ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Public Procurement is one of the very important laws discussed in this House, we spoke yesterday, we will also talk today about how much public procurement is a source of corruption and crime in public enterprises, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in many places where this law is applied, or where public procurement is being done, and in fact the law is not being applied. The government of the Republic of Serbia obviously has a very unserious relationship when it comes to this law and the National Assembly. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you just said who you invited to attend on behalf of the government in this session. The one you call and who attends here can only record possible objections from the MPs, but cannot communicate with the MPs, especially when it comes to amendments, or debates about the law in particular, because the proposing representative may, on behalf of the promoter, accept or explain further why he does not want to or cannot accept it. We already have a third minister here. We have nothing against the presence of all ministers when it comes to any law, the better the more present ministers, the better, in fact, is their obligation, but from the government we have received that the representative for this law is Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic. Yesterday she appeared, after her, she was very brief, Mrs Kalanovic, I guess she came only to read an open letter to Mladjan Dinkic, to introduce Serbia's public to his decision. We have Mr. Chiplic today. The Government has to inform us, we have to act all in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, that I distracted yesterday, the Rules of Procedure refer to both the MPs and all those present in this session. We, in accordance with Article 87, must have an authorised proposing representative here. The draft law on public procurement is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has authorised Mrs Diana Dragutinovic to represent the law in the National Assembly. Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, or to receive in writing the government's authority for Mr. Chiplic to represent this law or to get an authorised representative. Without an authorised representative, there is no debate on the law in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10167	Thank you. We will multiply the authority that the promoter, therefore the Government, has sent to the Assembly by authorising Mr. Chiplic to be present and we will share. Do you agree that we continue to work while the technical part of the job is done, to multiply? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I assume you've met the amendment I've submitted, perhaps you'll accept it by the end of my argument, I suppose. But here is the government's relationship, with these variations who will at any time represent the government and in what context, says how serious you are in principle and how interested you are in dealing with this area, which is objectively serious, in an adequate way as it deserves it. With my amendment, I provided for Article 45, paragraph 3 of the amendment. The main point of the amendment is to shorten the time necessary for the delivery of evidence by the bidder whose offer has been assessed as the most favourable. If you look at the reason, that is, the reasons for this law, it says that there is a need for law-making in order to remove the shortcomings observed in the practical application of the law. When you look at this, objectively when it comes to the practical application of the Public Procurement Act in practice, the only and most important problem that can be solved administratively, means, through law or through amendments, are deadlines. All of you, who have possibly been in your practice, political or business, however, had the opportunity to face public procurement, you know that there have been cases, let's say, that the procedure, or the time of the public procurement process, is almost half of the work that is needed for the realization of the project to which this public procurement applies. I think all those amendments that are in the context of deadline cuts make sense, I think they should be accepted. I repeat, only these things are possible and resolved by administrative means, i.e. by law or possibly amendments. All other things, which represent anomalies in public procurement procedures, cannot be solved by any written document. They, above all, depend on the tendency of people who participate in public procurement procedures, on their manners. I think that in Serbia, in the last eight years, this area has been discredited. They were people of suspicious manners and proclivities. You had a chance a few days ago to listen, through the means of public information, that the abuse of these areas was at the Ministry of the Interior. If people have freedom, or they don't care, they go this far, what remains for other areas of our public, economic and social life. I believe that people for the last eight years, who have been the bearers of these jobs, are basically part of a political concept that has drawn its economic support precisely in public procurement abuses. There's a lot of examples for that. I'm going to go through one particular example later on, and I'm going to try one plastic way to bring you closer to the abuses that you're aware of, but obviously you're not ready to respond adequately, which you're not objectively going to react to. That I'm right, he says a lot in practice, especially a report by some organisations that put this country in the 85th place perception index. I think we share a place with Albania in the environment. What is devastating is the fact that, since we have been pursuing European standards, this index has fallen and tended to decline compared to the previous year. What in this context, too, should be said, is the fact that there is no government's determination to deal with these problems because of the fact that the State Audit Institute is not working for us. The state audit institution is one of the mechanisms for public spending control. You could have, at least by putting it into operation, shown the definition of controlling public procurement in one rational and correct way. On the other hand, I asked Mrs Dragutinovic, and she did not give me an answer, nor did I get an answer in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, and I asked her why the government has not sent in the last five or six years, or why does the Assembly not adopt the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget from the previous year? So these are mechanisms which objectively public spending, the spending of the Republic of Serbia's budget, or the money of Serbian citizens, have been controlled, but they are not in office. Then you're trying on all of us and the public in Serbia to make an impression on how by law and by introducing so-called. European regulations in the Public Procurement Act want you to resolve this area properly, i.e. to affirm, remove any anomalies that are certainly present. I'm going to look at one example from practice. Yesterday I had a chance to receive two or three delegations, I was in that group that received two or three delegations. One of them's from "The Tribute," people are complaining about some problems; others are from "Becca." I talked to people, they complained and brought me documents for some public procurement. I won't mention names in these examples that possibly any of you, or anyone in the public who listens and watches, could not qualify me as biased, or put myself aside for anyone. I'll talk about procedure, numbers, manners, and you can tell if what I'm saying makes sense and whether it's in the context of what I've said so far. In fact, state institutions are certainly responsible for getting to know everything, but the reaction is lagging behind. This public procurement was carried out by a state-owned institution, a state body. It has to do with the ministry, or the NIP. I would be glad to have Mrs Kalanovic here, as she spoke so theatrically yesterday about how they were fighting for Serbia, for Serbia's interests, etc. Now look at the interests of Serbia. Namely, a state institution has called public procurement, or a call for some construction works. The value of the job is about 120 million dinars. The public invitation came to six offers and all offers, other than two, were assessed as incomplete. So, two were right, and all the others were wrong. Interestingly, one offer, of these two correct ones, was higher by 30 million dinars, which is more than 25% of the value of the whole job. But the commission that conducted the procurement decided anyway on this expensive one. Those who were second-placed complained, the commission didn't appreciate it. She's assigned a job to this one that's more expensive for 30 million dinars. They're ready to sign the contracts. Meanwhile, the second-placed complained to the Commission for the protection of the tenderers. The Commission examined the documents and concluded that the documentation of the person to whom the job was assigned was invalid. So, watch out, the wrong paperwork has closed its eyes, which may be scarier than the fact that the job costs 30 million dinars. Then, due to the obligations sought and insisted by the competent state institutions, they annulled public procurement. Meanwhile, arrangements and concepts were made as to how we will and what we will do and public procurement was re-scheduled. Some firms called again and two of the same firms remain in the game again. Watch out now, the company that got the job on the first tour has now offered less than 15 million for the same job. So now the second-placed was only $15 million. Probably, by doing so, the commission assigned a job to the same firm again. But although the second-placed offer, as the Public Procurement Act provides for in Article 52, for example, since nothing drastic has changed, the criteria for assessing offers are the most economically favourable offer and the lowest price offered, are both not respected. The second-placed had a lower price, and all the economic criteria that you had foreseen here, or which are legally foreseen, which were offered the price, the terms of payment and the deadline of delivery or the execution of services, were superior, i.e. they were better and better quality than the company that got the job. However, what those who were investors, which objectively, in accordance with the law, had come to their senses, had the right -- they prescribed additional conditions. Of these additional conditions, none of these 12 are present. But they've made a submission by assigning a job to whoever they want, for whom they have an interest in getting a job. The fact that 15 million will blow up obviously didn't touch anyone. It's people's money, state money, who cares and who else cares? Here is an indicative one, that the state has not responded to the fact that in different offers for one and the same business offers of one company varying 15 million. It's not $100,000 or a million dinars, it's 15 million and it's not interested in anyone. You see, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, such phenomena, such inclinations and manners of the law cannot be changed, by law you cannot absorb from the field of public procurement. Unfortunately, my amendment I suppose you won't accept, Mr. Minister, you don't know what it's all about, but in any case, the concept it provides wouldn't compromise, it would even be in the function of rationality and efficiency of public procurement procedures, but I repeat, I believe that your intentions are not sincere and I believe that with one such approach and approach that I took through this example nothing will be different than the times behind us, at least when it comes to public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10169	National MP Miroslav Markicevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10170	Dear Vice-Presidents and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, respected ministers, I call on Article 225 and 226, as I need one very important promise, i.e. a notice, and I think thousands of citizens in Serbia, and especially since today we have a minister of human and minority rights here, a minister who wanted to discipline lawmakers, to fire them, to kick them out of the assembly. Mr. Minister, the moment has come, the devil has not given you peace, but you have come to the Assembly to tell you that you are now sitting here in the bench as a student in front of the MPs, in front of the National Assembly, that you, as the former judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, did not know the authority of certain state authorities. We chose you. I must tell you that you have been the subject of former consultations between all parliamentary groups and have all agreed, including the party that proposed you as minister, that you have made a statement that really has nothing to do with the truth and culture, or civilization. That's not why I came out here, but Madam Vice President, to ask you again, since I asked you one question on December 3rd, all of Serbia knows what the MPs of the NS are going to talk about all day, about this famous 12 million dinar amendment to build a playground for the disabled, so I ask you, Mr. Minister, as soon as I get off the phone, because we're playing deaf phones here, because for days there's no response from the government, did you read the budget rebalance, do you think the disabled are one minority group, fortunately in our country, what have you done under that amendment, which says that 12 million dinars should be invested in building a playground for persons with special purposes? So, personally, as a man, I'll be happy to say-- we're working on it. It is not true that the vault works until December 12th, some of you will receive bonuses on December 31st, if it can be for you, it can also be for disabled people. So I expect you to come out here and honestly tell you, we'll be happy to say-- we're working on it, we'll do something by the end of the fiscal year so that that money doesn't go away. It was accepted by everyone and it wasn't just the amendment of the NS MPs, it was this whole assembly, that we all here together in front of these people don't get in the way. Please, welcome to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10171	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected chairman, respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers, of course they support New Serbia, this amendment of Dragan Stevanovic, the amendment certainly needs to be accepted, the amendment is comprehensive. Of course we also have to agree with SRS MP Verica Radeta saying that these flying changes that are happening in the Serbian Parliament cannot be accepted. It's absolutely unacceptable that, practically, in one day or from one hour to the next, the ministers are being replaced here, as if they were God's days, as if they were completely professional in all of this on the agenda. We had Minister Dragutinović first, so Minister Verica Kalanovic, here is Mr Chiplic now, but there is also some good in everything. As Minister of Human and Minority Rights, I want to support what the deputy head of the NS parliamentary group, Mr Markicevic, said here. Mr. Minister, we had here at the end of October, when there was a budget rebalance, a real struggle to support our amendment with disability, people with damages, both innate and those who were injured in traffic, we suffered in wars, and of course we accepted, since yesterday you weren't, to repeat, that in one part of the amendment we were wrong, although we didn't think we were, but we accepted that the mistake might have been from one single goal to achieve those 12 million for those people. We made it as a Parliament club, and we're extremely pleased, we've managed to secure 12 million for these people. Since public procurement is on the agenda here today, it is totally unacceptable that in early December we have received only one notice that it simply has to be implemented by December 12th. It remains unclear how someone can do something like that in nine days. Since you are the Minister of Human Rights, indeed as a man, as a citizen of Serbia, as a man who has been addressed by disabled people from the Kingdom, from Raška County, of course you have been addressed by disabled people from the Moravia County, and from other parts of Serbia, very pleased with what we have been able to do, to show a little bit of human spirit, warmth, one care about these people, and we have asked the question yesterday of the finance minister, and today we ask you: Please come out for a pay phone, because we ask that this money is not a dead letter on paper, to find any solution that this money does not fail. So we're asking you to answer that these funds will be used. We have to think about these people. These people are sick enough to think about these people in this country. You've certainly seen that Paralympic in China, which was held after that official Olympics, and you've seen the will that's in these people, how much there's a desire to get involved in everything that we, who don't have such problems, do every day practically. Mr. Minister, I think it's your turn to tell us as a representative of the government that these funds will be used. There's got to be a modus for that. There, on six of some sites, if divided, these are small public procurements, practically, and very soon we will solve all problems and NS MPs will certainly not go out on these things anymore. But we ask you to come out here and all this Mr. Markicevic said, all the MPs of the NS are not going to give up this pay phone until the government adequately answers what will happen to this money, because it is unacceptable, I repeat once again, that within seven days something will end, that practically the whole November will fail. We agreed. We accepted that one part of the amendment might even have been wrong, but we didn't all make a mistake, but, well, so that we wouldn't have a problem, so that this money didn't fail, we accepted part of the mistake. Of course, a full consensus has been reached here. We thank the Vice President of the Assembly, Gordani Komic, who supported us in this. So there's no party story here, there's a human story here, there's something we have to do for people who have such problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10173	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10174	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister, only in favour of the amendment by my colleague Stevanovic, while referring to the presentation of my party colleague, and on the amendments we have submitted, which has been accepted to the budget rebalance. In addition to this story, only one short telegram that we have received as a parliamentary group and which binds us, and I think the ruling majority, that this amendment, so adopted, is being realized to the end and that we have very little time to follow this whole story: "Dear MPs, we sincerely thank you for the understanding you have shown for those with special needs, submitting an amendment that provides for the allocation of 12 million dinars to build sports grounds for us. Look into that human struggle. We're not often in a position to stand up for ourselves in this way. ''The Sombor Multiple Sclerosis Association. This is something that binds us, both the left and the right, and I don't think there are any MPs who think otherwise, we just need to win this battle with time and get these funds where they're meant.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10175	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the amendment to Parliament's 47th member, Zoran Bortic. The government and the Financial Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. As regards the response to one intervention per article. The 225th and 226, the other two are from the discussion of the MPs of the NS Group, only to MP Miroslav Markic, to say that I will repeat my personal request to the Ministry of Finance to respond to the MP during the day. What I find absolutely amazing is that the 12 million funds, which have been transferred by the amendment of the MPs from the NS parliamentary group, and by the vote of all MPs, from the budget reserves to the position of sports courts, to remain unexploited and unfulfilled, I find that absolutely amazing. For discussions of your colleagues, I cannot answer, because it was within the time period intended for discussion in particular, and according to the amendment. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days we are witnessing a big debate, especially about this law on public procurement, but also a set of laws on justice. We Serbian radicals believe that there are much more important topics, burning topics, which need to be debated, and above all we need to discuss the issue of deployment of Eulex to KIM. You are witnessing these days that the UN soldiers are missing in KIM and there is taking up the position of a whole other army, an army that is outside resolution 1244. There are even more important topics related to the very life of Serbian citizens after this economic coup and collapse, but unfortunately, you all have much more pressing work to do, which is to adopt laws that will change nothing in the state of Serbia or make life easier for Serbian citizens. One of these laws is the law on public procurement, which provides a lot of space for various speculations, machinations, corruption. You've heard about the amount of money, about two billion euros that will be spent through this bill, but there's a lot of room left for those in charge who, starting with the formation of commissions, and up to the choice of contractors, there's also a chance for various machinations and speculations. We, Serbian radicals, have submitted a series of amendments with the goal of repairing what can be fixed, but unfortunately we see that our amendments are not accepted, and as far as I can see only because they are the amendments of the SRS. Otherwise, there's no other reason. I have submitted an amendment to Article 55(3) of this Law, where heading 3 is amended, and that is, the bidder who accepts the application for an extension of the bid cannot change the offer - I asked him to stand - cannot change any element of the offer. I'd like the minister to come out and explain why the amendment is not accepted, which are the reasons, because there's only one thing that's being specified here, that's to say the possibility of manipulating the person who's making the offer. It is only a reason that the amendments of the SRS are not accepted, because in this way they only want to limit the possibility of narrowing down space for various incriminating actions, which are mainly carried out through public procurement laws. That's why I think this law is no better than the previous law, but, well, it's only to be passed in order to have room for various criminal acts. If we have information that about 10,000 contracts are not delivered annually to the competent administration, then I don't see the purpose of why this law should be amended and passed at all, if the provisions of the previous law are not respected, let alone this. It's a special story that in these competitions and contracts they get privileged company jobs, i.e. those companies that are governmental favorites, at the level of the Republic of Serbia or the level of local self-government. In that sense, I think my amendment to Article 55(3) should be accepted, as well as all other amendments to the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10177	Thank you. Mr. Lapchevic, did you answer the amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10178	Dear President, Mr. Minister, I have been asking the question here four times over the past few weeks -- when will the State Auditing Institution get its long-promised premises, both promised and assigned through the media by the Prime Minister. It is fortunate that today, in the debate on amendments to this law in front of the government, there is a Minister of Human and Minority Rights present who, by chance, is exactly the person who needs to leave the premises with his ministry for the State Auditing Institution. Since I haven't received an answer to that question three weeks after I asked him, please, Madam President, to answer my question - was it forwarded to the Government and when will I get the answer to that question? I ask Mr. Chiplic - what is the reason why he, with his ministry, does not want to leave the premises for the State Auditing Institution, is this his personal whim or agreement with the Prime Minister, who, through the media, will assign that space to the most important institution to control the budget of the Republic of Serbia, budget users, but also the public procurement that we are talking about today, or is that perhaps the reason why it should be delayed, that this thing be extended through the media, and that the law on public procurement is adopted, the budget to be adopted, and the State Auditing Institution will not control the huge state money that passes through the hands of the budget users? I ask you to answer me why you don't want to leave this space and whether it's your personal whim or if it's an agreement with the Prime Minister, that what the citizens of Serbia set out in the Republic of Serbia's budget goes beyond their means, and that those in charge of it can't do it, because the executive government won't let them do it, wanting to get themselves probably some benefit from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10179	Your question has been passed, of course. Mrs. Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 55. The proposal for a law on public procurement refers to the validity of the offer. In the third position of Article 55, point (a) is replaced by the The proposal for a law states that the tenderer who accepts the request to extend the period of validity of the offer cannot change the offer. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, counterpart Milan Veseinovic suggested that item 3 is that the bidder who accepts the request for an extension of the bid cannot change any element of the offer. The amendment is indeed, as can be seen, with the intention to specify this legal provision, to specify the obligations of the bidder who has accepted the request to extend the time limit of the offer and to prevent any kind of abuse. Most of the amendments to the SRS to this law are, in that very sense, not our intention to change something fundamentally in this law, because I will repeat what I said yesterday, and we think that this law, whatever it is, is good enough to prevent its application from corruption and crime at the top of the government and in public enterprises. If you're changing it and making a new law, then it would really be good for the legal standards in that law to be precise, concise, clear and that we can only avoid abuses, self-will, and crime and corruption in the field of public procurement to the minimum. Yesterday, counterpart Krasic reminded of the adoption of the Law on Public Procurement in 2002, when the law was presented as an epochal discovery, something that would eradicate corruption, crime, the best law on the globe in Serbia. Indeed, the real question is what is so bad about this law now that the same ones who proposed it and adopted it in 2002, in 2008, think it's so bad that it can't even change or supplement it, but it has to be passed a whole new law. We have nothing against it, the government has its own concept and, of course, it will represent it in parliament, but since the time has passed that you, Madam President of Parliament, promised, has been 35 minutes, we have not yet received the government's consent that the law here represents Minister Ciplic. Now I'm going to say something that is actually more about Mr. Chiplic's portfolio, and that of human rights, since we Serbian radicals believe that there are no minority rights at risk in Serbia, that they are guaranteed by the Constitution, and that indeed the state authorities should make sure that these rights are not in any way compromised. We have received a letter signed with – former security workers of the Southpetrol. Very interestingly, in addition to that letter, we received a copy of the labor contract, which, of course, I will explain, which is about what the minister would conclude with the MPs, given Mr. Chiplic's views that the MPs are a hired workforce, and you would be a good employer, so you would slap the MPs, now you can enter the hall, but you can't, but that's not the subject, maybe you'll really be the law you were talking about to propose to us, and then we'll talk about it. So, this group of workers says -- we are asking you to inform the Serbian public from the assembly booth that, under the orders of NIS Director Milos Saramandic, on 1 December 2008, more than 1,000 workers employed in NIS Petrol Jugopetrol were dismissed. So, this is quite the opposite of what Boris Tadic on Saturday's tide asked all the employees to guard their jobs, and here you can see when his DS director, Milos Saramandic, fired 1,000 workers in NIS Petrol Jugopetrol on December 1st, they do not have the opportunity to save their jobs. They say -- that tragedy is greater, they all worked through the company Security "Vračar" years ago for a month's miserable compensation from the shameful 11,000 dinars. Despite the fact that they have been fainting from hunger, they have done their job safely and correctly, hoping for constant employment, believing that work is appreciated in this country. Meanwhile, Milos Saramandic, as well as his predecessors, on the one hand, reduced the number of constantly employed workers on the basis of the social programme, while on the other hand employed the women and friends of his party colleagues. We're the only ones who've been acting as small-time business costs for the Southpetrol. Imagine the way they treated the employees in Southpetrol. The money was for apartments, cars, travels, schooling of countless directors and advisors, who didn't even have to come to work, representation, introducing a new SAP programme, getting everything and everything. The questions of these workers are: if there are extra workers in the NIS, why or who has it been necessary to hire so many workers through the Safety “Vračar”? Last year there were over 1,300 at the level of all business organisations. The second question is, how much money is paid to the safety of "The Witch" per worker? Third, what is the business relationship between public enterprises and the Director of Security "Vračar" Mirko Djurovic? Four, what makes Mr. Saramandic's salary so positious now that he's firing these 1,000 workers? Fifth, why, suddenly, the high speed of documentation and the seat of the Security "Vračar" from Cerska 76 is being moved to the Jerkovic Brothers? Six, did Mr. Saramandić, like his predecessors, always make such favourable and lucrative deals and thus deserve to earn within a month because we can't do it for five years? To conclude, say workers -- a good director of a prestigious company like NIS, a member of the DS, who will bring us into the EU, which will root out corruption in the country of Serbia, of course, this is all ironic, carried out by great work and even better profit, without taking into account anyone's self-respect, forgot that this auxiliary workforce, as they called it, while exploiting it and "adequately rewarding it", did not carry out funny jobs written in the labour contract. The labour contract says in Article 1 – the employee performs the work of the auxiliary administrative and technical PO, for which a fourth degree of professional training is required. Short description of the job. Now you will see why these security workers seem to be running out of time, I end up in 15 seconds, treating the small business costs of Southpetrol; to give them the lowest possible coefficient of 2.40, because in a short description of the job they said they were doing photocopying, delaying, or archiving various documentation, delivering mail to other organisational parts, preparing documentation for booking, performing auxiliary tasks in the field of automatic data processing and accounting. So, Mr. Minister, this is for both you and your colleague, Rasim Ljajic, all these questions you will get, certainly, from the congregation service and I ask you to make sure you get the right information and answer us - how are these people, unfortunately, they are now getting fired, but will come some new, could do the physical and technical security work with this job description? This is completely contrary to the Labour Act. This is the gravest violation of the rights of workers, the gravest violation of human rights. Please answer this question within the jurisdiction of your ministry and Mr Ljajic. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, since we still do not have the authority for Mr. Ciplic to represent the law on public procurement, please take a break. It's nothing personal, Mr. Chiplet, you'll probably be excellent at representing this law, but only the government has to confirm it to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10181	Mr. Lapcevic wants to do business. I have a notice from professional services that every moment should arrive, apparently my assessment that this was technically possible in half an hour was inadequate, while they were given a warrant, while they were working, working. I have an insight into how he's multiplying and that he'll be here any minute. Let's at least finish advertising the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10182	Madam Chairman, I am reporting under Article 104 because I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Ten minutes ago, I asked a very specific question to Mr. Chiplic and gave a reasonable 10 minutes to have a man come up with an answer and come out here. Half an hour ago Mr Markicevic asked a similar question, no answer was received. Do you, Mr. Minister, think we're not worthy of you coming out here and answering specific questions? Do you feel that these 250 MPs do not deserve you to answer specific questions here? Do you think that seven million Serbian citizens, who pay taxes to this country, all of whom, including yourselves, live and spend that money, have no right to answer - when will those who are legally obliged to control the budget be able to move into the premises they are assigned to? Why don't you answer that question? If you don't want to answer questions about public procurement here, and you represent the Government, why don't you answer these questions that you know, which are directly your concern? Are you also an accomplice to this dirty game to waste the budget uncontrollably and to those who are legally in charge of doing their job? The contest for state auditors is over. They enter duty 1.1.2009. Rest assured, if you do not empty the premises that are intended for the audit institution or are not assigned to others, in the next 15 days you will have 50 people in front of the government, state auditors, together with the President and members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, so let the confusion in Europe that Serbia does not want to allow the institution to control its budget and that ministers and directly the Government want to behave and spend state money without being controlled. It will be a struggle to reduce corruption in Serbia. It will be a struggle for Serbia to climb which ladder is worse than those countries that are not high on the anti-corruption scale. It will be the best signal that this country goes forward. I'm asking you to say, why are you acting like this? Why isn't the State Audit Authority allowed to enter its premises? If you do not respond or give an answer that is not adequate, we will believe that the government directly influences the budget of Serbian citizens to be uncontrollably spent, not allowing that institution which is legally competent to do its job.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10183	Thank you. The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Chiplet. I ask you to behave in harmony with the dignity of the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10184	Dear Members of Parliament and honourable MPs, my address to you was, in fact, just for a moment waiting for the government's authority to arrive, and in that sense, I have no doubt that I can answer those questions that I have right now, and those questions that I need to consult on the moment we get an answer. In fact, the first question really requires consultations, in terms of which is the exact date when people with disabilities, what is agreed on and for which there is no problem that will be paid, it will be done, because from this pay phone I should not give any wrong information, and information is important to all of us and it is accurate information. The room thing is extremely banal and I personally think you could get that answer out of this pay phone. In fact, it was that at the moment when this government was formed, in addition to some unusual problems, it was only a problem that came from a period of the previous two governments, which is that there was no clear and accurate insight into who was in which rooms. The Ministry of Human and Minority Rights has inherited the premises of the Human and Minority Rights Service. However, part of those premises that we inherited belong not only to us, but also to the MUP, the Staff Management Service and, I think, part of the KIM Ministry. Since there was no clear insight into this, realistic insight, after we received notice that in 15 out of 30 rooms the State Audit Committee had moved in, we, of course, wanted to respect it, realized that in the part of the room we were not at all. The spaces are numbered exactly by number. So, part of those rooms we don't hold at all. On the other hand, it was completely impossible to move people out, not to move anywhere else. When I say that the situation is not dramatic, it means finding a solution, i.e. finding rooms that were led in the previous and previous government in order to find a system solution: connected rooms with all adequate space. I can't give someone room, nor can I stop someone from entering this room. Simply, only part of the communication between me, that is, between the Ministry of My Service and the competent state service you had in mind. The second part about where to move people, where to move to the archives, and when we identified that out of those 15 rooms, even though they're being run on our behalf, we're not just sitting here, then it actually showed how much more complex the problem is. Far from being established by the State Audit Institute, which was established under the 2006 Constitution, there should also be no room at the end of 2008. We're actually trying to solve the problem that should have been solved earlier within 3-4 months, but that problem will definitely be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10185	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Lapcevic is reporting again to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10186	Thank you, Mr. Chiplet. If what you said is true, I suppose it is, then it must be realized that the Prime Minister has also deceived the Auditory institution, both us MPs and the public. On 9 October, two months ago and more than that, he said the problem with the premises of the State Auditing Institution was solved, that they were assigned and that the process of immigration was under way. That, sir of the fourth order, you can read, enter site B92, find the news of October 9th and read that statement by the Prime Minister. I'm just quoting. On this basis, it can be concluded who's actually telling the truth and what's the problem. I believe it is a problem, but I can't believe that someone representing the Serbian government can make such a statement that the job is done and that it's still looking for a solution. A solution can be sought for two days, and two months and two years. It is impossible in two months that the problem cannot be solved in a more adequate way. Those people are not looking for what I don't know, but it's impossible for a dozen people, who are now operating in the State Auditing Institution and 50 who are due to take office on January 1st, to sit in a federal hall and do their job. How are they gonna do it?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10187	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to Article 58. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10188	Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, the MP's club, have submitted an amendment to Article 58. Proposal for a law on public procurement. The amendment refers to Article 1 in which after the word "orderer can" the words "in the first phase of the restrictive and qualification procedure". The amendment determines at which stage of the procurement procedure the contracting authority may request further explanations from the tenderer, which is possible only in the first phase of the restrictive procedure or qualifications. In this way, any abuse and change of offers that have arrived in the open procedure would be avoided. The government has not accepted this amendment, with the reason that there is no reasonable reason to prevent the contracting authority from requesting further explanations in any procurement procedure from the tenderers regarding the supply of the offer. The previous Public Procurement Act was adopted in 2002, as it was said, and on the promise of the then Doss was to remove all accumulated problems and irregularities and corruption in the area of public procurement. Due to its inadequacy, the law was completed in the coming years, 2003, 2004, 2005. It has been said that it is not the essence of the law but is the essence of how people who run public procurement behave, it is related to the correctness and morality of people who do so. This is now another attempt to improve the new law of solutions that will allow public procurement providers to implement public procurement procedures faster and more effective protection of the rights of bidders. The legislator has prescribed that public procurement is considered to be any supply of goods, services or works by state authorities, institutions and organisations financed by public funds. The law applies to almost all state institutions, ministries, municipalities, public enterprises, etc. For public procurement, large funds are spent, and where money is the flower of corruption and lawlessness. In Serbia, about three billion euros per year for public procurement, about 250,000 contracts are being concluded, around 80,000 bidders and about 12,000 buyers are participating. An analysis of the current irregularities in the procurement procedure can be placed in two groups: under one, illegality in the preparation of competition documents, under two, illegality in the professional assessment of offers, weighting and points. The preparation of the tender documentation is often the subject of abuse, and this consists of the following: lack of competitive documentation, with clear instructions for supplying offers; deadlines for supplying offers inaccurately, mostly shorter than the legal deadline, which reduces the possibility for bidders to complete and deliver the correct offer; too much to buy out the competitive documentation, on the basis of which the offer is drawn up, so the bidder often gives up. There are plenty of papers, there are plenty of obligations that the bidder must fulfil, to meet all obligations towards the state, which are at some point and greater than public procurement is mentioned. There are often discriminatory conditions, these are requirements for the delivery of certificates of certain institutions, although other institutions do. Afterwards, the references of certain users, as well as the value of the contracts that have been realised. Where the contracting authority prescribes technical characteristics and dimensions of a particular device which is the subject of the procurement, it shall be written as to who should offer specific goods. Often, tenders are required to deliver samples of the offered product, as well as unreal short delivery deadlines, favoured by a specific bidder. What does delivery of samples mean? How's the bidder gonna know what the orderer's gonna do? If it's standard goods, it's known what it is, it's prescribed by regulations and standard goods are what they are. The bidder can take something from the store, offer and deceive the client. I was a participant when, upon request to deliver the samples, the offerer arranged the truck because the samples were heavy, so the commission had to go out to watch what was on the truck and what were the samples, so I don't think these samples were necessary in the public procurement process. It is common to abuse in determining the criteria and elements on which the offer is assessed and ranked. I'll list some irregularities. It is valued at a higher number of certification weights owned only by a specific bidder, which are essentially unnecessary from the point of view of specific procurement; the evaluation of certain professional references, which are also not relevant for the purchase; when the rating methodology is formed after the opening of the offer, is adjusted according to the favorite; it is often misused quality as a criterion because it is valued on the basis of the subjective assessment of the members of the commission, so often quality brings more than 50 points. These are some irregularities, so if we still introduce that the client can ask the bidder to request additional notices to help him value and compare the offer, it can be a good basis for irregularities. The use of additional explanations, as well as verifications of tenderers, may also be relevant in the restrictive and qualification process. In the first stage of the restrictive procedure, the contracting authority shall recognise the qualification of applicants on the basis of previously specified conditions. In this process, he can see, and also visit the bidder, familiarize with all the essential elements that can be related to public procurement. I would also refer to Article 3 of Article 58, which reads - the contracting authority may, with the agreement of the tenderer, make the corrections of the accounting error observed when considering the completion of the tender opening process. I think this attitude should be erased because of possible abuse. A computer error can be real, and it can be intentional, so that when an offer is opened it can be interpreted ambiguously, by correcting how the favorite fits. The law provides for the Public Procurement Administration, which performs professional activities in the area of public procurement and should ensure the efficient, transparent use of public financial resources for public procurement. The administration shall carry out the preparation of public procurement regulations, provide advice to the contracting authority and the tenderer, monitor the procurement procedure, issue certificates to public procurement officers, and keep records of public procurement. The law also provides for the introduction of a public procurement officer, who is a permanent employee of the contracting authority and who is trained to carry out public procurement operations, for which he received a certificate. The contracting authority may, if necessary, determine a number of public procurement officers. This will increase the number of administrative workers, will also increase budget costs, i.e. public spending. In view of the above, as well as the fact that public procurement will be carried out by certified experts trained in the management of public procurement, it is then excessively possible to provide additional notices from bidders, which may be the cause of abuse. That is why it is necessary for the Government to accept this amendment. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10189	Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Radeta. You've got six and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another amendment for which there is no logical explanation why it is not accepted. Mr. Chipplic, I suppose, now that you are officially authorized to represent this law, you will understand that this is indeed one meaningful and useful, first of all, amendment. It refers to Article 58(1) and Article 58. The proposal for a law on public procurement speaks of further explanations, controls and permitted corrections. Article 1 states: "The client may request further explanations from the bidder to assist him in the examination, evaluation and comparison of offers, and may also exercise control (inspection) of the bidder, or its manufacturer". The amendment proposed that the 1st position was that the client could further request further explanations from the bidder in the first phase of the restrictive and qualification procedure, etc. The amendment, apparently, determines at which stage of the procurement procedure the contracting authority may request further explanations from the tenderer, which is possible only in the first phase of the restrictive and qualification procedure. I guess that's clear. The adoption of this amendment would avoid any abuse and change of offers that have arrived in the open procedure. Why is this necessary? Because you know that public procurement is a source, unfortunately, of great corruption at all levels and that, when a new law is passed, that law must be so – you know, you have experience and as a judge of the Constitutional Court as much as it means when the legal norm is concise, precise, accurate and clear enough – that it does not leave the possibility of abuse, to leave as little discretionary application as possible. This attitude has another failure, because it says the client can request it. Anyone can, in the legal norm is something that leaves the possibility of "can" and "must," and it doesn't have to be, and that's not good. The legislator should forget the word "can" in the law. Whenever you say there's something you can do, there's gonna be someone who's gonna find the one who's supposed to be able to do it, actually, not take advantage of it. There's something from your department's resolution, and it's about the application of the Labour Act. Do you know how much this Labour Act has? The employer can determine and make compensation for a warm meal. The employer can pay the regress for the vacation. The employer can work overtime. The employer can, can, can. I'm sure the Ministry is filled with such remarks. We in the SRS parliamentary group have a large number of such objections. Anything an employer can, an employer, actually doesn't, because he doesn't have to. It is in his interest that the worker is costing him as little as possible and from an employer's point of view it is completely legitimate, but the state, especially you, as you like to say, socially responsible government, must make sure that employees in such difficult times must have state protection, and it is difficult to provide, you will admit, state protection if you do not have a law that the employer commits. You have in time passed the Labour Act which is exclusively in the interests of employers and one group that makes up the ruling coalition and which, in the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, swore that the first task or one of the priorities of this new government would be exactly the new labour law, but the election promises are, unfortunately, easily and quickly forgotten. It is enough that one who promises to do something in the interest of all or in the interest of a group, in this case the interests of the employees, will get something in his own personal interest and forget the promises. That is why we are here to remind you, and I would ask you that this Government's argument on the amendment of counterpart Milan Nikolic, and the reason is that the amendment is not accepted because there is no reasonable reason to make it impossible for the contracting authority to request an additional explanation in any procurement procedure from the bidder regarding the supply offer, to explain it more precisely. You know, if the government tells us that there is no valid reason, and we have argued in the amendment which is justified reasons, then this is the government's argument, at least, irresponsiblely, irresponsiblely, and represents a mockery of Parliament and of the MPs. We therefore insist that the Rules of Procedure be respected and that the Government's authorised proponent sits here with us. I am convinced that you will now explain to us what this means that there are no valid reasons, or what specifically led the Government not to accept this amendment, which, quite certainly, greatly improves the text of this article, and hence the whole law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10191	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 58. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 58(3). The proposal for a law on public procurement, which I asked for "with the agreement of the bidder" to be replaced by the words "in the informing of the bidder". We all know, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, not only as MPs but also all citizens, that the most important, the most important and important things in international internal relations are actually being done in secret. We know what the secret services of the United States and Great Britain are doing, etc. Public and secret procurement of goods, and services and performance of works and rights related to a personal name, are done and implemented throughout the world, including with us, in an unauthorized way. Just to remind you, he's recently a senator from Illinois Milorad Rod Blagojevic has only been arrested for trying or having already done so to sell his personal right, it's a senatorial place to someone, and he's been arrested for it. What are we doing here? As the rule of law and civilised countries operate, and here the regime is in power, in a specific case the SRS, led by Boris Tadic secretly acquired parliamentary mandates. What did I say? Boris Tadic, president of Serbia, in the case of the SRS, I said well, in the case of the SRS, when by secret procurement and the availability of the parliamentary mandates of our former radicals, without speaking further, the EU and Javier Solana, who secretly separated 200m euros in order to break up the SRS and buy a number of people from the SRS. We have an example, it hasn't been voted on yet, there's been a debate here both in principle and in detail on a set of judicial laws. That's what we all know in public, that's what the people know and the citizens have a chance to hear. But it is secretly a matter of threats to judges and other members of the judicial authorities, and I mean prosecutors and judges for violations, about how they will be placed, how when the time comes for re-election will be a threat to remain in their seats. We have an example, and from this pay phone, it's not the first time I've talked about it, that there's a terrible pressure and threats to the judges of the District Court in Nis for the case in Aleksinac to respect the complaint of the dissatisfied party and to annul SO Alexinac's decision, because we were able to prevent the introduction of a forced administration, temporary measures, and thus enable the citizens of the Aleksinec municipality to do what was done and what was in the May 11th election. We have half-secret purchases, that is, buying a barracks in Alexinco. The owner of the barracks is, in fact, the owner of all of Serbia, the owner of the Delta Company. While I'm someone else, just this, it's half-publicly sold Nisexpress for only three million and 270 thousand euros. They say, and mostly those who are workers in Nisexpress, that only tires on those vehicles, and these are 500 buses and 14 trucks, are worth more than that price of selling Nisexpress. Major abuses are at stake when it comes to the procurement and implementation of the procurement law. Since 2002, the law, which has been changed several times, has not been implemented on the ground, or fully implemented, because we have not had honest and honorable people who have done so, both in these supplies of goods and in the provision of services, especially in the performance of works. For example, I don't want to waste my time with my colleagues, an example of Diffens Road about construction, reconstruction and revitalization of roads. We have another example, same from this area, when from December 2001 to February 2002 there was a vertical signalling at Ražna on the highway and in three months the state knows how much money it gave to that future contractor. Unfortunately, as a layman in that area, I believe that was precisely why there was a tragic accident, where he was, and I think he was the Deputy Prime Minister of the DSS Aleksandar Pradic, had a serious car accident, and I think, with an apology for mentioning this tragic case, that the driver in that accident had died. A common change of asphalt on the roads, along with public or secret procurement, not to mention the patching of holes on the highway immediately after the change of the entire area on those parts. Abuses are common in public procurement. We have an example from 2002, where it's been spoken publicly, where a member of the government has misappropriated public procurement issues, food goods, chemical goods, even construction works, where we have information about prices, types of goods, etc. As regards this amendment in particular, to make it clear that in this case, especially what is the legislator, which is the Government, says in an explanation - to implement this law and to allow public procurement providers to carry out public procurement procedures faster. On this case, Article 3, Article 58, the position where we intervened with this amendment that I have submitted, is exactly the opposite. It is required that bidders agree on certain technical corrections, whether they are mathematical errors, whether they are errors in addition, confiscation, etc. There is no efficiency if consent is sought by the tenderer to correct these errors in the offer. The amendment says that's exactly what the orderer is saying to make those technical mistakes. I'm going to banalize things, if by technical error the bidder has stated that two and two are five, and not four, it takes the client's consent to seek to correct that error by the bidder, time goes by in writing to correct the error of the bidder. I banalize things, it's about much more complex mathematical operations to determine the price of works, works, sketches, programs, etc. This slows the efficiency of realisation of public procurement, regardless of whether it is services, good, goods or certain works. Given that it is a matter of technical error, I believe it is celery and justified that the proposing representative, Mr. Ciplic, accepts this amendment because it is not a matter of Crucial, Essential changes in the text of the amendments. It is mostly about technical changes to this amendment, but it can save a lot of time in practice, so that something that ends sooner, and it is about the deadline, whether it's the season for the performance of works or about the purchase of food products, or anything that can be used effectively and speedily by the completion of work. So much, and the rest of the time the MPs of the SRS will say the same in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10193	Thank you. First of all, according to the Rules of Procedure, Ms Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Mr. Chipplic, you've been making statements to the media that it's an abuse of the work of the Assembly, but I think what's going on today, and I'm asking for information from the competent state authorities in the forest city of Arangelovac, is really disturbing for all citizens. That's why, and that's my information from the scene, in Pushkin's street, they find strong security forces for the Serbian police, so-called. The Savoys, with armored vehicles, surrounded a house where no one knows who lives or what they're looking for. The news has spread through the city that the arrest of General Ratko Mladic is under way and that it is one of the locations, in fact today, the one to which the MUP is headed. I ask for information, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, given that it is a city where peaceful people live, people who are and how they are affected by the overall economic situation in our country. Otherwise, Puskin's street is located near the Shamoth factory in Arangelovac, whose restructuring and extensive attempts by an incompetent government, one, the other, third, did not bear fruit, so these people are now left to themselves, because the state does not care about them. With their suffering, they still need things like this to happen and to be further harassed by the citizens. So, you who are on your way, I am not talking to you Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, because your president has tragically suffered in The Hague, but therefore ours, thank God, and his intelligence and determined defense, which you could see last night, will soon come to the country and will win The Hague caset, and for the killed Milosevic, and for the other 14 Serbs who died there, and for General Mladic. But don't do this, all over Serbia's cities every five days, because it doesn't lead to anything. If you think that this is what you are doing to your mentors, and if you think that this is how you are going to get to the famous Serbian general, whom we are all proud of, you are very wrong. I am convinced that General Ratko Mladic will know, as he has known so far, to preserve his head, and thus save his pride, and his military honor, and our dignity, and preserve not only our memory, but really our deep respect for all the victims who died in the country wars to defend the sacred Serbian countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10195	The word is by MP Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support my colleague Milovan Radovanovic's amendment. With about 50 amendments to the proposal for a law on public procurement, the SRS has tried to show you where you are wrong and how you are wrong in an area that, according to all indicators, is currently the most corrupt in Serbia. The fact is that you have accepted some of our suggestions and accepted, but you have accepted only those amendments that supplement this bill, and you have not shown the will to change anything in particular. This is also the case with my colleague Milovan Radovanovic's amendment from the SRS parliamentary group. A colleague, Radovanovic, submitted an amendment to Article 58 of the Law on Public Procurement by proposing that Article 58, paragraph 3, "with the agreement of the tenderers" be replaced by the words "with the information of the bidder". The SRS parliamentary group has tried to facilitate and, above all, to speed up the procurement procedure in a segment relating to any computer errors in the offer received by the client on time from the bidder who responded to the public call for participation in the tender. Therefore, when the opening of all offers received by the contracting authority is completed, for justified reasons, it may occur that an offer has an error resulting from the calculation of the price structure, which can ultimately be reflected at the level of the total price from the offer. In order to remove such a mistake, the legislator proposes to seek the consent of the bidder, while the SRS considers it sufficient to remove the error, while informing the bidder about it. However, the Serbian government has rejected the amendment with the reason that the orderer cannot voluntarily correct the offer's error, but that the correction must be confirmed by the bidder. It is clear that such a complicated procedure only stalls with the choice of the most favourable offer and wastes time needlessly. In doing so, the government of Serbia and the authors of this law did not have in mind what would happen in situations where the opening of bids is not attended by all representatives of the bidders, i.e. those who offer authority to represent them in the day, hour and minute when the opening of the offer is made. Does this mean that the customers or persons who have opened the tenders and have noticed any computer errors will suspend the evaluation and ranking process of the most favourable participants in the tender until the bidder, whose offer has a computer error, has put his initial and thus does not confirm that he is agreed to correct the error. What will happen when the authorised face of the bidder is not physically present at the opening of the offer? It can simply happen that this person is not present for justified reasons, and it can happen that the offerer's representative simply does not want to be present at the opening of the offer. Unfortunately, you did not foresee such a situation, but the situation was predicted by the SRS and for this reason we have submitted this amendment, but you either did not want to or did not want to understand it. Your initial solution will remain in force and in the voting day will likely get most of the 126 MPs, but we Serbian radicals ask you if in these cases the client will be able to provide the paraphras necessary to remove the ordinary error from the offer. We don't think so. This is why we warn you to put your vanity aside and accept this amendment submitted by counterpart Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10197	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Ljubenović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on public procurement in front of the SRS on Article 64. The general time limit for submission of tenders in the open procedure cannot be less than 30 days and is prescribed for Article 63, so much and too confusing is any reduction of this deadline in just eight days. Article 64 provides for the possibility of shortening the time limit in an open tender procedure up to 22 days after a public call has been made, in the event that the contracting authority is obliged to publish a prior discussion of the intention to carry out the procurement procedure, indicating three conditions which must be met. In point 2, unlike the applicable law, which states that the previous review is to be published for at least 52 days and not more than 12 months before the public call is made, the proposal states that the previous review should be published by the contracting authorities for at least 30 days and not more than 12 months before the public call is made. In point 3. The proposal is referred to as a condition to be delivered by the contracting authority and that it published in the previous examination all the information at its disposal at the time of dispatch. First of all, the question arises, how did the legislator come to the deadline of 22 days, which led him to determine this deadline? What I've previously realized is that it's a confusing reduction of this deadline itself in just eight days, which in some ways brings and I'm in doubt this deadline, because in some ways it's undefined. It could have been much more appropriate for 20-25 days or as in Article 63 to stay for 30 days. In point 2, the shortest time limit within which the contracting authority should publish a previous review before issuing a public call from 52 days has been reduced to 30 days. As in the specific case of large purchases, the question arises whether bidders can prepare a quality offer within such a short period of time. As regards the longest period within which the orderer is allowed to publish a previous discussion before the publication of a public call, which is 12 months, the same is too long and I consider it reasonable eight to ten months from the date of publication of the previous discussion until the date of publication of a public call in which the orderer would have the opportunity to prepare the documentation in a good way. However, as regards point 3, in which it is requested from the contracting authority that in the previous examination, it has published all the information that it had at its disposal at the time of dispatch, I believe that it should be deleted. Namely, the question arises who will carry out the check on the client whether he has published all the data he has, and in case he does not, what adverse consequences he is carrying. Assumption that the contracting authority and without setting this condition, and all in order to carry out the procurement process in quality, will publish all the information at its disposal until the time of publication of the request. In the case of large-scale public procurement in international transactions, such as direct or indirect provision of any material benefit or other value given to a public official who performs his legal duties, in order to obtain or maintain a job and to obtain any benefit, which is otherwise not subject to the general rules governing his work. There are few actions that cause public officials to be corrupt and create so many opportunities for corruption such as public procurement. At each level of government and all their organisational forms, supplies of goods and services shall be carried out. In each supply, there are at least two sides, each of them in many ways can spoil, corrupt the procurement process at each stage. Even if there's a bid on the bidder, it's still possible to favor someone. We have a situation, which the government has explained in the government's own member: "Positive bidders were able to get acquainted in advance with the offerer's requirements regarding public procurement and to make timely preparations for participation in the procurement process, and therefore there is a reasonable reason to shorten the time limit for supplying offers by the bidders from 30 to 22 days". I think in this case, I specifically apostrophe this part could. If I'm interested in one part of the tender, the example works in Subotica, Prepolje, Kickindi, so I don't list other places, and I'm from Leskovec, what does that mean? Is that how, at some point, I could have been informed adequately, conveniently, that I would be involved in that tender? For these reasons, I am just giving you some indicators to assess the integrity of the procurement process. These are: that all major procurements are advertised in a way that can attract the attention of entrepreneurs; that the procurement process, in general, is transparent; that the rules for public procurement are available to the public; that the rules provide for an open competition procedure; that anyone can participate in it or only those invited; that tenders are advertised so that all interested parties can meet them; that procurement decisions are taken by the Central Board or by any administrative department; that procurement decisions are made publicly. Do officials who decide to make purchases always do that job or do they do the rotation? To publicly control how the project is implemented. Are there internal controls? Is there an independent auditor's control? Public procurement is the biggest corruption field since we have an inefficient law. To be a good law, it needs to be decriminal. We don't have an institution to control the spending of money at all. This law remains quite problematic because it does not regulate what needs to be bought, and thus public procurement remains a source of corruption. Because of corruption, life is more expensive in the country of Serbia by 20% -- due to public procurement, suspicious privatisation, auctioning and bribery of civil servants. That's how I'm going to give you an example of auctioning and tendering. For example, in Leskovac, all privatisations were made on this basis: either with reduced values or up to depreciation, so that many companies don't function effectively in Leskovac, such as "Health", which is employed with reduced capacities, and you heard the latest information that it has been announced that 194 more workers will be fired these days. "Neven" operates with 30% of their capacity, we have a factory that is partially privatized, which is not in an adequate production process for its production capacities to be employed. We've got a "Balkan" that's sold into depravity and was given to other bidders in one extremely inappropriate way. We have Moravka, who has just been privatized and has come into a situation that is slowly, just by enthusiasm and the pawning of workers, comes into a situation to revive production, and is sold into debauchery. We have a Tomako that was sold at the price of what it's worth to a villa in Sutomora, and in the meantime, without legal grounds, this villa, Tomako, was sold. The only thing that works and that's good, in some ways, in this entire privatisation is the Milkara Leskovac and the Predejane Motel. But if we have the Predejane Motel case, it doesn't go through the day without some very important situation, especially dissatisfaction, whether by firing the workers, whether based on some dissatisfaction with the directors, with the new owners of the company. We have a specific case since the day before yesterday that went out in the press, just when it comes to Corridor 10, which is of paramount importance to the residents of the Gredile ravine, especially when it comes to Predejane. The only facility that retains the population of Predejan and the surrounding area is the Predejane Motel. And it is also very important on that other basis that precisely this relation, that part of the Grdelička clisura has an exceptional strategic significance when it comes to proximity, and we already have an existing path, which, with little invested funds, and in the previous period, is the sum of money to bring that part into an adequate state and to be the link between the impasse municipality, the Jablanic County, the nearest and shortest route with Bulgaria, i.e. the Klisur border crossing. Just by building and providing a way out of this relationship, in that part of Predejan, we come into a situation where the Predejane Motel works, and we end up bringing Prediana into contact with Vlasina. So, an extremely attractive location, one of the most attractive in Serbia, with the Vlasinski Lake, where it will allow the development of tourism and, in some ways, the retention of the population, how little is there and how little is left in that part.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10199	Mrs Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure, followed by Mr Damjanović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10200	I'm reporting from Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It seems to me, as much as we meet one of the obligations of the Serbian Parliament here, which is the adoption and adoption of the law, that many things happen beyond this parliament, and that the public is insufficiently informed or not of what are the essential problems in Serbia. Of course, one of the main problems is the corruption that is now being talked about as we talk about this law on public procurement. The problem that Natasa Jovanovic spoke of, the arrest of one of The Hague fugitives, as they call them, is already at a dramatic stage, news on various televisions, radios and so on. What we've been trying to impose here since June as a topic is the problem of KIM. Not since June, we have been living with this topic since these problems, but since June we have been trying to convince the assembly majority and the speaker of parliament to put the resolution of 108 MPs of the SRS, DSS and NS on the agenda. Of course, you're all deaf about it. In fact, it often seems that what's done here, as serious as it should be, is actually a distraction to the public. Here's one piece of information that, believe it or not, he only deserved this much in one daily newspaper. This seems to be the only place Serbian citizens can get real information from. We use it, and unfortunately, often we are warned, which is said to be the abuse of a pay phone, etc. But here, he says, "The results of the return to KIM in 2008 are devastating, which confirms the fact that only 386 people have decided on that step," the annual conference of alliances and associations of internally displaced unions said. As the main reason for the failed return, the alliance has apostrophe of the lack of sincere political will of the competent institutions. What will happen now that KIM is occupied by Eulex, with the consent of the government of the Republic of Serbia and Boris Tadic? It'll only be sadder and more black information... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... which we'll get there from the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10201	Mr Damjanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a duty, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to the citizens of Roma nationality in Serbia, to say a few words. The SRS -- Dr Vojislav Seselj has never supported discrimination and manipulation towards any citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I confirm and say that there is no discrimination against national minorities in our country. There may be concern for individuals, but we generally have the right in all segments and areas of the Republic of Serbia, from politics to education, to enter, to fight and to be a factor in our national minority. That's what the Constitution and the law say. As far as we're capable, as homogeneous as we're integrated, we'll succeed in our country. We can't complain about the majority people not to let us do this iono. We need to know the Constitution and the law and look for our rights. As for discrimination, or manipulation towards the Roma community, I cannot say that the majority of people support and give opportunity, but we have certain Roma representatives in the institutions of systems that make fantastic crimes, these are millions of figures. As a man, as a representative of the Roma community in Serbia and the world, and as a member of the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, at the request of the citizens I must present some things. We have an office for the Roma strategy. I won't mention it, or talk about the name that's there, but I have adequate data and reports that major financial, criminal activities are being done in that office. So I ask and appeal, as MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, under Article 226, to receive a financial report -- how much has been paid by the Ministry of Culture and other organisations to this very Roma Strategy Office? Also, these days I've had a lot of visits from certain people looking for and saying what they're saying, I'm not going to do it now, because I don't have enough arguments, but I'm also asking the Ministry to deliver a report to me as a MP, how much funding has been paid to the National Council and a financial report on public works. I'm looking for this because they're... (President: Time. I had delegations at my place and they asked for a report. I believe European values are not crime and corruption. We all know that at this time many things happen, that the state wants to stabilise, that the state is working against crime, bribery, corruption, and that's why as a Roma, I urge this to be delivered to me, because we all know how Roma live in Serbia today. (President: Time, Mr Damjanovic, bring the end. I'm done. The SRS made a proposal to the Ministry of Capital Investments, Velimir Ilic, who enabled Roma living on the coast of the Danube, where there was a flood, and then the Ministry and the SRS, or the SO, enabled all these Roma to build their houses. Please, instead of helping the Roma people with the institutions of the state, we rob the Roma people. It's another genocide on everything the Roma people have experienced. I hope I get all these reports I asked for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10203	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 67th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, Madam Minister, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 67. Proposal for a law on public procurement, with a proposal to delete the said member completely. In that law, members from 59 to 68 refer to deadlines in the public procurement process. Since public procurement is one of the possible sources of corruption, almost all the time we see in the press and in all places that various affairs are happening, only those in the military, Davinic, and police, should be remembered, etc. and other institutions, I believe that strict compliance with the prescribed deadlines is one of the very important and strong arguments for reducing the said corruption, so all factors, i.e. the link in the public procurement chain, should adhere to these deadlines, both the client and the bidders, and then all legal and natural persons involved in this process. On the other hand, the contracting authority is obliged to define in a public call and competitive documentation a specific time limit within which tenders should be submitted, with this deadline to be identical, both in a public call and in a competitive documentation. The tenderer, for his part, is obliged to submit an offer within the prescribed time limit, and in the event that he is elected in the tender, he is obliged to honour what he has made in the offer and to sign the contract in time, and if he does not, and the contract does not sign, then the contracting authority has the right to cash in the guarantee made with the offer by the bidder. The deadlines for submitting bids begin as soon as the offer is announced in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. Looking at that moment, the offer can from that moment on be timely and untimely. Under a timely offer, that offer submitted before the expiry of the prescribed time limit shall be considered. And when it is established that a timely offer has been made, the exact date and time of its arrival must be given for that offer, i.e. the contracting authority must issue the relevant written document, which is the receipt certificate. On the other hand, if the offer arrives after the deadline has expired, the offer is categorized as an untimely and then the untimely offer must be returned to the bidder, in order to be eliminated from the follow-up procedure. The law also set a period of validity of the offer and cannot be shorter than 60 days, counting on the date of opening of the offer, and it is also prescribed a way to submit an offer, which, according to this proposal, can be a troika, namely: 1st direct submission of the offer, 2nd submission by mail and 3rd submission by electronic means, by making this third, electronic means closer to defining the competent finance ministry with its sublegal acts. The law also stipulates that the full procedure of public procurement is carried out in such a way that appropriate principles are respected in public procurement, and these principles can again, for their part, be respected only if the deadlines are respected, as prescribed. In this way, the principle of economicity and efficiency of use of public funds can only be expressed if all supply-related time limits are strictly respected. The principle of competition between various bidders can also be realised only if all links in the procurement chain comply with the time limits prescribed. Furthermore, the principle of transparency can also be realised only if a timely public call is made in the "Official Messenger" or on the Public Procurement Authority website. This now depends specifically on the value of the offer, as it is known that offers are given in "The Official Messenger", and those of the largest 50 and more million dinars on the Public Procurement Authority website. Finally, the principle of equality between the tenderers, which should provide equal treatment to all tenderers, can also be realised only if all tenderers are given the same time limit to carry out an insight into the public procurement data, and in this case that deadline is prescribed within two days of the date of submission of the request for insight. Article 62. The proposal for a law on public procurement sets the deadline for submission of tenders and categories it as some appropriate time-limit to make a good and quality offer. Now you see this term "appropriate" can be interpreted one way or the other. So, if it is appropriate, this should mean a sufficient period, but other members of the law say that bid deadlines can be double, and these general and shortened deadlines, and these general deadlines are generally applied in all situations, while the short deadlines are prescribed only in exceptional cases, and they now depend on the type of procedure envisaged for public procurement, so three types of procedures for selecting the most favourable offer are provided for in this law. The first is an open procedure, where all interested candidates can, or persons can submit offers in accordance with the law and with published competitive documentation. The second procedure is so-called. the restrictive procedure, consisting of two phases, and in the first stage of the restrictive procedure, is actually qualified, by assessing whether certain tenderers meet or do not fulfil the prescribed conditions to be involved in the tender, i.e. in some way the material and organisational qualifications of the offeror to be competitive for this second phase. In the second phase, the contracting authority calls on only those tenderers to whom he has recognised the qualification to submit an offer, while those to whom the qualification is not recognised do not have the right to submit an offer. These are the two stages of the restrictive procedure to which my amendment applies. I'm just saying, by the way, there's a third option, that's the third way to choose the most favourable offer, and that's that so-called. a negotiation procedure, which only applies when, for whatever reason, an open or restrictive procedure fails. In fact, there is a direct contract between the contracting authority and the bidder, depending on whether this negotiation procedure is published by a public call or without the publication of a public call. This is particularly close to determining Article 23 and Article 24 of the Law. As I pointed out, my amendment refers to this shortened deadline for submission of bids in a restrictive procedure, and in many ways the amendment is similar to the amendment previously made by a respected colleague Tomislav Ljubenovic, except that his amendment was in connection with the open procedure, and that which I have submitted is concerning the restrictive procedure. I will read the amendment that the government refused, with the reason that it is the same note as for the explanation of the amendments to Tomislav Ljubenovic, so that I do not repeat everything the previous speaker said, only these two members will read to you, relating to the restrictive procedure. Article 66. - setting a general deadline for filing applications in a restrictive procedure. It says - the time limit for submitting offers in a restrictive procedure cannot be shorter than 30 days after the orderr has sent a written request. So article 66 says it can't be shorter. You see now, and Article 67 is a shortened time limit for submission of bids in a restrictive procedure, and this member says that the time limit for submission of tenders in a restrictive procedure may be shorter than the time limit set in Article 66. There's a collapsing in here right now. Article 66 says it can't be shorter than 30 days, and Article 67 says it can. I therefore suggested that the mentioned article 67 be deleted and that only a member of 66 remain in force, which gives a deadline of these 30 days, because logically we do not see the importance and essence of the eight-day cut, since, as is known, it takes a certain time to prepare a quality offer. I will use this time to avoid going out in the Rules of Procedure, and I will repeat what counterpart Zaran Krasic said yesterday afternoon after this pay phone. In "Evening news" of Saturday 6 December some table came out about the minute how many MPs have spent here from 11 June to today, from the constitution of the Assembly, and says - at least spent lessons in the hall of Elena Bozic 1.18, Zoran Krasic 1.22, Goran Mihajlović 1.53. I don't understand the criteria for this evaluation, because you yourself are witnessing that at least Mr. Zoran Krasic has spent more than twice as much of this time only at the pay phone, let alone in the O.R., which means that this is another proof that he should not only read the newspaper, but also watch the second channel RTS, because you can find the real and complete truth here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10205	Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10206	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I apologize for interrupting such a wonderful discussion, but I would like to take advantage of the arrival of the Minister of Finance here to ask the matter of the Rules of Procedure, which is Article 225 and 226, where I ask what is the question of the subsidies related to agriculture, or the sown area of one hectare and the given throats, which state was to pay? You know very well that the budget rebalance predicted that the Ministry of Agriculture brought about about seven billion, that it was said that this money would pay off the debt, the one you owe to the farmers. However, this did not happen during this period and therefore I am asking the question concerning these subsidies. I think it is necessary to meet the country's commitment to agricultural producers as soon as possible, because you know that even from the subsidies that were related to the autumn sowing, the peasants had nothing, any help from the state, whether in the form of repromation, whether in the form of oil or anything else, which would allow them to get through, or to sow as easily as possible, to make it easier for them in their work. The second question, I apologize, would you like to listen to me, because it is very important, forgive me, please, on the Privatisation Committee I asked a very painful question. You know very well that when I go out for this pay phone, I mention these criminal privatisations. I see that approximately the Privatisation Agency has filed lawsuits related to certain criminal privatisations that have taken place, which is to say, because I come from the Sabac municipality and I know the Sabbath economy well. I must tell you that many times I mention the former privatisation minister, Vlahovic, asking for certain responsible questions that he himself heard when he was a minister. During that time, certain, to call - the criminal privatisation that has been done in certain Sabbath companies has not been resolved through the court either. I heard certain lawsuits should be resolved before the Serbian Supreme Court. It's a privatisation of "Sava" catering company. I don't understand why these trade courts or business courts can't solve these problems about this privatisation, because it's obvious that there's been criminal privatisation just in the company, what Alexander Vlahovic was personally familiar with, when he said on the TV show that it was really criminally done and that it would be settled under the law. That was four years ago. The workers haven't solved their problem. I ask you, in four years, how do individual workers who don't work anywhere, how and in what way should they support their families? (President: Time. I'm done. How and in what way should they fulfill their debt to the State through taxes? The state has done nothing to them for this time, to resolve their business status. A lot of people, I'm honest with you, are on the street, right from that company, where one big crime comes from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10207	Dear Members of the People just to inform you, the Transport and Communications Committee will hold a session at 13 o'clock at the Prescenter on the ground floor. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10208	Madam President, you just said it was scheduled for the Traffic Committee at 13 o'clock. Did you schedule that committee or the chairman of the board? I don't think it's good, since we spent a good part of the day yesterday in a debate on the gas agreement and the insistence of the MPs were scheduled for these two committees, where two ministers should appear, given that one minister tells one story, the other and that it is clear, as far as possible and it would be more logical to even interrupt the session in that period, that all interested MPs attend that committee, but we don't ask for that, we don't insist. At the very least, it is inappropriate and should be kept in mind that at least other committees are not scheduled at the same time, because it is quite certain that there is a great interest of the MPs to attend these committees regarding this Gas Agreement with the Russian Federation. Is someone deliberately divorcing, divorcing, does anyone care to finally determine what it is or doesn't matter? To avoid confusion, we Serbian radicals voted for the agreement and we support every kind of co-operation with the Russian Federation, but we have nothing against it. That's why my colleague Buha immediately accepted the appointment of the committee he chaired yesterday. We don't mind that everything that is potentially disputed is cleared up, that ministers don't text through newspapers, but if they don't already come here, and if you don't want to schedule a non-confidential session, then let the committees at least attend as many MPs as possible, because otherwise the position of Serbian radicals is that the committees are not scheduled for the duration of Parliament's session, because a man can't stand to attend two places at the same time, and we think that the work in this room is too high. And because of the public, and of course also because of the MPs, here is only a suggestion, if possible, that this committee that you have announced move until these two, currently current and important committees are completed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10209	Thank you for your observation. But Mr. Velimir Ilic, who is the chairman of this committee, has made no appointment with all of us, except probably members. It may be that this session will be brief and will serve as a reason to join this second session. Your observation is quite appropriate, but I can also use your words, your discussion and simply as a single comment and a reminder to the president that it is. I don't believe there's anything tending, but I think it's a good idea to comment on the fact that there's already been a joint session of two committees at the same time, and some board members and Mr. President of the Board still keep our findings in mind. Here you go, Srboljub Zivanovic, again according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10210	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I apologize for interrupting this discussion, but I have a great obligation to you MPs. It is likely that many of you were not in that period of the 1990s until 2000, and it is very important that I give one explanation or that you understand or make one decision that is likely to be very important for all of us in one period. That is, I must honestly tell you, when there was a major economic blockade in Serbia that was imposed on us, the only friend, the only country that allowed Serbia's economy to function uninterruptedly is Russia. Why am I telling you this? Our chemical industries, which could not imagine their work without gas, yet then the Russian economy made it possible, independent of this economic blockade, that our economic facilities function, that Serbia and the Serbian people should not be hungry. It allowed mineral fertiliser factories to work uninterruptedly. That's what everyone needs to know, when it comes to this agreement to remember and to know that sometimes you turn to those who were patriots, patriots, those who thought well of us, and that's Russia's mother. The only country in the time when we were also bombed meant us. Don't think of those who killed our children, those who destroyed our kindergartens, those who destroyed hospitals, those who wanted to destroy our economy, those who destroyed everything that was created in 50-60 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10211	Mr. Zoran Antic responded after Mr. Igor Becic's amendment to article 69.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Igor Becic has submitted an amendment to Article 69, which seems to me to be very important, as well as a fellow Socialist Party member, Zoran Kasalovic, a similar amendment, I think they have completely hit the subject, because the law that is before us is the factical law of the past. What we need to think about is electronic procurement. Electronic public procurement is being applied today in almost all countries of Europe, applied to our environment, and it is really embarrassing that the Public Procurement Administration, even on its Portal, cannot update all contracts and all public procurement three months. The amendments submitted by colleagues relate to the absence of restrictions in terms of the amount to be covered by public procurement, i.e. for public procurement of five million dinars for goods and services, or 20 million dinars for works. I guess it's just as much the Public Procurement Administration has to make all public procurement available to the public after three months, at least for so much transparency we have to respect, and if we're trying to fight corruption, I think it's important that my colleagues' commitment to e-procurement is significant. A few more data in favour of e-procurement, I hope that we will soon have this new law, because this law is effectively exceeded, is the fact that, in terms of advertising only, when it comes to public procurement, about 190 million dinars are spent in Serbia annually, somewhere over 2–2.5m euros goes to newspapers only. A national project of electronic public procurement was also launched in November 2006, and perhaps it is a real issue for the ministry and an opportunity to ask the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government the question: what about the project of electronic public procurement launched in November 2006? The aim of the project was also to gain significantly better insight into the offer through e-procurements, to increase the number of public procurement offers, so that from anywhere at any time a public procurement process could be controlled. As far as the Internet Portal itself is concerned, in any case, it would mean shorter times when it comes to public procurement, it's one of the major concerns of the businesses on public procurement, the costs would be reduced, and I've already said something about it, and it's kind of standardized the process itself, and it's standardized the goods and services that are offered when it comes to public procurement. The Serbian Progressive Party, the Progressive Group of Serbia's Tomislav Nikolic, has always advocated corruption, and Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic themselves are the most recognizable in the fight against corruption. This is an opportunity for us, even through e-procurement, as we advocate for the State Auditing Institution, to push for the fight against corruption. We will continue in this fight in the future, and I think that experience and other countries are in the environment when it comes to electronic procurement, in terms of the general level of information development, not only in the country, but in the economy, it has also produced good results. The introduction of information technologies in these economies is much higher than we have, and thus the competitiveness of their economy compared to ours is much better. Therefore, at the end of another time on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party, on behalf of the parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic, on behalf of the promoter Igor Becic, please consider and not allow the Public Procurement Authority to treat this problem this easily. Because in Article 100, which we will have a chance to discuss a little later, one of the tasks of the Public Procurement Administration is to pay and adapt to world trends and improve. (During this speech, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10213	Mr. Milan Avramovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Articles 225 and 226. To use the minister's presence to answer one very important question. Therefore, the expenditure control achieved in the municipality from which I come, on the basis of the remuneration of employees and officials, has shown that the municipality respected the Serbian Government Regulation that properly established and accounted for the basics for the salaries of employees, but that the salaries were otherwise illegally high. Why do I need this answer? In fact, the inspection found that the municipal government paid all the employees in the municipal administration for a stimulating supplement, 30% on profits, which was contrary to the provisions of the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. Such payments were contrary to the applicable Regulation on coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries, but also to the provision of Article 36(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the budgetary system, which states such payments could not fall on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. As a result, the inspection ordered municipal authorities to return a net amount of 5.7m, i.e. a gross amount of 8.4m dinar within three months, to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was illegally paid in 2005 alone in the name of stimulating supplements. However, the story of salaries does not end here, as the inspection found that the municipality of employees in the municipal administration who had high professional equipment illegally increased the coefficients up to 20%, based on the quality of work and performance in 2005. The possibility of payment on this basis was given by the Serbian government by its regulation, but the Sava Venac municipality misused the possibility by paying higher amounts than those allowed. That is why the inspection ordered the return of illegally paid incentives based on the quality of work and results in a net amount of two million and 1.1 million dinars in the Republic's budget within three months. My question, Minister - are these funds returned to the Serbian budget? What are the sanctions if they are not returned and when and will the Budgetal Inspectorate visit the Sava Venac municipality again, since this is the 2006 report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10215	Mr. Bojan Mladenovic by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia, I am reporting an amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party. I can't understand anyone talking about the amendment to the law on public procurement, someone who sold honor without a tender, and morals and cheeks. I would like to say that the government's further opinion on these amendments has been given to us on November 7, 14 and 20, and it is very difficult to follow these amendments, so I would ask, if at all possible in the future, when we have more views of the Government on the amendments, to get united in one place and lined up in the order of the amendment. As for Article 69, paragraph 2 reads: "If the value of public procurement exceeds the amount of five million dinars for goods and services, or 20 million dinars for works, ads are also announced on the Public Procurement Portal. "The Serbian Radical Party's proposal is to change it and read: "If the value of the public procurement for goods, services or works exceeds the value of the purchase of small value, which is determined by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, ads are also published on the Public Procurement Portal. ''The proposed change is an acceptable solution, given that each year, the Law on Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia provides for a lower limit of public procurement and that the limit for 2007 is 2.7 million dinars, while, initially, the proposed solution, without any valid and justified criteria, is a fixed limited value of public procurement to five million dinars for goods and services, i.e. to 20 million dinars for works, which should be published on the so-called '. The portal of public procurement. We also proposed that paragraphs 3 and 4 be deleted within Article 69. Item 3 reads: "All public procurement ads are published in Serbian." Paragraph 4 reads: "If the purchase value exceeds 150 million dinars for goods and services, or 300 million dinars for works, public procurement ads are also published in a language commonly used in international trade." Items 3 and 4 in Article 69 are too high, as they are already contained in Article 15, which is closer to the heading under 6) Language in the public procurement procedure, and Article 69 under the heading under 11) Public procurement advertising is considered to be only one segment of the whole procurement procedure. In Article 15, point 1 states: "The orderer prepares competitive documentation and conducts the procedure in Serbian, so we believe that the positions of the 3rd and 4th are entirely excessive in Article 69. As for public procurement, when the area of public procurement in Serbia received its legal framework in June 2002, the public was convinced that the Law on Public Procurement was a legal-systemic solution and the first anti-corruption law adopted by the then Dossmanian government. However, that this is "a promise of crazy joy" everyone quickly became convinced, realizing that in the biggest affairs, looting of the state tills and corruptions, precisely the consequences of this law, which systematically enabled the riching of the regime at the time and the current. As a result, any deception by the finance ministry of citizens and the public, which argues that between 2002 and 2006, positive developments in public procurement and 300m-dollar savings have been achieved, is a substitute for thesis and a clean lie. This kind of marketing and political self-eklamming, which is not effectively supported, is not acceptable for two reasons. The first reason is that the practical application of the Public Procurement Act best paints how much money and through which all mechanisms are poured into the pockets of those state officials who, conditionally speaking, work on its implementation. Another reason why a claim on the 300m-dollar budget damage cannot be accepted is that the Public Procurement Authority only saves this account on the basis of available projections. Thus, from the croutons of the annual reports delivered by the contracting authorities, the Administration is making a parallel demonstration of the planned value of the annual purchases and the results, i.e. the costs incurred by public procurement. Based on the difference observed between the plan and the realisation, there is a projection of the savings that does not represent the real factual state. This also contributes to the Public Procurement Administration's data to save in public enterprises a negative trend and that between 2005 and 2007, they were below average, which is alarming, as the share of public enterprises ranged from half to even 2/3 of the total value of public procurement in Serbia. So the real question is: can under these circumstances and with this authority in Serbia at all be said that there is any savings in the budget thanks to the Public Procurement Act, while the entire public procurement system is realised in one criminal and for the regime a very profitable way? As for tenders organised during the previous period in Serbia, they are often placed on individuals who are politically similar, or who will later be reimbursed by campaigning and giving them money for other needs of these parties. By installing the tender, a large number of individuals are provided with enormous wealth. It must be put in the way of such public procurement, because the tenders and contracts set up not only quickly allow for the wealth of individuals, but also destroy businesses, companies and cause great damage to the state. As far as the tender goes, they have to be public. It must be possible to allow as many bidders as possible to participate in them and it is important that all be notified in time of tender conditions and with complete information on the conditions of the same. It must not be allowed to order goods or services not to conduct a tender, allegedly due to the urgency of the procedure, which was a common practice with us. It must also be prevented that the client is working in co-operation with the donor in order to determine the price of the offer. The orderer must be prevented from giving the specification of goods or services, so that they correspond to a particular bidder and thus favour it. The purchase of goods and services should be economically, i.e. the best combination of prices and quality, and the opening of offers should always be public. The most common forms of abuse are the planning of purchases that are by volume and characteristics in accordance with the plan of the client's activities, then the reduction of time limits for submission of tenders in relation to the law prescribed, favouring an advance notified bidder. It is common to abuse quality as a criterion to be assessed on the basis of the subjective attitude of the commission members, then to abuse the criteria of experience so far, through which the contracting authority can favour those bidders with whom it has been operating for a long time and thus prevents others who would be more favourable to be selected. It is also often misused to annex the contract, which changes the agreed price, as a rule to more and the quantities are reduced, while delivery deadlines are extended. Finally, I would say that the SRS has submitted 51 amendments to this law on public procurement, of which 14 were adopted, thereby trying to fix this law in some way. I must point out that one part of the amendment was written in 2002 and was written by Dr Vojislav Seselj. We have adapted some of these amendments to this bill now, and one part of them has been accepted. I'm only going to tell you about one in a row that's accepted in a short time, and that's Article 19, where you're talking in detail about how the client has to reject the bidder if he's threatening, giving him a bribe, blackmailing him or something like that. This applies to the positions 1 and 2 in Article 19, and Dr Vojislav Seselj submitted an amendment in 2002 to add Article 3 which reads: "The orderer is obliged to, in the cases referred to in Article 1 and Article 2 of this Article, immediately inform the authorities of the prosecution and other competent authorities, which will take action against such entities under the law of the prescribed measure". It's funny just to refuse an offer. If someone gives you corruption, if someone offers you bribes, if someone blackmails you or anything like that, the bidder who offered bribes, threatened or otherwise, must be punished, not just rejected. It is one of the amendments that our president wrote back in 2002, all in order to fight corruption and to minimise public procurement affairs. So that's how we wrote that amendment again, but this time it's accepted and I hope it affects the reduction of affairs in public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10217	National MP Zoran Kasalovic made a written withdrawal of his amendment to Article 69. It's a bill of law. It shall be subject to Article 69 of the amendment, on the basis of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10218	Madam Minister, you wouldn't have made any mistake if you had accepted this amendment by your colleague, Momira Markovic, to Article 71. The proposal for a law on public procurement, just as you did by accepting the amendment to Article 28, which was also submitted by counterpart Markovic. The only problem or reason, I suppose, lies in the fact that the amendment to Article 71 is actually a fundamental character and that it would make a significant contribution to the fact that what we bring here in the Serbian Parliament about the law on public procurement is really valid. Because it is known that the biggest problem lies in the fact that legal proposals, however good or bad they are, are generally not implemented in practice and that is what allows a number of abuses related to legal provisions. Col. Momir Markovic, in article 71, suggested changing the figure of 50 million dinars by a figure of 25 million, so that the member could read: ''For planned public procurements whose indicative value is greater than 25 million dinars, the client is obliged to publish at least once a year a previous review of the intention to carry out the procurement procedure. The previous review shall be published within at least 30 days and no more than 12 months before a public procurement call will be issued. ''I think that if the amendment were to be accepted, it would become a member of the law and have the right purpose and purpose, so as not to allow some examples from not so far past, and I will once use this time to remind you of the abuse of the legal provisions on public procurement. So, if we remember, not so long ago, about three or four years ago, the subject of the interest of the budgetary inspection of the Ministry of Finance, more precisely at the end of 2004, was the Republic Road Directorate and its then director, Tihomir Timothyjevic, otherwise when DS. In short, in that 2003, while it was headed by the Directorate, the budget was broken by 118 million dinars, while more than 200 public procurements, which are normally measured in billions of dinars, were implemented in an illegal manner, and in addition to what I am going to talk about, the record and the complete documentation on the control of the material-financed business, the purpose and legal use of the funds of the Republic of Belgrade Roads Directorate, which, as I said, was carried out at the end of 2004. It should be noted that around two months the budgetary inspector spent in the Republic Roads Directorate. However, in a document consisting of 56 pages of text, the first responsible person was designated by the then director of the Directorate, and, in addition, as responsible persons, the head of accounting, and the chiefs of the Department of Highways and Regional Roads. What's certainly the biggest problem in this case is that by taking a look at this inspector's finding only partially, you can get a picture of everything that's been going on in the Republic Roads Directorate. Unfortunately, the reason is very simple, because the control of the documentation was carried out by a method of random sampling, i.e. by an inspection method of skipping or, as already in the report itself, by means of a random selection of controlled documentation. Thus, apart from saving the time of the budgetary inspector, we have essentially received a drop of water in the sea of what can be determined by serious and systematic control. The control of budget spending in the Roads Directorate found that as much as 118,325,000 dinars were spent in this company more than was allowed by budget adjunctions for 2003. For example, at the position of 423 - Contracting Services, 12.5 million dinars were allocated from the budget, and 68.8 million were spent, which is 56.3 million more than allowed. Also, for position 426 - The cost of material was 4.2 million more than permitted, while for position 541 - Land, more than 16.8 million were spent. Another reason to break the budget, i.e. illegal spending of money from the state register, is also hiding in the payment of foreign and domestic interest, but also repays the principals to foreign creditors. Due to domestic disbursement of various interest payments, the budget has been broken by 7.2 million dinars, while foreign interest budgets have been broken by as much as 10.1 million dinars. A slightly worse case is with the repayment of the principal to foreign lenders, which was approved from the budget by 250.7m, while the final spending amounted to 274.1m, which is 23.4m dinars higher. In view of this kind of business, the budgetary inspector found a deficit in the budget and ordered the Directorate to make up for 118.325,000 dinars within 30 days in the state register. So, the Directorate for Roads and Director Timothyjevic, then, as a contractor in 2003, carried out 90 public procurements of great value and all in an illegal manner. All high-value public procurement, then over 600,000 dinars, carried out by the Directorate in 2003, totalled as much as 9.5 billion dinars. These procurements have not been implemented by the Directorate in accordance with the then applicable and still applicable Public Procurement Act, because it has not previously adopted an annual public procurement plan, which is a prerequisite for a tender to be opened. Apparently, it was done according to its own wishes and intentions, tenders were conducted beyond the law when it was considered necessary, that is, when it corresponded to the leadership of the Directorate at the time. By way of a list of 90 public procurements, which was delivered in the form of an annual report by the Public Procurement Authority, the budgetary inspector revealed 17 other public procurements to which no tender documentation, i.e. the procedure, has been applied at all. These purchases ranged from one million to 57 million dinars. But that's not the end of it, either. The budget inspector found that in some cases, too, without a tender procedure, money was spent. At that time, over the Directorate, as a service provider, JP "Belgrade Road" spent 188.6 million dinars, while the SO Shabac Road Directorate spent 9.7 million dinars. Of course, the continuity of this "domestic" business continued in the following year, when what was done in the previous calendar year was only actually repainted. The annual public procurement plan was not even delivered, and more than 60 large-value purchases were made. The control also found that 14 public procurements had not been conducted at all by the tender procedure, although the value of these purchases ranged from one million to three hundred and sixty-six million dinars. In addition to controlling the high-value public procurement procedures, the budgetary inspector has carried out control of small-value public procurement. In 2003, it was up to 600,000 dinars, and in 2004 it was up to a million dinars. It was discovered that the Directorate did not bring an annual public procurement plan this time of small value. On the basis of this, according to the legal provisions, the director, Timothyjevic, was not allowed to launch a small-value procurement process at all. However, as many as 55 were made, four purchases ranging from 800 000 to millions and 100,000 dinars, which are subject to high-value purchases. Unfortunately, the story doesn't end here either, because the budgetary inspector further checked out that certain purchases were made without any legal procedure, such purchases were 10 and cost up to 700,000 dinars. For the fourth time ever for these purchases, it was supposed to meet the legal requirement, the annual plan, but it was never brought in. As a unique example of the abuse of a tender in the Directorate, on which the budgetary inspector paid particular attention during the controls, was the procurement of road salt. The Republic Road Directorate is 12. 09. In 2003, in the process of impromptu and illegal public procurement, she concluded a contract with Belgrade's Universal AD Holding on the purchase and delivery of 35,000 tonnes of road salt, with a total value of 121.9 million dinars with a turnover tax. However, another 14,000 tonnes of salt was purchased without any further 51.2m dinar in the absence of the winter season from the same company. It is particularly interesting that according to some invoices, salt is not paid at the same price, but at significantly increased prices. This salting of 50 tons of salt roads has illegally dialed the budget with as much as 173 million dinars. It is also interesting that the company "Universal" did not meet its contractual obligation to distribute salt, which was paid. Thus, the Kruševac Road Roads Company from Kruševac provided the Roads Directorate with an invoice at a rate of 96,000 dinars for distribution in its own organization, which was the obligation of a supplier of the company "Universal". Control of a random sample of documentation relating to the costs of transporting scattered materials has also established major machinations. A contractor for the Kragujevac Roads Company has provided the Roads Directorate with the account sheets of the construction book on the waste of 51 tonnes of material on the roads. However, neither the individual price of the service nor the registration number of the vehicle nor its loadability could be detected from that record. This data was certainly important in order to determine the legality and regularity of cost invoices for the alleged waste of 51 tonnes of material on the roads and according to the current pricers. Further control has shown that the invoices shown in the above described way are extremely suspicious because they do not contain all the necessary data. With the control of the identical documentation relating to both the maintenance costs of the main and regional roads by Kragujevac Roads Company, it was clear that the invoices, as it is said in the jargon, were bloated, or the budgetary inspector found that there was a price deviation in the invoices compared to the prices established by the current pricer of the Directorate. The phenomenon of all the phenomena in the Roads Directorate, which must have been acknowledged, surprised the budgetary inspector, took place on December 29th and 2004, at the time of control. On that day, the Public Payments Authority made payments to the Delta Bank and to the burden of Serbia's budget, totaling 60m dinars. The consequences of this payment were produced by the personal director Tihomir Timotijevic, and in line with the illegal agreement of 6.8.2003, which he signed with the Niš road company AD from Nis. The agreement obliged the Road Directorate to postpone the payment of works carried out on the E75 highway, the Pečevce-Grabovnica section, the first. Payment is scheduled to take place via the bonds, and upon prior delivery of any certified situation by the contractors. So the Roads Directorate issued six single bills, with 10 million dinars each, making up 60 million dinars in total. The budget inspector unequivocally and clearly concluded that this act is contrary to the Budgetary System Act and that it is in line with the same and punishable. This is an example from 2004, and what I said and when in the assembly procedure we had a set of draft laws from the judiciary, as well as today on public procurement, the biggest problem is, gentlemen, because the laws are not applied in practice. Four years have passed since then, of course, there are no results. The only question is how many of these Tihomiras are in the DS, and I'm going to hand you this report, which was made up by a budgetary inspector, regarding abuses in the area of public procurement in the Roads Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10219	Mrs. Verica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10220	I'm reporting from Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I believe that my dignity as a People's MP has been injured, as well as the entire parliamentary groups of the SRS, namely this Parliament and the entire state of Serbia, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the courtial behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards all who come here, who offer them a stick and carrot. What Natasa Jovanovic announced this morning about the events in Arandelovac and the news that the arrest of one of the Hague fugitives is under way, we think it is really high time that the Government of the Republic of Serbia stopped meeting the conditions, and Serž Brammerc, and various white-world counters that come here and give us orders, or issue orders to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia in this country is nothing sacred, nothing is in line with tradition, with the moral values that are in force in Serbia. Two days ago, we talked about Eulexes, we talked about the consequences of having Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija and those who intended to return to Kosovo and Metohija, the government doesn't care what the MPs think, the government doesn't care what the Serbian citizens think. It's important that you, gentlemen of the government, are placed in comfortable chairs. It is important that you just keep an eye on who you will still without a tender to buy in order to have a secure congregation majority. Of course, we're not interested in these dirty jobs, these matches, but we're interested in state affairs, in state interests. You can't do what you're going to do just because you promised Serge Brammertz something. Whenever he appears in Serbia, in Serbia, a black day takes place. All in your heart, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what you promised to whom you promised, is enough to keep those promises. Do you think if you arrest the Hague, what do you call them, fugitives, if you arrest the heroes of the Serbian people, they will tell you – come to Europe, the road is open for you? No, you recognised Kosovo and Metohija, the independent republic of Kosovo, by bringing in the Eulex mission. What's next? Good neighborly relations? I'm running out of time. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10221	Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10222	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request information under Article 226. A Rules of Procedure as a People's MP of the SRS - on whose orders was the Ministry of Interior at Ljubinko Zlatic's house in Kosovo Street 21 in Arangelovac this morning? At the same time, I would like to congratulate Mr. Zlatic. He gave a statement to media members in the yard of his house in Arangelovac, after leaving those who meet the requirements of the Hague villains of his house, picked up his phones, calendars, books, and all because he was a schoolmate of the famous General Ratko Mladic. Blessed are all those who are his schoolmates, and those who are his relatives and friends and those who were his companions, for it was indeed an honor for every soldier, above all for every officer to be commanded by General Mladic over him. As Ljubinko Zlatić is a proud man, and he, regardless of all the tortures he may still suffer, said just now to all the cameras of all the media that were in his backyard - I am proud of it, and if I could and whenever I could help my schoolmate, Mladić. Long live General Mladić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10223	Mr. Ljubenović, then Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a parliamentary question, and I would like to attach myself to articles 225 and 226, and I would like to ask Minister Milutin Mrkonjic. I have recently updated Corridor 10, the construction of the highway through the Grdelička clisuru and the exit from the loop at Predjejan, which is extremely important, especially because the area is extremely passive, which has not been paid much attention, and there is also a strategic significance when it comes to a section of the Woodland Municipality, the Black Treva and part of the Surdulic municipality. The road is extremely important for the development of tourism in Lake Vlassin, and hence the fact that it is just leading to the Bulgarian border as the shortest way to the Klisur border crossing. So I want to get that report as soon as possible, because it is of great importance to the citizens of Leskovac, Predejan, Black Grass and Vlasina.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10225	Mr. Damjanović, then you, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a member of the SRS and member of the national minority of the Roma community, I would like to say about the arrest of General Mladic. Do we need to know our history in this country? We all know her well. Should we strategically defend this country, defend our Serb people and all the minorities living in it when there is aggression against our country? We all know what the accident was, what the victims were, how much our country was destroyed for the bombing of all of Europe. No one says anything, those who killed us and destroyed our country and infrastructure, I wonder how no one would answer. And those people, those folk heroes, those military strategists who defended the interest of our country, our people, we arrest them. I wonder, then, how do we arrest someone who defends our country, our people and our children and those who protect this country from all these aggressors? I wonder, if we arrest our strategic people, out of importance for the defense of our people and our country, and not those who killed, destroyed, our country, what are we doing? As a member of this community, the Republic of Serbia, I believe and have information that General Mladic and Mr Karadzic have defended hundreds of thousands of people from being victims of aggression in Krajina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, where wars took place. Should we arrest those who saved our children, so that there is no slaughter, murder, and genocide? I'm sorry, my opinion and my views, as a man of this state, I find that wrong. I support everything that is of the interest and defence of the Republic of Serbia. These SRS views have always been and will always have them to defend their country and their people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10227	Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Boris Tadic are a topic that we could talk about from the point of view of crime, corruption and we started talking about it, and we talked about today, both yesterday and these days. But there is something much more dangerous, which is the Serbian government's relationship with Boris Tadic towards Serbia's national interests. It's not a joke what we're talking about, it's not unserious what we've been paying attention to for days. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, what happened with Eulex is only a first step, the next step is that Serbia will be asked to have good neighbourly relations with Kosovo, as those who recognise Kosovo's independence say. Unfortunately, if this continues the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of this country, we can expect that. Don't think we're exaggerating now, because every time we Serbian radicals announced something, because some things are obvious, then we had dark views or a media lynch, because we, God, are scaring the people. Unfortunately, everything we predicted really happened and happened. That is why we are now warning the government of the Republic of Serbia, so we are now warning Boris Tadic, Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. That's the first thing. Another thing, don't touch General Mladic, don't touch Hadzic. These EU friends of yours, who say -- if you arrest them, Serbia will go to the EU. No, if you arrest General Ratko Mladic, Serbia will be charged with genocide, Serbs will be charged with genocide, Serbia will have to pay huge damages to Croatia's claims and BiH's announced retrial. It's all funny to you, you don't care, you don't want to think, not about what's Serbia's interest tomorrow. You do not want to think about what is Serbia's interest today. The interest of the Serbian state and the interest of the citizens of Serbia is to keep Serbia within these borders, to keep KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, to turn to ourselves, to get rid of those who hit us, i.e. They hit you with a stick, and occasionally they give you carrots. Serge Brammertz is due to declare Serbia, but some government ministers have announced these days that his statement will be positive, and that is why today you want to do something that I hope is not possible. That's why you're harassing the Darka Mladic family the other day, today this man in Arangelovac. Who tomorrow should expect some dark forces to fall, who knows where and who knows who leads whom, someone who knows Serbian, and behind them are those who do not know Serbian, who came here only to fulfill the orders of their countries. Unfortunately, our statesmen allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10229	Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević, then Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10230	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of our colleagues, these days we are getting bill proposals from the government in the assembly procedure. During the campaign, we had an announcement by the newly formed government or this assembly majority that there would be a fight against corruption, crime, nepotism. They said that the government was socially responsible, that it would start production, employ a large number of people, and that it would thus fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. But these days, we've come to a congregation procedure with an agreement that we're already quoting here, and now I'm asking a question under Rule 226, so can the finance minister and some other minister. A famous contract signed by Boris Tadic with Condoleezza Rice on September 7th 2006. The contracts, Article 8(1), "For the purposes of implementing this Agreement and technical arrangements, the United States Department of Defence may conclude contracts relating to the supply of materials, supplies and equipment, as well as the provision of services, including construction in the Republic of Serbia, without restrictions on the choice of partners, suppliers and persons providing goods or providing services. These contracts are sought, assigned and implemented in accordance with the laws and regulations of the United States." Not the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Serbia, but the United States. "The purchase of goods and the provision of services in the Republic of Serbia by or on behalf of the United States for the implementation of this agreement is not subject to taxation, payment of customs duties and similar duties in the Republic of Serbia." I once again ask the question: are the institutions and citizens of the Republic of Serbia citizens of the second row in relation to the United States Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces here, or are we being prepared, through various agreements like this -- a silent occupation? What country do we live in? Where is any kind of patriotism here, even if it's economic? How can you give up customs, taxes and taxes? Tell us nicely that we should give this country to someone, get out of here, not fight for it anymore. How can you not be ashamed anymore?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10231	Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10232	I have to call Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I don't see another member I could call on. This article applies, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, to you and I do not think that you are acting in accordance with the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of Procedure in running this National Assembly. What's this about? I think that, by function, perhaps a little more professionally, you are obliged to have a conversation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of who the Prime Minister is, that 'Dinkic, da' Cvetkovic, da' Tadic, and to tell them, because you know very well what this means, which is a little bit and someone from the government or some other body does on the street, that this only encourages fear with the citizens of Serbia. About seven days someone trains strictness in this country, a little at Vujic, a little at Mladic's, now little in Arangelovac, tomorrow at your apartment citizens, and always under an excuse – someone is wanted. Now it may be Mladic, the day after tomorrow it will be Hadzic, who knows who will be on the agenda who they will be looking for. I can give you about an answer to the question – why all football games and basketball matches stick to that level of security risk because they simply exercise, on the one hand fans, on the other hand turtles, gendarmes. In the absence of polygons, in the absence of some better and better quality preparation for combat preparedness, they carry out internal exercises here. And Star - Partizan, siege of Belgrade, highways, turtles - fans and they practice. Who's playing with us? Mr. Mijaljevic read something from an agreement signed by Boris Tadic. Under that agreement, we have no sovereignty. This country is dedicated to the Americans. They can do anything here, anything they want. I think you have to call these from the government, tell them that you're therapeutically acting on them, no matter what Gilas and these promote through the media, the worse or the better, of course for some of the DS, but you have to relax this people a little, because this people live under constant stress. A little, a little, then something happens. I guess we should free the citizens of this fear and distract them when this "simplon express" passes through Serbia and when the financial global crisis comes, they will be better off, as Mladjan Dinkic and Djelic said. These in Europe have dropped their wages or will fall from 3,000 euros to 2,000 euros, as we go to Europe, they will practically grow here. (President: Time. ) We are looking forward to this economic crisis in order for Serbian citizens to get a higher salary, and as we heard after this Saturday's prey, the crowbars in your hands and keep your job, no one can drive you out of work. Please take the political and therapeutic action towards the government of this Mr. Cvetkovic, because this is really unsustainable, a little bit, so someone has to alarm what's going on in the country, because here you are putting us to sleep with some laws. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10233	Mr. Lightning, and then Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10234	Article 226. Ladies and gentlemen, in 15-20 days, privatisation is formally concluded in Serbia, the privatisation process ends, so companies that have not entered the privatisation formally have not reported a tender or auction, will be bankrupt or will be liquidated. Since workers are seriously concerned and many associations are trying to intervene with this country to extend the process, because they have so far failed to privatise themselves, they have failed to find a buyer for their social enterprises, I am asking the relevant questions of the Privatisation Agency and the competent ministry, which is: How long until today unprivatised enterprises in Serbia, how many privatisations have been cancelled, how many criminal charges against responsible persons and owners of privatised companies, and have these criminal reports been processed and in what extent? We are witnessing that governments have fallen in this country in recent years, coalition agreements are being made, it's all about self-privatisation going on and on and on people are afraid to talk about this privatisation, many are afraid for their positions and chairs, so even the RTS media service on this has not made any serious emissions. Even NGOs on this subject don't say anything, and I think it's very trendy that they don't talk about it either. Is there in this country those who will deal with this privatisation mafia, but before they are asked certain questions, which are: Why is the initial price in privatisation just 20% of the estimated value? Why are majority owners introduced into companies that buy immediately after the first war is paid? Then, who takes a commission of 5%; why are many of the customers of these privatisation companies, who are privatised, on Interpol's warrants; why are minority shareholders left to themselves and no one cares about them and no one protects them; why are tycoons from the former republics are allowed to buy our firms, to close them immediately, and to keep their businesses normally working; why are criminal charges against owners and tycoons being rejected or are not processed and kept in drawers; who are ministers, former and present, bought certain enterprises in Serbia and why the stock market serves the kidnapping of businesses? A thousand why, and the privatisation is coming to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10235	The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10236	I must admit that now that I have seen Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic leave this hall, because I remembered that on July 18th when she came out like this, she went to Boris Tadic, informing us that the assembly is disbanding, or that she is giving a break indefinitely. At that point, she already had information from Tadic that Radovan Karadzic was kidnapped. At the time, the one who helped kidnap, or who tipped Radovan Karadzic off. Today, something is happening about the alleged arrest of Ratko Mladic. We believe and want to believe that Ratko Mladic is inaccessible to those who are looking for him, we hope that is so, but whatever this is doing to the government of the Republic of Serbia and what the president of the country is doing is humiliating the citizens of Serbia, humiliating the dignity of this country. Aman, come on, act like statesmen, act like the government of this country, take care of national interests. Don't distract the public with any trivial stuff. Be serious about this House. For example, you, Mrs Dragutinović, yesterday I asked you nicely to inform us as far as today if the financial inspection was at the airport, what is going on, what was Bojan Kristo really doing there, what was the crime, whether there was crime, perhaps not, but we expect from the authorities. You came here today, and maybe now you're going to give an answer, and if I hadn't reminded you, you wouldn't have said anything, because you essentially don't care what we say, you don't care what the Serbian citizens say. This isn't personal again, I'm talking about the government and the president of the state. You've got something that you've plotted to be of interest to you. You do that and you fulfill it under every condition, it's not good for you either, but believe me, I don't care about you, as you don't care about the state, because it's not good for the state, it's not good for the citizens of Serbia, it's not good for the Serbian national interests. You're under obligation... (President: Please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured. ) Article 204, Mrs Comic, my dignity has been injured as a member of this House because I am ignored by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10237	I assume you meant Article 104. No injuries, the minister is listening to all the questions. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: I could answer, for from yesterday to this day she was assigned to answer. When and how we give her time to answer, she will answer questions. The explanation you gave for violating the dignity of the National Assembly does not stand. National MP Dusan Maric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since one part of the indictment against Ratko Mladic is based on the accusation that the army has committed ethnic cleansing under his command, I will take this opportunity, but I will have to report once more to the Rules of Procedure, to ask the question: Why is the state of Serbia not doing anything to protect the rights of its citizens who are victims of ethnic cleansing committed by Croats and Muslims in the BiH area? Namely, several thousand people from BiH live in Serbia, who have been prevented from returning to their previous properties, where they lived before and have been prevented from using their property. Since 1992 and the outbreak of war in BiH, the Federation of BiH has ethnically cleared and destroyed 527 settlements in which Serbs made an absolute majority of the population prior to the war. In war, the Muslim and Croatian authorities killed or expelled the entire population, and they banned those who survived after the war from returning to their property. Where their houses now existed in the weeds of the healed ruins, there are destroyed cemeteries, broken churches. There's no sign of life. Of these 527 settlements is located most in the area of the Herzegovina municipality of Rav – 71 settlements. 32 Serb settlements were destroyed at Ozren. In the upper stream of Vrbasa, in Bugojn and Gornji Vakufu Serbs there are no villages and villages in which the majority of the population seemed absolute before the war. One of the most beautiful Bosnian Sevdalin women begins with words - from Igman look nice, where Bosnia spills away. One who now looks at Igman can see 57 destroyed Serb villages where there are no living people. Unfortunately, return to Serbs is not impossible only in rural areas. There are cities in the Federation of BiH where the number of Serb returnees can be calculated on the fingers of two hands. I'll start with an example of my Kupres, but since my time is up, I'm reporting back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10239	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10240	Mrs. Komic, when I say Article 27, of course you know I don't mean you, since you sat in that place a few minutes ago, but this applies to Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Something must be done in that agreement between the government and the National Assembly. With less or more success, however, a quality debate is being held in the National Assembly on draft laws. They defend themselves to the amendment, they don't need to go in style as an MP defends his amendment, but this job goes. However, what is happening outside the congregation must inevitably affect the work of the National Assembly. The MPs are rightly looking for answers, information, and I called to pick up where I left off. We have to make a deal with the government, because anyone can say it in front of the state authority -- we're doing something by applying the laws. However, we often have a situation where the law is being misused in this application and in the way of law enforcement. This really seems depressing to the citizens of Serbia that every 10 days, seven days, 15 days, some information is echoed, and you know for yourself when they take these fast electronic media, now they force this information, as it was in Valjevo, the action is under way, look, from the mobile phone is recorded, the action "Chukarica" is under way, watch from the mobile phone, the action "Arangelovac", watch from the mobile phone. Why is someone scaring the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? No one from this pay phone has the right to ask not to apply the law. I'm very careful about that, because I don't want anyone to call me and the MPs can't say no law can apply, but this is an obvious example of abuse of law enforcement. A little bit of a minor emergency is being made in the Republic of Serbia. For what? Because of some small things that someone has promised and someone has to do. Someone made a promise, and now he's doing it. That it suits our interests, that it doesn't answer, that it's going into something that's abuse of the law, it doesn't interest him. He promised something, there must be some halabuca, but out of that halabuca, only the citizens are depressed, they simply see that life loses any dignity in us here. Anyone can do whatever they want. Is the law applicable? How is the law applied? In what man swears to be his guarantee of security for his respect and respect, and honor and dignity, etc. It's got to stop sometime. If that doesn't stop, then we're all becoming one dough that can shape whoever we want. I fully understand one or those who, in order to remain in power, have promised everything and everything to that West. I understand their fear, because we have bitter experiences with that West, when something promises at all costs, so it doesn't work out, how they level it up. But, please, make sure that politics is managed for the sake of citizens, not for some personal interest. I ask you to in some way influence to get out of this situation, because this situation only reproduces fear among citizens, loss of dignity and apathy in the population. We're not supposed to stand for it, we're supposed to stand for something else. We have to be the opposition and fear, we have to be the opposition to poverty, we have to undo it all to get the people on their feet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10241	The word has a folk letter from Marina Toman. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. There's no damage to article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10242	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225, 226. I'm asking for a notice from the competent state authorities. Namely, the SRS repeatedly points to the problems of Serbs in KIM, i.e. the difficult conditions of their lives and the carelessness of the state. I ask Minister Rasim Ljajic, in charge of labour and social policy, for information on whether this ministry has records of how many Serbs in KIM are unemployed, how many live below the lower poverty line? Also, I ask that the SRS parliamentary group be provided with a programme and a social care plan for the most vulnerable categories of the Serb population in KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10243	I would ask the service to refer a stenogram of Ms. Marine Toman's presentation to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, or Minister Rasim Ljajic, with a request to explain and provide information. National MP Nikola Savic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. This morning, when we started this session, in this room there was Minister of Human and Minority Rights Mr Svetozar Chiplic. He was defending a law that wasn't particularly competent by his ministry. You know that only by the good will of the opposition were we allowed to discuss these amendments until the official authority of the government arrived, to see if Svetozar Ciplic was really responsible for the amendments defended by the opposition, and he represented the government under these amendments. I wanted to say something else. I think that right now Svetozar Ciplic would be needed to find himself in this assembly, because we heard from the Vice President of the Assembly, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, that human and private rights of a citizen from the city of Arangelovac, Mr. Ljubinko Zlatic, where special anti-terrorism units and members of other types of security authorities have fallen into his house and there allegedly sought Ratko Mladic. I do wonder, and these citizens should wonder, how many Serbian families and how many Serbian hosts should be disturbed, harassed, because someone is looking for Ratko Mladic and they cannot find him. I believe and sincerely hope they will never be able to find and catch Ratko Mladic, and I am sure there are so many Serb families in Serbia and so many Serb hosts who are willing to, if necessary, protect Ratko Mladic, so I say again, they will certainly not be able to find him. He should also know that there are small children in these houses that search the forces of the police, have emotional people, and that this leaves trauma to these people. Indeed, I would ask the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, Mr. Chiplic, to stand up for these people who have survived such tortures so far, to be seen in some way to replace their mental pain, who have suffered because of this fact that I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10245	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10246	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, I request a notice from the Justice Ministry on what the state of Serbia, as signator of the Dayton Agreement, is doing to protect the human and property rights of Serbs from BiH, many of whom, meanwhile, have become citizens of Serbia? I'll pick up where I left off. I was talking about ethnic cleansing, about the proportions of ethnic cleansing of Serbs from BiH. In Kupres, where I was born, Serbs accounted for 60% of the population, made up two-thirds of the population in the city of Kupres and owned more than two-thirds of the land in the city of Kupres. Now in Kupres, you have eight Serbs, the average age of 63. Nine Serbs live in the neighbouring town of Duvno, Tomislavgrad. There has been no Serb in Capljina since 1992. Only 18 live in the key. There were 16,000 Serbs living in Bihaq before the war. Now there are 380 of them. Among the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are one of the victims of ethnic cleansing from Bihac, Mrs. Milica Radovic. Of the pre-war 24,000 Serbs in the Sansa Most, 2,500 of them now live there. The largest ethnic cleansing was carried out in Sarajevo. Of the pre-war 160,000 Serbs, living in the BiH capital, there are now 7,000. They do not have the right to work, let alone the right to executive jobs in companies and political functions. To show you what conditions Serb returnees live in the Federation of BiH, I will provide another information. At least 70 Serb settlements in the Federation of BiH, with a total population of 15,500, including 2,200 children, still lack electricity. I remind you, it's been 13 years since the war in BiH. I think that every time they talk about ethnic cleansing, about the war in BiH, about Ratko Mladic, about alleged war crimes committed by members of the Serbian military and police that officials in Belgrade should take care of this data. Once again, I ask for a notice - why does the state of Serbia do absolutely nothing to protect civil rights, the property rights of its citizens who have been expelled from BiH?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10247	The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10248	Mrs. Komic, I am convinced that this time you will admit that you have violated the Rules of Procedure and Article 27, paragraph 1, point 3, and in relation to Article 121. Since we are talking about very serious things, based on the Rules of Procedure and the opportunities that the Rules of Procedure give us, I would like to inform the public of Serbia that the information on this table that is on this side, in the congregation majority, of this existing and the other 52 people, is not true. All 13 MPs are on that side of the hall. I really expect you to notice such things, Mrs. Comic. I risk, like the last time I turned my attention to that fact and that information, turning off the microphone. I don't know why you got angry then. I just wanted to be of good faith to help you, or to draw attention to you to invite the services to reset this situation, to pick up the cards of MPs who did not bring them to themselves, in accordance with Article 121. I'm just asking you not to talk in the context of an explanation about how we, MPs of the SRS, are sitting in an O.R. and we don't put identification cards on this side. Of course, we are MPs of the opposition and we can do it. But those who represent power must not deceive, because citizens see that we are here, because we are in this place, which we are saying, which draws attention to them, which we warn them about the poor work of the government, the dangers that have prevailed over Serbia, the problems of the Serbs at KIM, corruption and crime; much that can be put on the soul of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the soul of the president of the state. But you from the congregation majority are bound, as many as you are, to be presented on this board as well. Please, in accordance with Article 121, call for professional services and determine exactly how many MPs there are in the O.R. You do not have the right, at least, to deceive the citizens of Serbia, because there is indeed enough deception for this people and citizens of Serbia, primarily from the Serbian government, by the President of the Republic. There are plenty of fears and fears that citizens suffer daily from losing their jobs, to what the Eulex mission to KIM will do, who gave them the consent to go there without the Parliament's consent. I'm sorry, my time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10249	I thank you for reminding me of the violation of article 121 of the various MPs. I ask the service of the National Assembly to remove cards from the electronic voting system which MPs, respecting Article 121, did not bring to themselves from the hall, and those provisions. 121 and 122 apply to all MPs. Please do not tell the lies behind the pay phone that the representatives of the majority have any different rights than the representatives of the parliamentary minority. We have equal obligations, equal rights and equal responsibilities under the Rules of Procedure when it comes to Members 121 and 122, and there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure which, whatever MP's group belongs, would release the obligations to carry its own MP card, register on entry into the room and take his own card with him. The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10250	Dear Presidency, colleagues, I would like to ask again a question under Rule 226 of the Socially Responsible Government, the government that promised us hundreds of thousands of jobs in the election campaign. How they think to fill the budget, respecting Article 8(2)'s position. The contract, signed by the president of the state, Boris Tadic, with US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, reads as follows: "The US Partners will be exempt from paying taxes or similar taxes applied in the Republic of Serbia and can import, export and use personal property, equipment, supplies, materials, technology, conduct training and provide services related to the execution of the US contract under this agreement. Such imports, exports and use will be exempt from approval procedures, other restrictions, customs payments, taxes and other duties in the Republic of Serbia. 'Cause you really don't believe it. I simply cannot believe that someone from the government had the courage to offer such an agreement to the Serbian Parliament that we would ratify it here. Article 4 is further said - to facilitate the implementation of this article, the US authorities will inform Serbia's competent authorities on the names of the partners with which the contracts are concluded, including the date on which they expire. Look at this, on the one hand, you have it that certain institutions, the state authorities of the Serbian state, cannot verify, cannot customs or interfere with US military partners, who will reign here in the state of Serbia, and on the other hand they will allegedly inform our institutions that are their partners that will pass through the country of Serbia. In other words, that means - we will inform certain institutions of the Serbian state not to interfere with our partners, not to bother them and to stay out of their way, even on the road they pass by. Since we can't check them, don't you think it's precisely on the road from Pakistan, Afghanistan, through Iraq, through Turkey, through Serbia to Western Europe, where certain substances, narcotics, etc. are being smuggled and transported, are going to be sealed and sealed in these vehicles, which our services, our customs and our institutions are not allowed to verify. Please respond, under Article 226, of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Police, and the Prime Minister may be a little involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10251	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10252	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advertising members 225 and 226. Five days ago, I brought it out here in public, but when the fire started in Loznica i.e. I've been to Loznica today, I've been to Loznica, I've been to Loznica, thank God it's good, it could have been one of the biggest disasters, environmental disasters in the area. What's important and what I came out to say is that we're the SRS, the municipal board, and my little one on many occasions saying how much the Viskoza robbery, especially those secondary raw materials, which are cut down with welding machines, brasils, where the sparks appear normally, and knowing, because I've worked in that factory for many years, I know that every metre of that space is dangerous to work with fire and when something is done or weeds are always there, one of the firefighters is there. And it wouldn't be a big deal if the services, especially the inspector, the crime inspectors, the environmental inspectors responded immediately when we talked about it a month ago, most likely by my judgment, this wouldn't have happened. Even some directors are involved in the theft at Viskoza. Today I heard from the workers of Cellulose who came today, and we had a press conference, when they saw them stealing and taking these secondary raw materials, asked the director if he was familiar with it. Most likely, as soon as he said - I can work, they didn't come to yours, they came to mine. You see, as far as it comes, how much freedom they have when the Democrats or anyone else comes into power, that they can steal and take what allows them, most likely, that local government or government, thank God, in Serbia. So I ask all the organs that are required to examine why she came, as I was familiar and as the workers told me, a group that went down to cut, in fact, to extract secondary raw materials to sell and earn some money. Believe me, it's all about meeting the directors and those responsible for it at the Viskoza.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10253	Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta, please. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We've been talking for the last hour about what's been up to date, and it's been a long time now, how and how the representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia are condescendingly fulfilling Serge Brammertz's orders to get to him, so he can say a nice word about them somewhere. Of course, of these nice or whatever words Serbia and Serbian citizens will have nothing, because Serge Brammertz will praise you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, from the Serbian government and Mr Boris Tadic, that does not mean that he will open the EU door for you. That door will be opened to you when you admit publicly that Kosovo and Metohija are occupied, and it is occupied by Eulex, because someone signed it, and we still don't know who, because this parliament has not given a positive opinion or consent to such a thing. After that, you'll have to meet the conditions of good neighbors, because that's what they're going to ask you to do and what you're ready to meet, and then there goes the Duke's Constitution, the first step towards separating the Vojvodina. That's what DS stands for. The fact that "it's not true" we'll explain ourselves here if that, God forbid, comes on the agenda. When we talked about other things, dear colleague, you are, not personally, saying you are not true, not true, but now I call you, come out immediately, because every time we mention Vojvodina, you react that something is not true, now I call you, come out and explain in accordance with the Rules of Procedure what is not true and what Serbia will get well from the separation of Vojvodina, which you stand for. It's tragic and it's terrible. I am asking now, based on the members of 225 and 226, Mrs. Komic, to urgently get an explanation of what is happening in Arangelovac today, what is happening today in the surrounding of the Arangelovac, who is next, that people are preparing to get ready, because they are attacking the children because they are not speaking Serbian, the people are scared, we are urgently looking for information and a statement about what is happening today in Arangelovac?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10255	National MP Dobrislav Prelic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. I request information from the Government of the Republic of Serbia - when will it stop throwing dust in the eyes of Serbian citizens? When will he stop making false promises and implement US and EU policies? When will Minister Jeremic start representing Serbia's interests, rather than doing everything by order and in agreement with Washington and Brussels? The alleged victory, when we received the UN's opinion to accept Serbia's initiative to justify the International Court's opinion on Kosovo's independence, immediately after a day or two, our brotherly Montenegro and friendly Macedonia recognised Kosovo's independence. Installing Eulex is proof that this government is powerless and simply wants to implement foreign intelligence policies, Washington and Brussels. The next step is the AP Vojvodina. Here's how. Bojan Pajtic, president of the Executive Council, probably since he was not prime minister, wants to be Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina. The budget received by the AP Vojvodina, up to 7%, primarily served to buy votes in the AP Vojvodina, to execute a warrant of foreign intelligence services in Vojvodina, to work on the secession of Vojvodina from Serbia. The foreign intelligence services of Great Britain, the United States and Germany are buying the country with large capital in the AP Vojvodina. In addition, Croatian tycoons bought huge plots and a large area of land in the AP Vojvodina, through its tycoon, the most famous in Croatia, Ivica Todorovic. He directly receives money from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and from Germany, and I have proof of that, because I was in Germany, in front of Odzaki municipality, when one minister in Bad Shimborn, that's near Stuttgart, said, and I was translated by one of our men, that the German government will work until 2010 to return the country to the former Danube Krauts in Vojvodina. It's true and it's a fact that no one can escape from. I am sure that all this, first of all, Boris Tadic tried to do in Serbia by breaking the opposition and trying to break into the SRS, that he would not succeed and that he would have anyone to protect, above all, the interests of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10257	National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10258	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my third term is in this assembly. Yesterday I experienced one of the greatest humiliations as an MP for the National Assembly. In fact, the Foreign Affairs Committee rather than meeting, you know how much the interest of MPs and journalists was, because yesterday the foreign minister attended, instead of meeting in one of the big halls, they packed us up on the third floor, in an O.R. that couldn't even take the board. When we got here, we couldn't find a place to sit. Thanks to the secretary of the board's up, she took a seat, so I could sit down. There was so much interest in MPs, and members who attended, as well as members of the board, for the discussion, on foreign affairs issues. He said, with all due respect to all of you, at half past two I have a cabinet session and I have to be in the government by two. Since I couldn't ask him yesterday, by the way. 225th and 226, Madam Chairman, I'm asking him now. Who allowed Eulex to be installed that way? Boris Tadic, right. One of the conclusions of Saturday's pleum was that Serbia should remain silent while the last straw of rescue for KIM, Resolution 1244, brutally tramples, that Serbia is silent and that instead of those in KIM, the Eulexi Ahtisaari's plan to kidnap KIM, to create a state in the part of Serbian territory, is being implemented slowly. I ask Boris Tadic, the president of this country, who took an oath before us, in that House above, that he will respect the Constitution, that he will fight for the territorial, state integrity of the Serbian state, why today this same Boris Tadic is silent? Why is the yellow company silent? Why does the Serbian Government keep quiet? Why doesn't the foreign minister have time for MPs, for representatives of the government? Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the three equal branches of government, executive, legislative and judicial, the legislation is a little more even, because they swear before us, not us in front of them. They're the ones we need to make the bills, not us to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10259	I'm setting a break. The paper continues at 15.15 hours of debate in particular on Article 76, on which the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Thank you. [[After break – 15/15]] We continue to work in the afternoon session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the afternoon, we stopped at the amendment submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the morning part of the debate, we addressed a part of the work day before the end of that afternoon work on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The immediate cause of this was the knowledge we had, and related to something that was happening in Arangelovac, allegedly arresting one of the Hague refugees, as presented in the electronic media. We heard some family was harassed there. That's the information we got from the people on the ground, but we asked for someone from the government of the Republic of Serbia to tell us urgently what it was really about. We still think it's necessary and we can't go over such important things by taking a one-hour break in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and acting like nothing happened after that break. Yeah, it happened, it happened. We need to know the MPs, we need to know the citizens of Serbia what was actually going on, what was the action, who was running the action. According to the information we received, that action was led by an M6 officer. These are very dangerous things for the state of Serbia, for the integrity of our country and we insist, and we will insist as long as we do not get a notice from you, Madam Chairman, and you will definitely ask the authorities to find out what was going on, as long as the citizens of Serbia are harassed to meet Serge Brammertz, so that someone will please any EU officials, and all of this to the detriment of Serbian citizens. You must no longer be afraid of Serbian citizens, you must act as responsible and serious authorities. Since we still don't have the right information, we hope it's been the same as before, that they've all been there except Ratko Mladic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10262	Anyone else want a word? National MP Dušanka Plecevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure and ask for an answer from the Serbian government: How will the remaining Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija protect after UNMIK finishes his job? I ask this question because everyone but Shiptara finds themselves in great fear and fear for a naked life. I was not fooled by the Shyptarian demonstrations against Eulex and their alleged opposition to its installation. I am very familiar with their acting in the 1980s, when they escalated their rampage against the state of Serbia, the Serbian people and all those who moved out of their homes from Cosmeta under their terror. Among them are a large number of their countrymen who did not bow to their tribal and drug lords. It is not likely that the assembly majority forgot that banal protest in the mining pit and the alleged intervention of Stipe Mesic about the alleged calming of the alleged oppressed Shipars. You haven't forgotten that disguise as an old lady in a stadium in Pristina, Azem Vlasi, the future ambassador to the so-called ambassador. Kosovo states in Montenegro. The younger DOS MPs or now the ZES may not remember, but they can ask their older colleagues to explain to them what happened in the '80s, only if they haven't erased their memory, if some force hasn't erased their memory of that period. With some agreement between Tadic and the UN, Eulex, which is called a mission in our media, has crawled into the Serbian nation's world in a secret, vampire, 9.12.2008. None of us opposition MPs are familiar with the content of the alleged contract, so it is the gravest violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Tadic had neither the mandate of the National Assembly to conclude international agreements nor anyone from the government nor such an agreement has any importance until it is ratified in our assembly. The assembly must obviously not know about the content of this agreement. He is only praised by Tadic, Djelic, Dinkic and some NGOs, just us, legal representatives of citizens, this great so-called so-called. The diplomatic victory is unknown. There's no response from the actors of this illegal act. On our legitimate questions, we receive warnings, warnings, until the session of the Assembly is cut short. For this reason, I am convinced that everything about this mysterious, allegedly status-neuteral mission has been done unconstitutionally, and therefore also unfairly and harmfully to the state of Serbia and to the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10264	National MP Vladan Jeremic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I am using my right to request an explanation from the members of the Assembly on the basis of Rule 226 of the Rules of Procedure, and I am sure it is the Ministry of Local Self-Government in this case, and for the event at the SO Mladenec session, held on 2 December 2008. In fact, the congregation majority in the town municipality of Mladenovac also showed at the constitutive session of manners to be conducted in the work. So we have witnessed that, let's say, the number of those who vote in favour and against together is greater than the total number of council members of the congregation in Mladenov. Then, despite the recognition of the then Secretary of the Assembly that, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government and Rules of Procedure, the Administrative-Mandating Commission was to form representatives of the three electoral lists, which won the largest number of votes, where the SRS belonged to it, the body was formed exclusively by representatives of the assembly majority. And so, while the citizens of Mladnjevci are finding it increasingly difficult to provide the basic conditions for living existence, or rather, to survive from today to tomorrow, the majority that all of them are making, contrary to the SRS that remained in opposition with the citizens, continues with legal terror. Here's what happened at the previous session of SO Mladen. You heard that the parliament numbers 55 deputies, seven SRS deputies are not taking part in the vote on the first item of the agenda, which was due to meeting coalition agreements by the assembly majority, and made possible by the new statute of the Belgrade City Assembly. Therefore, for a decision to suspend the term of office for four committees, 48 committees have been voted on, which has taken a decision to suspend their term of office. The proposal then follows that the mandates be suspended by three other committee members. Now, what's amazing, again is 48 votes for. So we have seven committee members who have found the end of the term of office, but who, by chance, continue to take part in the vote next, which is only the third one, the verification of the new seven committee members. The question I ask is, have those who have lost their mandate voted for these decisions or perhaps hastened those who have yet to have their mandates verified? What, then, about the legitimacy of all the decisions that were then made at the meeting of the Assembly? It's known that what's fast, it's also short. Apparently, the congregation majority in Mladenov rushed to share a sweet cake, while citizens could only drink another bitter pill.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10266	The word has been made by MP Zoran Popovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, because I need certain notices from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy, so that I can carry out my duty as MP. In Serbia, the arrival of DOS introduces a strange practice that is nowhere in this world, there is no practice in any country. Namely, it has been found that Slovenian firms in Serbia do not pay taxes to the state of the Republic of Serbia. Slovenia and Slovenian firms in Serbia act as if Serbia is their colony and, therefore, do not have to pay taxes to their colony, nor respect Serbia's laws. From the daily press, Serbia has been informed that Slovenia's Mercator built a department store in Nis without any single paper or license. All the bans of construction inspections from Nis, the boasting investor from the country who shot at us more than 100 children in a JNA uniform, he didn't pay attention. He was right to act like that because we forgave them the shooting of over 100 JNA soldiers, and why not some formal papers and building permits? In Novi Sad, they wanted to tear down the FK "Vojvodina" stadium and build a department store in its place, but football legends came up on their feet and prevented that ludicrous and brazen act. This is just an introduction to understand the behavior of the country's representative who first started breaking our country and who at the crime of shooting a hundred JNA soldiers and created her own country. According to the tax card of the taxpayer "M. Rodić", PIB r. 104414232, in the tax account No. 714112, which was otherwise delivered to Mladjan Dinkic, as the then Minister of Finance and the Republic Public Prosecutor for the Prevention of Organized Crime, only in the period from the founding of 23.5.2006 to 21.5.2007, the obligations for payment of VAT amounting to 1,024.075.067 or 12.800.938.34 euros, which on the same tax card on the long-term side were illegally entered into and entered into with the debt-side situation and in the balance of payment obligations for VAT were declared as not existing. The founder of a limited liability society "M. Rodić" Novi Sad is a business system "Merkator". It is material proof that Mercator does not pay taxes to Serbia. We have information that the president of the Green Coalition has presented the tax card of the taxpayer "M. Rodic" to Mladjan Dinkic, indicating that it was a gift to Serbia's 12.8m-euro budget, but there was no reaction. The Republic's public prosecutor for the repression of organised crime has voluntarily overqualified the criminal charges into a common criminal offence and sent a deputy municipal public prosecutor in Novi Sad, Mr. Holcer, who has done nothing again in a year and a half. The tax administration's question was asked an unequivocal contract that Mercator did not pay the tax, but that he is no longer in their jurisdiction, but that he is in charge of the Centre of Great Tax Liberties. So today, in public and in front of the general public, I ask the Prime Minister: Who founded and under what law did the Center of the Great Tax Liberates? (President: three minutes, 30 seconds. I'm done. By what law or regulation does this center of large taxpayers work? Another question, if Slovenian firms do not pay taxes to Serbia, I ask a public question to the Prime Minister and finance minister, to whom do Slovenian firms pay a racket?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10268	Anyone else want a word? Members of the 82nd amendment were submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: someone else would like a word.) People's MPs, I asked if anyone else wanted a word, I waited and asked, including counterpart Natasu Jovanovic who said no. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, no. ) If you really think the chairman is asking if anyone wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, please concentrate on monitoring the course of the session. counterpart Natasa Jovanovic said - no and that was my confirmation that no one wants a word anymore, so I moved on to the next amendment. As MPs with insufficient attention follow the meeting, we return to the amendment to Article 76, which was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to Article 76. Public procurement laws to delete Section 4. Before I say anything about this amendment, citizens must know, whatever law you propose or pass, in those laws we have administrations and agencies. Why are we being served by these administrations and agencies? It's clear to everyone - for the employment of party people and money laundering. At the head of every administration or agency is a party man who gets a direct order from the minister and therefore in every area we have a mafioso. The final example is the gas mafia and the increase in gas prices for citizens by 60%. One is true -- that the gas agreement for Serbian citizens is good, through this master's water the citizens of Serbia will receive, for the next two years, all households, natural gas. All the other stores were seen by the citizens, there are two lobbies here. It's clear to everyone here that these lobbies want this agreement with Russia and the Russian Federation not to go away. I'll tell you examples of public procurement and tender from the town of Kruševec, where I come from, from the Directorate for Urbanism, Gerontological Centre and Home of Health. It's a little interesting here that all the directors in these institutions and organizations were G17 people, that there are no directors from any other political party. In the Directorate for Urbanism, former director, name and name - Mile Petrovic, G17, amazing actions were made. There are over 20 such contracts. I'll tell you one example, the basic contract - 11.200,000 dinars, additional works 14,000,000, a total of 25,200,000 dinars. We know, according to the Public Procurement Act, that the increase can only be 25%, not 150%, as seen here. There's no director anywhere. He's not the director anymore. The director of the Directorate for Urbanism is from the SRS Dr Milan Punisic. We've handed all these actions over to the investigative authorities and, in the end, we hope they'll finish the job by law. We have another example: Home of Health, Dr. Vojkan Kulic, G17, again. Here we have health homes, health stations in Kruševec. The territory of Kruševac over 50 of these health stations has been renovated. Amazing numbers are mentioned here. The basic contract of 200,000 dinars for an ordinary health care station went out seven times more. The home of health has been completely renovated, the purchase of appliances, furniture, and no one else has been able to work, you will correct me, if I am wrong, the firm "Tresna" from Belgrade, by order of the minister. The Gerontological Centre in Krusevec, the replacement of the carpentry, was a tender, people reported by law to the tender, the best offer was given by the firm from Kruševac, 21 million and 800 dinars, the tender was annulled, no one can work from Kruševac, the minister has to work for companies from Belgrade, 58 million and 200,000 dinars. I have to tell you the truth here, there are no people out of the SRS, a year and eight months ago I got a phone call from the SRS at 9:24, I got a call from Mrs. Ljilja to call the vice president of the party, and then, who I don't know the name now, I forgot, I answered the phone, and he told me -- don't touch that man, he's our man. I didn't listen to it, we were still at the press conferences going out with it because I was suspicious. Before that, in the office of the same man, I was invited to the Parish, where Violeta Josifov was then owned, there was a talk about privatizing the Parish, where she said, in front of me and in front of him, that she had bought it by law. When she came out, Miskovic was invited to the phone and it was said that Momcilo Duvnjak was with him and that I would no longer call Miskovic that he participated in the privatisation and destruction of Zupa. I didn't stop again, because Miskovic participated and destroyed Zupu, a cruise economy and I can tell you openly that a genocide was made in 2005 in the cruise economy. You know very well that Kruševac was the strongest industrial city. We don't even have "Zupu", "Merima", "July 22nd", "Pepak", "Rubin", "Jastro" and "Trail", "The Hawk", "Shik", "Electrouniversal". No company works anymore. Here I have the right to question and to doubt. Two months ago, we had an explosion at Trayla. I claim from this pay phone that the explosion was set up by the owner, who is from Bulgaria. The state has to help Trayla. We in the SRS are not about this privatisation being annulled, we're just asking the owner to honor all the contracts, because if there's no "Strayal" and "14 October", there's no Kruševec anymore, everyone knows that. It's the state's fault, the state didn't give us a statement about this, the owner wouldn't let us go into the factory, and we're down there, running power, the SRS, the DSS and the SPS. We need to get an answer to this. I'll just give you one example of what was done in Krushevec. By 2000, Kruševac had 45,000 employees. After 2000, from October 5th, there were 30,000 people left without a job, so you mathematically multiply it, 30,000 times 20,000 salaries, which is 600 million dinars every month less in the town of Krusevec. Did anyone have to destroy the parish chemical industry? The first blue stone factory in Europe, founded in 1934. Can any vineyard in Serbia give birth to grapes without the Parish? He can't do it without a blue stone. Can we have a healthy drink of water without the Parish? We can't. The Parish produces the best chlorine. They will and they wanted to, we wouldn't let them sell the cruise water to the French firm Veli. Why am I saying this? That same "Voli" now, since the privatisation of Violetta Josephov was taken away, has been annulled, wants to sell "Zupo" to that same French firm. That French firm has twice the quality of chlorine and everything. I think here some people who think they're professional, that they know everything, should come to the town of Krushevac, see what they do and how they do business. I claim from this pay phone that we from the SRS are proud to be there in power, we have the highest councilman, we have won, with the DSS and the SPS people, we are a rare city that has no dinar debt. You have seen in the last two months, Kruševac is a city where this coalition is not the same, you see for yourself, as at the republican level, which has all the praises of those people who are your ministers, the adhesion of local self-government Minister Milan Markovic. Finally, I suggested that paragraph 4 be deleted from Article 76 of the Public Procurement Act. This member wants the finance minister to control and influence them already when the bids are opened. An additional question arises - why, then, the formation of administration, the republican commission for the protection of the rights of bidders and other forms of bureaucratic apparatus? What's the big deal about an offer assessment? Preparations meet the conditions, deadlines are given, standards, professional references and other criteria are proven. all forward falls into the water, as a minister appears in charge of the financial affairs, which regulates the opening process and prescribes patterns for keeping records and opening tenders. It shows here that the minister favors his bidders. He's supposed to keep the bidder's business secret, it's never been until now. This is an area where big bribes and corruption and the minister doesn't want to leave anything to the case and everywhere he wants to be present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10270	Anyone else want a word? If not, before we move on to the next amendment, I would like to inform you that today, on the basis of Article 85(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, working even after 6:00 p.m., and by discussing the item of the agenda, which at 6:00 p.m. is on the agenda, but not later than 9:00 p.m. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 82(2), which says, "If the bidder whose offer has been chosen as the most favourable refuses to conclude a contract on public procurement, the client can conclude a contract with the next most favourable bidder. '"I suggested that the word "can" be replaced by the word "must," that the last one on the list should not be allowed to get a job with the worst offer. Namely, when the competition is over, if the best offer for any reason cannot be realised, I think the client should accept the next best offer, or the second one on the list. This would prevent the business from being concluded with a lower ranking on the list, as this article may lead to the conclusion of a contract with the last placed bidder. Such contracts must not be allowed to be concluded, i.e. to skip a series of more favourable offers, i.e. to pick one, say the seventh from the list, and bypass the rankings from second to sixth place. If a contract is concluded with someone on the list of bidders, then it must be the best-ranked offer, and it must not be, as it stands in the "can". So it has to be the best-ranked offer. That is why this amendment proposes erasing the word "can" and putting the words "must" instead. The past period in public procurement marked a large number of malfeasances. The affairs are represented in all segments of society, in all areas. The public procurement affair didn't bypass the army either. We recall the agreement between the ministry of Serbia and Montenegro, which it concluded, according to the country's harmful military equipment procurement contracts, worth about 300m euros. In just a few days, product prices have increased significantly, so helmets, which were to be paid 200 euros, paid 250, have increased the price from 1,200 to 1,750 euros, and masks from 280 to 445 euros. At a price difference of only these three products, the state is damaged by 40m euros. The Department of Defense spent a large part of the money outside of dedicated spending intended for the budget. Obligations to suppliers were 2.8 billion dinars, and they grew to incredible six billion dinars. As far as the military is concerned, it has been noted that, in time, as much as fourm euros have been paid for the remont of military planes, more than the price reached in the tender. The most dramatic violation of public procurement laws also took place by the University of Belgrade company, which concluded a contract without a tender with Croatia's Vortex on the dress of athletes. One in a series of affairs that caused damage to the state is the one that took part in Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, with 11 others, who were accused of obtaining a personal benefit from millions of dinars in the design of the project and reconstruction of terminals two and Vip salons at the airport. In fact, they benefited from about 60 million dinars by illegally taking most of the money into account by inflating entry invoices. The original investigation lasted more than a year. The accused are charged that from March 2003 to April 2004, during the reconstructions mentioned, they damaged the country by about 220 million dinars. It all started from a criminal application on September 24, 2004, and the occasion of the art paintings were bought for the Vip Salon. As everything is high, the best testimony is to buy these 24 paintings. In fact, Kolubara-Investment acquired them for a million and a half dinars, and as much as eight million dinars were charged. It is about pictures of Mica Popovic, Olje Ivanjički, Save Stojkov and Cilet Marinković. The price paid is five times the market price. The equipment of the Vip Salon was entrusted to the already mentioned company "Collubara -Investment", while the total value of works and equipment was hundreds of millions of dinars. The area is paved with a special stone from Brazil, which is rarely used in Brazil, and hot tubs are also installed for relaxation. There were impressive prices of decorative plants placed outside the entrance to the VIP salon. Ficus 30,000, Benjamin 70, and for two plants, the entire 100,000 dinars have gone. Internal control in November 2004 revealed that the prices of certain items have increased dramatically, even up to 30 times. The four-sed, which could be bought for 33,000 dinars, what its real and market price is in the furniture salons, has been paid an incredible 982,000 dinars, nearly a million dinars for a single four-seater. A 17-thousand chair has been paid for as much as 723 thousand. It's identical in the furniture salons, which is an increase of 42 times. The famous coffee spoons 630 dinars, instead of 25, a garbage can of 12,000, a napkin holder of 16,000 dinars, etc. Finally, regarding the airport affair, I would like to point out that the agreed transactions were expanded by annexes, which exceeded the basic contract multiplely. The basic contract of one job at the airport set the value of 16 million dinars, although the maximum amount of annex could have been four million dinars, it amounted to as much as 60 million dinars, or 15 times more. It's just amazing. A 16 million dinar contract, and a contract annex of 60 million dinars. Our latest affairs are coming from health care, which is from the homes of Palilula, Starr, KBC Refugee Hair, KBC Zemun and KBC Starr. As we can see, no area has gone beyond affairs when it comes to public procurement conducted by the yellow company. These centres concluded that the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and the Budgetary System Act were violated. In the equipment of the KBC, Bezaniska hair, 200,000 dinars were paid a bench for a waiting room with three seats. Ofinger, with an umbrella holder, 13,000 dinars, identical in salons cost 2,400 dinars. The tea kitchen, whose real price is 80,000, has been paid an incredible 750,000 dinars. The files instead of 16 grand, 121,000 dinars were paid. The director of Zvezda Zvezda Branka Grujic approved the payment of the dresser 33,000 dinars, worth 6,600 dinars, and the conference table for electronic communications, as many as 777 thousand dinars. Director of the House of Health Palilula Jasminka Jelic concluded a contract on business co-operation without the consent of the Management Board of the House of Health, which is contrary to the statute of the institution and without the consent of the Republic Property Directorate. This contract refers to furniture. The director didn't register the reception of the furniture. She then launched a procedure for public procurement of medical furniture, according to the same one that ended with a recommendation from the public procurement commission that the procedure be annulled. It was seen that the furniture was the same, that there was no competition, and that the procurement process was farce itself. From February to July 2008 in the same home of health, besides regular earnings, the salaries were included in the professional team awards, so that the health home paid a total of 599.1114 dinars, which is above the amount allowed by law. The latest public procurement affair took place in the MUP. Several people have damaged Serbia's MUP for millions of dinars by misusing the situation and falsifying the documents. They have been reportedly suspected of receiving and giving bribes, as well as tax evasion related to the purchase of clothes for members of the MUP. They concluded a contract with the MUP on production and delivery of a certain quality and that, using falsified findings and bribing the MUP reference, they supplied goods of far worse quality. Certain bidders have been favored in the supply of goods. Often in the MUP, goods were made worse than agreed, saving large amounts of money that were shared between suppliers, favored companies and control organisations. Many bidders can't even get to the score, because in collaboration with the laboratory, the causes are often replaced in the MUP, the worse they send for analysis and thus lose the right to participate in the tender. When purchasing the uniform, the competent authority in the MUP shall determine the material, then inform the close firm of the type of material. The owners of these companies agree on where to do the basic analysis, and then the counteranalysis that is done under the code, but which these individuals get from the people in the MUP. The first shipment of goods is in line with the requirements of the competition, and most of the goods become a second quality. For example, 20% are delivered properly and all necessary analyses are made for the reception of goods, and other goods of far worse quality are not controlled, because all analyses are taken from the previous proper delivery. Last year there were 700 complaints about the regularity of the tender and half of those tenders were annulled, which in part. The value of purchases in the MUP at an annual level exceeds 35m euros, and a quarter of that money, i.e. slightly more than eightm euros, goes to the companies for which tenders are placed. There are about 40,000 people working in the MUP, so a huge number of shirts, ties, pants, etc. is bought annually. The question is how special equipment, fuel, motor vehicle purchases, the selection of companies that repair them, etc. Last year, the value of purchases in the MUP amounted to three billion 162 million 279 thousand dinars, of which the large purchases that went through the tender amounted to 2,698,237,000 dinars, and the remaining were low-value purchases. I brought forth a series of affairs that were happening in our society in the past. I've brought out affairs in the military, the MUP, home of health, the KBC, at the airport. There's a lot of them. Public procurement, unfortunately, was not controlled in the previous period, although there was a law. I don't believe that anything important will change by adopting this new law on public procurement, because it's important to control how these tenders are conducted, how public procurement is carried out. The law, even though it's good, if we don't stick to it, it won't do us any good.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10272	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Vladan Jeremic has submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia spends annually on public procurement of at least four billion euros, and the largest participation in these procurements is public enterprises, republican and municipal. Their participation was about 60% of the total value of registered public procurement every year. The four billion euros mentioned are approximately a conservative estimate made exclusively in the EU's experience, where about 15% of the value of GDP goes to this type of procurement. It is possible that we have a real amount spent and higher, as out of about 12,000 are those who are contracting public procurement in Serbia, only one-sixth of them, or about 2,000 are reporting. Those who filed the reports spent just over two and a half billion euros last year. The estimates made for EU countries show that the surplus of corruption spending accounts for about 20% of the total value of public procurement. Similarly for Serbia, savings could be up to 800m euros annually. In doing so, indirect damage resulting from, for example, poorly performed work on paved roads, which must be repeated, inadequate equipment in a health institution, which cannot be used, so the checks cannot be carried out or new equipment must be obtained and so on, is often significantly higher than the amount paid for the commission. That is why in recent months, since this global crisis has become a reality, more or less, many countries have decided to pay particular attention to this effective application of the mechanisms -- budget spending control. In times of crisis, public procurement is particularly important. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 82(4). The bill, which otherwise reads: ''After the conclusion of the contract, the contracting authority may only allow the price to be changed for objective reasons that must be set out in the competition documentation, i.e. provided for specific regulations. ''I have in my amendment, wanting to contribute to a more quality legal solution, stated that after the word 'price' should add the words 'up to 20% of the agreed price'. For citizens who follow this transfer, and in order to be simpler, this amendment should essentially apply to those already famous contract annexes, such as at least citizens of the capital witnesses, related to the famous reconstruction of the South Boulevard, and first established one price, and then the famous annex of the contract and significantly higher labour prices. The government did not accept this amendment because, they say, the prices of certain goods and services which are subject to public procurement are determined by specific regulations, and that provision allows the concluded contracts for the public procurement of these goods, i.e. services, to remain when price changes occur. Otherwise, there would be problems in the realisation of the contract, since it would be unrealistic to expect that bidders will continue to deliver goods, i.e. to perform services at unchanged contract prices, in a situation where the price of these goods or services has been changed by a special regulation. It is also said that it would lead the client to the situation that the contract must be terminated first, and to carry out a new procurement procedure, in order to conclude a contract with the bidder whose prices in the offer do not differ significantly from the offered, amended contract price. However, on the regularity of public procurement in Serbia, the biggest problem is that only two institutions are still looking after -- the Public Procurement Administration and the Commission for the Protection of Rights. I believe that by accepting this amendment, in some ways, it would be prevented by the latent possibility of misappropriating certain provisions of the law, first and foremost bearing in mind this fact that other than these two institutions, there are no others who have jurisdiction in this matter. The Public Procurement Administration is acting preventively, checking that the conditions for the guessing procedure are met in concrete cases and that over 10,000 requests for guessing arrive, most of which are rejected. For example, in 2007, the Commission for the Protection of Vendors made a total of 536 decisions last year, and in half of the cases it adopted complaints from the contracting authorities. The procedures that were annulled were also the ones that were carried out by the ministries, although the Commission is, according to its formal position, part of the executive authority. What is to be pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, is that earlier most attempts at law enforcement were in direct guessing procedures, and now irregularities and abuses have moved to the stages of preparation for public procurement and enforcement of non-controllable contracts. The most common forms of abuse recorded during the previous years are the planning of purchases that are by quantities and characteristics incompatible with the client's plan of activity, then the reduction of time limits for submission of tenders in relation to the legislation prescribed, favouring an advance notified bidder. It was, for example, an example, that when a customer describes technical characteristics, for example, from a specific manufacturer or a specific type, he exclusively asks for these characteristics. It is also common to abuse 'quality' as a criterion assessed on the basis of the subjective attitude of the commission members. Then, abuse of the criteria of experience so far through which the client can favor those bidders he has been doing business with for a long time and thus practically prevents others who would prefer to be chosen. It is often also the annexation of the contract, which is specifically covered by this amendment, which changes the agreed price, as a rule, and reduces the quantities, while delivery deadlines are extended. It is therefore necessary that, in addition to checking the procurement process itself, there is a verification of the purpose of public procurement. A good example is a question that has recently been heard in public, and for the purchase of a number of cars by a public company receiving significant subsidies from the state, is it justified to buy these cars and in that amount, or was it more appropriate to invest, for example, in improving the services it provides to citizens, especially in segments concerning their safety? In contrast, it is necessary to check the way contracts are implemented, in the sense that what is agreed is indeed and delivered. What may also be most important is that all cases of violations of the law are prosecuted and sanctioned by judicial authorities. Several cases have been known to draw great public attention over the past few years and cause public outrage. However, they have not been processed to this day. This in some ways sends a message to those who are thinking today about not respecting the rules and opinions and decisions of other regulatory bodies. For example, in 2006 only 28 infringements were imposed on responsible persons, 25 of which were up to 10,000 dinars. Of the 25 responsible, 13 were fined up to 5,000 dinars. A total of 27 legal entities were punished for violating the two laws in 2006, with a fine of up to 10,000 dinars for 17 of them. In the same year, the district attorney discussed six cases of potential public procurement abuses, while no case was brought before the district court. We mentioned today in the afternoon debate and the problem, practically infunctioning of the State Audit Authority, which could only exercise such control. Examples, good and positive, are in our immediate environment. For example, in Slovenia special attention is paid to the supervision of public finances. The National Assembly has a special commission to monitor public finances, which has been the practical and most active bodies of the parliament there over the past four years. It held 74th session, whose discussions on financial issues lasted 282 hours. The Commission's discussions were the reports of the State Auditing Institution on the final accounts of the Government and other budgetary users. Recommendations to remove irregularities were adopted as a rule and the state authorities were ordered to remove them. Otherwise, in the European Commission's report, what is very important to you and important about Serbia's progress in the European integration process, one of the many problems in which the state government in Serbia has been showing backwards inadequate results is corruption, above all, in this public sector. In the past few years, however, a number of laws have been passed that establish independent regulatory control bodies. The practice, however, has shown something quite different, which is that, although at least declared, in various ways has been effectively difficult and obstructed by the work of these institutions, primarily by parts of the executive government. Also, from the adoption of laws on the establishment of these institutions to the beginning of their work, it takes an inaccessible amount of time for the failure to provide working rooms and means for the recruitment of the necessary professional staff. Of course, the most dramatic example is the position of the State Auditing Institution, which we have already discussed during today. What's also a problem is that the current budget inspection is a small number and about nine inspectors come to 9,000 budget users, and you will admit, it is insufficiently independent. Therefore, training for the efficient work of independent and independent state audit institutions is also an urgent state job. I am not going to talk about other irregularities in public enterprises, such as the salaries of their directors, presidents and board members, etc., and very difficult opportunities to come up with certain solutions. What I would also like to point out to you is that Commissioner Verica Radeta mentioned yesterday, and about one of the strongest and most drastic violations of the provisions of the still existing Law on Public Procurement, and this is about the University and that famous decision – without tender, without respect for the legal provisions, about assigning Croatia's Vartex to wear, so to speak, to the uniforms of all athletes. What is the consequence of such an irresponsible decision by the then, however, director of the University? As a result, Belgrade practically avoided the possibility of even being host to the university without even having to host the university because, I remind you, the decision was made four years ago, that in December 2006, it was decided to hold competitions in Belgrade in record 21 events with 13 000 participants, which is more than at the Olympic Games. However, then in 2007, there was Sinisa Jasnic, director of the 2009 University Company, who then said, however, that the reconstruction of the facilities is too late, that the competition is too expensive, so that in September they can reach the peak of this chronology, so to speak, disorganization, and this is the famous Varteks affair, when Croatian textiles without tender got jobs to train our competitors. Not as far as the Croatian company is concerned, I believe that as a state, we had to make sure that one such important job, not only was there a tender, but one such important business, which was estimated to be worth about 5m euros, was certainly meant to get one of the 20 companies at least, as many as were capable of such a thing in Serbia, we also know that domestic textiles cannot stand on their feet, so it is quite understandable that their bitterness is related to this Vartex affair. However, it is so when Serbia is ruled by both irresponsible and party-stricken oligarchies, who represent the interests of the tycoon alone, market fundamentalists have disfigured institutions and created a new feudal society, in which the rich become richer overnight, while most citizens have become increasingly poor. There's a lot of questions that there's no answer. What I would like for the very end to point out is that taught by this practice so far and experience is clear that the proposal on public procurement will also come to the same fate as almost all previous legal solutions found in the assembly procedure and regardless of the fact that government's laws, especially in this and so sensitive area, are therefore less or more bad in the anti-corruption area. The main problem is that they are not applied in practice and not only not applied in practice, but clearly abused by individuals in power above all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10274	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 88. The law on public procurement is replaced by a new amount of 25,000,000 dinars. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted this amendment, although this is one of the most important and perhaps essential members of this law, and thus the amendment to this article of the law is one of the most important amendments. This article of the 88th Law gives full meaning and sheds one light on the subject of public procurement, as many as are spoken by Article 85. Let me remind you, this is all about public procurement from the energy sector, from the mining sector, from the water industry, from regional communications, from the area of traffic, etc. Just mention these branches of the economy, the vital branches I was talking about, and that it can be concluded that there are possibilities for huge machinations and huge manipulations when it comes to public procurement in these industries. Citizens of Serbia, here's a typical example of how tycoons are made. In these areas, you give unlimited state goods to manage some people, and then through a system of public procurement, they get rich and put money into their pockets. It is simple and known that the richest people in this country, as well as the richest people in some neighbouring countries, their wealth and their empires, have just begun this way, working with these economic branches, means electricity, mining, energy and so on, not to mention names, Serbia's public knows well what kind of people it is. As regards this amendment, the previous legislative solution to the Public Procurement Act predicted that the previous review must be published at least once a year, in respect of public procurement of which the value of 50 million dinars is planned. We have seen, and from experience, we know that the practice has shown that it is major corruption, and now instead of reducing that amount from 50 million, as I predicted with my amendment, from 50 to 25 million, here the government is proposing something contrary, so that amount increases from 50 to 100 million and basically gives a double chance, i.e. increasing the possibility of manipulation. Of course, manipulations and abuses are also possible when it comes to high value purchases and low value acquisitions. Here, yesterday we had an opportunity to hear from one of the SRS' colleagues that when the health facilities were created in Nis and Leskovec, there was a drastic price difference, where in one case the price per square metre was 95 dinars, and in another 140 dinars. When compared these two amounts, it is seen that in one case the price is higher by a full 50%. If citizens and ordinary people don't understand other things, we all look at walls and our rooms every day, our houses, etc., there really can't be that much deviation from the price. I say, manipulations can be not only through public procurement but, practically, and privatisations of companies can be treated under certain conditions as public procurement. That's where very big abuses are done. As I come from Nis, a successful Nis Express company has recently been sold at a cost of 2,750,000 euros, which is about the amount when the price is converted into euro. Nis Express is the largest passenger transport carrier in both Serbia and the former Yugoslavia and Europe. I believe there are no MPs in this hall who have not been on the Nis Express bus for at least once in his life, and I believe there is no citizen of Serbia who has also ever driven on a bus called Nis Express. We see, the Nis Express has been sold at a very miserable price, because what we're doing doesn't make any sense. In the afternoon debate, counterpart Radovanovic mentioned that only tires on those buses are worth more than this. Just enough to say that the plot where the Nis Express site is located is an extremely good location, at the very beginning of Bulevar Nemnjiæ, an attractive location in Nis, that Nis Express has a bus factory, that it has a tourist agency, that it has a car school and a lot of things. I'm just saying, this is the best example of how tycoons are made. There's something else about this amendment. In light of the reasons why this law is passed by emergency procedure, you state your standard explanation - speeding up the EU accession process. It says the law is to be passed by November, and now we're halfway through December, you didn't do it. Please, don't deceive and cheat on your European friends anymore that we'll do something within the deadline, because in this way you're putting a bad reputation on not only this government, but the whole state and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10276	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 92. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP of the SRS Aleksandar Martinovic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 92(1). With this amendment, a fellow member of the SRS parliamentary group seeks to replace the word "Government can" with the words "Government of the Sea", and the word "temporary" is deleted. What's this about? In Article 92(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: The bill says, "The government may, in the opinion of the ministry responsible for economic relations with abroad, suspend the procurement process temporarily." The amendment stipulates that the government, in that case, cannot intervene, but that it must intervene and that the word "temporary" is deleted. The same article of the bill cites cases under which, as stated in the bill, the Government can intervene, i.e. to suspend the public procurement procedure: when bidders established in a country with which the Republic of Serbia does not have a contract on equal treatment of domestic or foreign providers and in two other cases where the persons of the state with which Serbia has concluded a contract are connected, but there are no direct and effective links between the Republic of Serbia and that state of which it is concerned. It's problematic what it means -- the character of a direct and effective relationship. It was left in this case that the Government assessed itself, in every concrete procedure and in any particular case public procurement, whether there are direct and effective links. Furthermore, there is a third case - when bidders submitted an offer, and the subject comes from a country with which the Republic of Serbia does not have a contract on equal treatment of domestic and foreign bidders. Serbia does not need in this trade and economic exchange to suffer a country's monopoly, while serving as a raw material base for those who work and come to final products and re-place it on Serbia's market. You know that, Malten, Vojvodina has largely become the property of individual companies from Croatia. It mentions "Agrokor" Ivica Todorovic and others who bought large plots, i.e. a large part of the land in the fertile Vojvodina. There is another situation that needs power, primarily the government and the competent ministry, to pay attention. This is subject to verification, of course, and the information is that a Croatian firm, the name of this company, I know, but I will not mention it on purpose, has placed large amounts of money, secret channels, over a Nis company that is privatised in the meantime, and it is a commercial company, for the purchase of markets in southern Serbia. So this is about crime, corruption, which should be prevented. I hope, even though I understand you, government representatives in the O.R., and even government members and other people in the government who are following this area and the whole situation, a lot is said for this speaker, much is true, much is unverified, but much is what we, the MPs, say by thinking or we are convinced that it is true, and it is not entirely accurate information. You cannot follow all of this and check, and since it is the future for the purchase of relevant products, the goods of general consumption, which is being placed from some countries, whether or not in the public procurement system, whether it is a free market, which we can say that they are still hostile to us and that there should be economic and trade co-operation - should be, but with certain control of the executive authority, or the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry. I told you there was a huge amount of money in the pockets of individuals and certain private companies. What are these cases where the Government can, under the bill, not have to suspend the procurement process? The government will certainly, on a proposal, say the competent ministry of economic relations with abroad, do so. Whether it will be exclusively of the benefit of the client, or the job supplier, or service, I assume that he will appreciate that it is of general interest to Serbia. Of course there is to a large extent logic and justification for such a solution in Article 92. It's a bill of law. Given our opportunities, our mentality in Serbia and the practice in the conduct of individual cases, it is safer, cleaner and clearer for all of us, and especially for those of you who participate in the implementation of these laws and work in the executive power, to suspend the procedure by having the Government have to, and not be able to. There will come the influence of certain powerful men, both in the government and outside the government, not to mention the influence of the powerful, these tycoons. The abuses are, I'm sure that Madam Minister you know, there you are in the public sector, in public life, that the power and influence of the tycoon is huge for Serbia. Some tycoons act as owners of this Serbia, market owners and capital, and finance, and the political will owners of some people, and even those of the Assembly, even those of our fugitives, former radicals. The tycoons are just making people out of power. It's an honor to those capable people who, in the service system, make profits in the production system. That's the profit they're building up. That's just fine. Good for them. They should be welcomed and supported. But tycoons that come up with huge amounts of money do it in an illegal, illegal way. Who gives them that? It's the people of the system of government. These tycoons that already exist in Serbia, from Miroslav Miskovic, Beka, etc., that I do not specify their names, create and create some new tycoons, whether their competition or competition with future tycoons, and they were unfortunately once in the SRS, I am talking about two people from the top of the former SRS who led here in the country of the SRS, of course, with the president of the SRS who is in The Hague. The tycoons have made these new tycoons out of politics. The system, the tycoons and politicians who are going to harm Serbia, to the detriment of many people, to the harm of those who are barely putting an end to the end, who are out of work, and even if they are busy, they do not have enough material resources to exist, the state and the Serbian government should also take care of the implementation of this law on public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10278	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic has submitted an amendment to Article 92. Proposal for a law on public procurement. What counterpart Milovan Radovanovic said earlier in favour of the explanation of this amendment actually only confirms the SRS' position, and this is certainly the general view, that the main culprit for corruption in Serbia is public procurement, and that, on the other hand, corruption is the root cause of social misery and economic crisis in Serbia. All this, of course, goes under the auspices of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You say in your bill, Mrs Dragutinovic, and it is said that the public procurement procedure is suspended, you say that the government must, in the light of the attached opinion of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad, temporarily suspend the public procurement process, and then tell which bidders, who are based in a country with which the Republic of Serbia does not have a contract on equal treatment of domestic and foreign providers. We talked about it yesterday, last night when we talked about this bill, and counterpart Martinovic said in the light of his amendment that he suggested that he would say that the government must, in the light of the attached opinion of the ministry responsible for economic relations with abroad, not temporarily, but to suspend the public procurement process with all these bidders provided for in Article 92. It's a bill of law. It is nice to explain the amendments that it is necessary for foreign companies and individuals in our country to be treated in the same way that our companies and natural persons are treated in the countries from which the bidder comes. You must admit that there is nothing fairer and more just and in some normal circumstances, let alone when it comes to the circumstances in which the state of Serbia is located with the countries surrounding us. Unfortunately, we have no friends in these countries, in the governments of these countries. They act that way. Our doors in the economy are wide open to companies from Croatia, companies from Slovenia, providers from Croatia and Slovenia, and Serbian bidders cannot even peek there. It must first be made clear and loud and open to say. We have no reason to court anyone. We have no reason, especially not to the harm of our citizens and our own country, to conclude harmful contracts, to be told somewhere that we are good neighbors. On more than one occasion, counterpart Petar Jojic sought information from various ministries on the participation of Croatian and Slovenian companies in privatisation in Serbia, so the other day he received one five kilos of paper in response form, you will hear for sure these days, Mrs Dragutinovic, what is there and how right we are. This amendment, like the previous amendment, as well as Mr Prelic's amendment that will come after this, must be observed at the same time and only makes sense, because we have so conceived our amendments, above all to maintain legal certainty in Serbia, in order to preserve our legal system. And not that, as Mr. Chiplic, who was here for a time for you this morning, would say that there are some winds from the west that say that legal standards should be as flexible as possible. It's beyond common sense and out of mind and in the most orderly states and where honest people are in power, the flexible norm has no legal certainty. The legal standard must be clear, precise, concise. It's in Serbia's legal system. Surely no one will resent you from those who command you to pass such laws or laws if you respect them. In that sense, our amendments are, and I see that I still have a little time left, and I need to introduce you, and above all, to the public, with several facts published today in one daily newspaper. I've already talked about what the SRS newspaper "The Great Serbia" published, there's a lot of similar data. Predrag Jovanovic, director of the Public Procurement Agency, spoke of the "Kurir" on public procurement, and among other things, it says that the value of the purchase at the MUP is at an annual level, I am now talking about this crime in the MUP, which is current these days, at an annual level exceeding 35m euros, and a quarter of that money, i.e. slightly more than eightm euros, goes to the firms for which tenders are being placed. This is claimed by some sources from the MUP, and what amount of goods and money is concerned, can illustrate the example that the MUP works for about 40,000 people, listen to this, which buys six pairs of socks annually. That means 240,000 pairs of socks. The same number of people come annually for two shirts, ties, pants, etc. Imagine what money is involved and it is said that through this investigation the police have discovered not only malfeasances in the MUP, but also in other companies, but also in the military, where most of the same companies do the same things. Mrs. Comic, I want to ask you a question based on the Rules of Procedure of the Minister, should I go to a place or continue? (President: Continue. ) Thank you very much. I thought I'd be there in these six minutes, but something's going on fast. So, what does this source say, "Kurira"? In previous ministers, it is thought of the police minister, the harming of the tender was routine, which shows the case of arrested Bozidar Stojiljkovic, the owner of the company "Bim Teks" and "Mari Bo", who was a member of former police minister Dusan Mihajlovic. So, they're very deeply rooted of what's happening right now at the top, and yet nobody's going to brag about all these public procurement malfeasances, they're going to go to jail for some people who've been involved in it, but who are much less guilty and far less responsible than those who are their employers. He further says Predrag Jovanovic, therefore, director of the Public Procurement Administration - two billion euros in the reported public procurement accounts for 8% in Serbia's gross domestic product, while in all transition countries public procurement accounts for about 16%. Therefore, another 8% is missing, which means that two billion euros remain undeclared. Same pain again. The problem is that many companies do not deliver the report, especially public utility companies. We don't know exactly how many tenders were set up, but it does mean that some are, but it can kind of illustrate the fact that last year there were 700 complaints about the regularity of the tender and half of those tenders were annulled, which in general, which is partly. So much for honesty when it comes to public procurement. And the question for you, Madam Minister, I asked you yesterday, and yesterday I told you that I would not call you today, so I asked you, and you are not responding again, you seem to have made peace with Junior, I think you are yellow and younger, Mladjan Dinkic, which you are looking at me strangely. Yesterday you were in a fight when you left, then here Mrs. Kalanovic informed us, us and the public, that there was a big fight in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that Lucky was very nervous, that he was returning some blows to Bojan Krishta or whatever it was. My question and our question is, what about the financial inspection at the airport? What did Bojan Kristo really do? Is there malfeasance there, isn't there? Is there going to be a "eat a cat" to keep the younger one in government or are we going to face the truth, even if some of us are shopping without a tender?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10280	Anyone else want a word? If not, the 93rd Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 93. Public procurement laws. Ms. Minister at Mrs. Vjerica Radete's suggestion to answer, there is obviously nothing to say to the MPs or citizens of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 93. The law on public procurement because it is an online trail of amendments submitted to Article 92, submitted by my colleague, Mr Martinovic Aleksandar. If an amendment is adopted to Article 92, which is more than logical, Article 93 point 1 of Article 1 does not make sense because it refers to Article 92, which has a clearer position and meaning by adopting an amendment from counterpart Martinovic. By replacing the word "Government can" with the words "Government must suspend public procurement and services" ceases the need for point 1) and Article 93(1). Article 92 and Article 93 of this law stemmed from the bad habit of legislators, as it always leaves the possibility of manipulation with the words "can" instead of the word "must", and any irregularities in tender or public procurement are immediately suspended. Such a serious law, which should be applied with the aim of preventing bribery and corruption, has in its members undefined attitudes and leaves the possibility that tender and government contractors should always justify themselves in words - so it writes to you well, which does not mean it has to. This creates conditions for malfeasance and leaves the possibility of holes in the law so that similar to those arrested these days can bring enormous personal benefits to the expense of the state and its population. The law on public procurement proposed for adoption aims to re-settle obligations towards harmonisation of the law for the sake of Eurointegration. That's fine, but if you don't adopt amendments that fix this very bad proposal as much as possible, how are you going to go before the Council of Europe and the various European Commissions that will evaluate every such bad law and that you will be able and I trust them to cancel their hospitality in the European Community. The Law on Public Procurement in the Section of Article 93 speaks and refers to the procurement of goods, works and services, water supply, energy, telecommunications and transport. These are also areas where the biggest public procurement has been carried out, and so far there have been the most problems with tenders and procurement. To remind only the case of the supply of electricity by Hamovic and Janjusevic. The survey committee was formed to investigate all the malfeasances about it, but normally nothing was done because they were DS personnel. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is mentioned that an emergency procedure requires the law to be passed for anti-corruption control by an authorised authority. Another hypocrisy of the government and the congregation's majority. Well, aren't we witnessing daily statements by Verice Barac that she has no co-operation with the government and that her work and the work of the authorities is more than desensitized and underestimated? The law on public procurement basically has the need and importance to protect the spending of public funds and introduce financial discipline in state bodies and businesses, as well as other legal entities falling under this law. However, the law on public procurement is most often misused and strictly applied to those bodies and businesses that are not covered by government. It is not a rare case that the law on public procurement slows down or disables fast and necessary work, mostly due to time terms which are long for the whole process to be completed around works or procurement, and then complaints and the slowness of the relevant ministries, especially when performing works and procurement in municipalities where parties and parties from the ruling majority rule. The overall issue in the Assembly, the Government and all relevant law enforcement and law enforcement bodies is such that the laws and acts are still interpreted in several ways, depending on whom they apply. You accuse the opposition of obstruction, and every law is subject to a series of amendments that, in every sense, correct the bill's proposals, but you do not adopt amendments to the principle and a negative attitude towards the opposition at the level of the child of democracy, especially towards the SRS. I am convinced that if the European Commission had the opportunity to get your bill and ours with amendments, that each of our proposals would be adopted, not knowing in advance whose proposal is the law. As an opposition, we have the right not to vote in favour of the law even though you adopt all our amendments because it is normal, as is normal for us to fix all your laws, not because of you, but because of the citizens we represent, and also because of those who have cheated and gave you their vote. It is our political goal to prove that you do not know how to rule, and that we are also passing the quality of the law with our amendments as far as Serbian citizens are concerned above all. Madam Minister, when it comes to public procurement, I think it's directly related to the AP Vojvodina, and above all I mean the Capital Investment Fund. Namely, the funds allocated by the Capital Investment Fund – I assume you also know that the chairman of the Management Board of the Capital Investments Fund Bojan Pajtic, President of the Executive Council, is probably not a conflict of interest – the Fund allocated the funds of 2,677,820,386,055 pairs in 3.11.2008. The municipalities that were ready with the projects based on them were granted funds, including municipalities where the Democrats do not rule, although they were minimal funds, funds that they had to approve, because they would have no justification at all. But much more resources go to municipalities where the Democrats are in power. What do I want to tell you? When it comes to public procurement, the Executive Major of Vojvodina has a delegation that goes from school to school, from institution to institution, where he asks what needs to be done. Normally, theirs is to say what needs to be done, and everything else is the problem of their Executive Council. So they pick the contractors and everything. In this tranche right now, which is approved, I have to say that it belonged most to the Saturday region, so to speak, means the environments where national minorities are, or the Hungarian coalition. It's probably a pre-election promise and those are arguments they have to blackmail, not just the government, but the Executive Greater Vojvodina. But the projects that the Odjacs have, with the already selected contractor, will not be achieved this year. They say there's no money. Where was that money spent, or was it all done a lot earlier in the campaign, so now they have to cover those costs? I ask you, do you have control and do you have the right to control it that way and how money from the Capital Investment Fund is spent? From the New Serbia parliamentary group, you heard that the budget rebalancing was defined funds for people with disabilities of 12 million dinars and that nothing was achieved. I'll tell you, the Ojac municipality pre-competitive last year based on a tender. The Ministry of Sports and Youth announced a competition for the opening of sports courts and playgrounds, we applied and we were granted 6.5 million dinars. We went straight to work, went to primary and secondary schools, and made six projects. We've been granted 6.5 million dinars, and to this day we haven't received a single dime. I've been in power for four years, and, ma'am, this has been verified. I'm not telling you. So we were granted six million and 500 thousand dollars for open sports fields and children's playgrounds in 2006. Until today, funds have not been received, with various explanations of the Ministry of Sports and Youth, which none were adequate, all the projects existed, the contractor was elected, however, we were given the reason that they had to choose the contractors. The important thing is that the funds were not received. Mr Krasic told you in a funny tone yesterday about this law on public procurement that it is a drp-system, which extends to local self-government and to local communities, and now I will give you an example of where the local community is concerned. It is the local community of Ratkovo, which started the sewer, another ecological in Serbia. The initial investment was in 2005 126 million dinars, and the connections themselves were then, at the time, according to the project documentation about 60 million dinars. We called the tender because we separated the connections from the work itself. That's where three or four firms came in. Probably, Madam Minister, those three firms agreed on the competition itself. You won't believe it, the lowest bid of the three companies was 120 million and the largest of 145 million. This firm, which was probably not in agreement with them, was offering 68 million dinars. They're probably accidentally into this game, but it's amazing that there's such a difference in price, maltene double. Normally, we chose the cheapest bidder, but this bidder, who had such a high offer, filed a complaint. Normally, the appeal was not accepted, it was rejected. I'm telling you all this because it's really amazing how much you're trying to hold on to, but absolutely everything, under control. I'd like to go back to this amendment. I know someone's gonna say it's not all about what I'm saying about the amendment I've submitted, but, gentlemen, it is. Here's a concrete example, which we can extract from Articles 92 and 93 of this bill. Article 92 says that public procurement can be suspended if the bidder appears from a country that does not have a co-operation agreement with us for services and purchases. That's fine, if the words "can" be replaced for "must" and the word "temporary." I'm asking you, do we even have such contracts with foreign countries? We probably do, but they're fictitious, because I'm convinced that we have a correct relationship, that our businesses would flood these countries, because our prices are at the lowest level, and the quality of work and expertise at the highest level. If such contracts were made in the right sense, Serbia would not have any unemployed workers in half a year, moreover importing labour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10282	Anyone else want a word? If not, the amendment was submitted to Article 98 by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milorad Krstin has tabled an amendment proposing that the title of section 6, the title above Articles 99 and 99 be deleted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at last another European law has arrived in front of this high house. I'm glad I'm taking part in the amendment in front of the SRS parliamentary group. Namely, I have submitted an amendment to Section 6 to delete the title above Article 99 and Article 99 itself. The position of the SRS is known, which is against the establishment of new administrations, agencies, institutions and various other organisations that are increasing the state administration and bureaucratic apparatus, which can lead to various abuses and machinations. I then took the regulated matter according to the applicable Public Procurement Act, Article 18, so I took a proposal for a law on public procurement, Art. 99th and 100th, and this is 18th and 19th. According to the applicable Public Procurement Act, Article 18 says: "The Public Procurement Administration is educated, as a special organisation for the performance of professional activities in the field of public procurement, in order to provide conditions for the economic, efficient and transparent use of public procurement funds and to promote the competitiveness and equality of bidders in the procurement process (hereinafter: Administration). The work and organisation of the administration are subject to regulations in the state administration." This, too, means the sixth section of the proposal for a law on public procurement and form of organisation. Article 99, you should follow, you will see that this is identical - The Public Procurement Administration is a special organisation that has carried out professional activities in the field of public procurement, providing conditions for the economic, efficient and transparent use of public and financial resources for public procurement and promoting the competitiveness and equality of bidders in public procurement procedures. Rules on State Administration apply to the work and implementation of the Public Procurement Administration. Then, in the applicable Public Procurement Act, Article 19, where the same job is written above, article 100 where they write jobs, it is evident that they are identical, but the co-worker, so that I don't now talk about article 100 and take its subject, so I'll move on to that discussion that's very important, and that means, as so far, the Public Procurement Administration is a special organization that does professional work in the field of public procurement, and that seems to you to be in charge of professionally bartering public procurement. Should I list my own time or current trains and railways, spending money on roads in Serbia and another million procurements from the budget, when I speak to cities, I mean municipalities, public enterprises and institutions where citizens' money flows into the pocket of responsible members of the ruling coalition or yellow company and G17. You say the Public Procurement Administration will organise the efficient and transparent use of public financial means of public procurement. It'll be the same as before, anything but efficient and transparent. Efficient only when it comes to hiring someone from the ruling coalition and stealing state money by covering up all the troubles in public procurement. Finally, as so far, it is said that the Public Procurement Administration, by fostering the competitiveness and equality of bidders in public procurement procedures, this has been especially so far functioning, and thus also by this law: competitiveness is measured by the amount of corruption. If anyone gives more, it's his. No wonder they think we're the most corrupt country in Europe, because you're just figuring out how to frame legal manipulation of state property and money. It is particularly good that section seven of this law organises the protection of bidders and public interest and extends the number of officials who will be named by merit and whose salaries will fall on the burden of citizens, i.e. the budget, whose labour effects, as ever, will be zero, the cloudy waters around public procurement will be even more cloudy, and the information about spending money will be even more inaccessible. That is why I feel that this amendment should be adopted, that is, to withdraw the entire legislation from the procedure and seriously consider where this is going. The SRS has a solution. We're almost there to expand that and document something. Just laugh, you won't be long. The Public Procurement Administration has managed to obtain only 2,100 public procurement reports during 2007 and spend more than 108m dinars from the budget in the period 2003-2007, rather than the detour of the work of this useless budget parasite being entrusted to one of the sectors, i.e. the department of the finance ministry. For this very reason, the Law on Public Procurement has lost meaning today, and it is useful to remind that it has been brought forward with the objectives of saving and rational use of budget funds, strengthening anti-corruption mechanisms, strengthening competition and strengthening the private sector. Unfortunately, today this regulation has become an instrument of enormously fast and easy to enrich the regime. To support that a little bit, I will present the facts, and today many Serbian citizens were able to see for themselves again in the DS newspaper, the arrest again, and you heard it yesterday from Vjerica Radeta and colleagues Todorovic, and we see here again that this corruption has moved from Zrenjanin to Novi Sad, and here is the director of the Vojvodina, Branislav Radanovic, and the director of the grain hall of sports in the construction of Zoran Stojačić, the husband of Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, the senior official of DS. And all because Mr. Branislav Radovanovic, director of the Vojvodina, made it possible for Goran Knezevic and his husband, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, to build that marina, every day I walk by the road, so we have long wondered how the marina would be huge, how the yachts, boats, barbecues and barbecuers would be... Just watch Mrs. Kolundji, all this is true, if necessary, I'll take you to see what that marina looks like, because to make that marina, there's 40,520 cc's of mud. Unfortunately, Branislav Radovanovic forgot that these services should be charged, though some laws do not allow third parties to betray these badgers and it is his big mistake. That mistake costs him 11 million dinars. It is another drop in the sea of corruption and crime over these public procurements, so let me support this article, which mentions David Dimkic, head of finance SO Zrenjanin, Bratislav Tomic, the famous Baćko, who is the province's MP. It says, the president of the temporary organ. There wasn't a temporary organ there, he was the main organ there. Nikola Halas was the most major organ there, has a smaller organ, so a larger organ, so the left organ, then the right organ, you have with them what you want. That is why it says -- reported by overrunning their official powers have damaged more than 132 million dinars, by carrying out public procurement for the purchase of different equipment for which no budget position has been provided, and thus the organized group has obtained property benefit of over 56m dinars, around 700,000 euros. It's just part of the yellow company. Do you want to talk about white coats in Belgrade? And that's where you move a little bit. I don't have much time yet, but I'll be able to give you something that's very interesting. I come from the Municipality of Zrenjanin, I have four other municipalities in the Central Banat County, where I am the chairman of the Central Banat County Committee of the SRS and I will make sure that they are all brought out here, not today, I will not succeed. But it says - funds for marketing and promotion of existing resources and investment opportunities in the Zrenjanin municipality to attract foreign investors; it says - from 1.01 to 10.11.2008, 16.682.042. But here's some "Multicompani", I know, 2,583,888, but "CP Cosmopolitan" 13,569,410 dinars. I will not even list these small ones, but this is important, the citizens of Serbia -- the distribution programme for marketing, promotion of existing resources and investment in the Zrenjanin municipality in order to attract foreign investors, this was done on 25.01.2008. So it is said -- based on the decision on the Zrenjanin municipality's budget, to attract foreign investors, funds of 10 million dinars are allocated as follows -- to sound the city of Zrenjanin 2.5 million and attract foreign investors, this second part is 7.5 million. But the next program on the change of programme, which was made on April 17, three months later, says -- instead of 10 million dinars, we put a amount of 16 million dinars. Instead of the 7.5, we now put 13.5 million dinars. Again, the next program to change the programme of July 22nd, all so beautifully for three months, says -- now we're changing those 16 million dinars and instead we're putting 21 million dinars. Instead of those 13.5 million dinars, we're putting in an amount of 18.5 million dinars. You see, Serbian citizens, how the government in the town of Zrenjanin spent enormous money by simply voting and not taking care that someone else should live next to them. This is for 2007 for the Municipality of Zrenjanin, services under contract are 26 million. Then we have this team of 5,599,700 dinars. We have compensation for members of the Assembly committees not full of four million, members of the strategic development council 2.5 million. And the announcement of an information ad tender of three million. It's in 2007. Here in 2008, from 1.1. to 31.10.2008, the same thing, with 26 million 884 thousand 934 dinars. Other professional services 5,888,430 dinars. The team reduced to 4.258, though, here for only ten months, and 4,100,000 announcements of tenders and ads, and 3,600,000 fees to members of the assembly commissions. A gift of 3,045,000. I'd like someone to explain to me who they are, but based on free access to information of public importance, I'm going to come to what gifts were bought with three million dinars. Believe me, when I came to this data, I apologize to the citizens of the city and the municipality of Zrenjanin, but they wanted to have yellow power, a yellow company. Here, you got 'em. But if the people judge in the next election, they should no longer appear on the political scene of Serbia, not even to come in yet to make marketing and open up for two or three times some roads, hospitals, maternity sites, one side entrance, and the other side entrance. That's how you did it, January comes first from here, and then the May elections come in from the second entrance and you open it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10284	National MP Zoran Bortic has writtenly withdrawn the amendment that preceded this amendment and submitted it to Article 98. It's a bill of law. I'm only reading this information for a stenogram. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10285	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I apologize for not understanding. In my view, it would always have been before Amendment 99, so I expected that amendment to be read, or Mr Bortic withdrew his amendment to Article 98, and then a member of the 99th Mr. Krstin, to whom I am responding. Unlike Mr. Krstin, who spoke in favour of what I'm saying, but the amendment is a little different, I think it's very important that he remain a member of the 99th Bill and Article 100 that goes after him and describes the affairs of the Public Procurement Administration. As far as I am concerned, it is very important to remain in the following jobs: the monitoring of public procurement procedures, the application for the protection of rights in the event of breach of public interest and the notification of the authority responsible for the audit operations of public funds, budgetary inspections and other authorities responsible for the initiation of an infringement procedure on irregularities in the conduct of the procurement procedure and the delivery of public procurement reports which it determines when performing the tasks for which it is responsible. It just seems to me that it's very important to draw attention to these jobs that the draft law provided for by the Public Procurement Authority, because if we abolished Article 99 and Article 100 or changed it, it seems to me that only then would the chaos arise and then this existing level of corruption, which is so high and that Serbia ranks 85th on the ranking list of countries where corruption is a problem, would only then become a real mess and then corruption would be so high that we simply couldn't measure it. When it comes to the fact that every year Serbia spends on public procurements of at least four billion euros, and the biggest purchases that are currently taking place in republican and municipal public enterprises, then we can think of all the problems that would arise if we did not have such clearly indicated jobs and if we did not ask as parliament to control the very above-mentioned business. It seems to me that there's already someone here, I think Mrs. Radeta brought out the data, but I think that because of the importance of that data, she needs to be told more than once, and they only refer to one example. The example is in the MUP, the latest corruption affair in the MUP, where 35m euros are spent annually. Almost a quarter of that money, it's a little over eightm euros, practically burned, practically the money of Serbian citizens is poured into the pockets of private persons and private firms, which practically eat the money they would and would mean for these institutions we're talking about. What is the parameter of these values, which is the level of all this and the level of corruption in those organs, is only one story, actually one information that is important. Let's say, if there's 40,000 employees in the MUP and there's only two sets of suits per year, three pairs of socks, 40,000 girdle, boots, shoes, then you can imagine how much money that money is and who it's finally gone to. It has already been said that these are some of the same companies that are operating around public procurement for both the military and the MUP, and huge public procurement, so it is possible to track where and in whose pockets money is poured out. It's simply unclear to me why the state doesn't exactly go through that money to prevent corruption in that direction. Here's another example that is both important and I think it should be repeated, just because I asked a parliamentary question in that direction, I didn't get an answer, but I insisted I get one. For example, then Minister of the Ministry of Environmental Protection Mr. Dragin spent 10m euros, bypassed public procurement, all obtained by emergency procedure, for the destruction of mosquitoes, ticks and ambrosia. Of course, there was no saying that the jurisdiction of one and the other is within this ministry. So destroying ambrosia is the job of the Ministry of Agriculture. The destruction of mosquitoes and ticks is the work of the Health Protection Authority. So this is exactly what this Public Procurement Administration is supposed to do, to inform the authorities responsible for the audit of public funds and budgetary inspections. When I get an answer from that ministry, I'm going to ask the authorities if they've done everything they should have done. Another likable example, which is just from the same ministry, and concerns one of the major and biggest actions the Ministry of Ecology has ever taken in this country, is the action of a million trees for Serbia. A very good action, very important, they have implications in many areas of our real life, and I don't think there's anything to be resented. I find it very strange that the Ministry of Environmental Protection also took over the work of the Department of Forests of the Ministry of Agriculture. It's simply unclear for me to say one ministry takes over the jobs of another and spends money on that activity, although the ministry shouldn't be in charge of the job. That takeover, which of course is not legal, is actually one very nice and logical way when you want to take something or, not to say that word that you should say every honest word, when you want to put some money aside from that other ministry. An example of a third -- accidentally again the same ministry, the Great Back Channel, the exact same story, is not the jurisdiction of this ministry. The fourth example is the drug story. Fifth - urbanism and construction. I can send it this way in order, there's almost no area we can't say that there's only so much corruption in it and that there's a terrible amount of money in Serbia's citizens' private pockets. Why is corruption so widespread? It is said that there are three very important reasons and that they should be said precisely because they come from parliament and because many are accusing that it is practically blocking work, and that the opposition is doing it. There are many reasons. Some of them are very precise and refer to the government, not applying existing laws. We have the Public Procurement Act. The way he is, he exists, he still doesn't apply. Why isn't it applied? Is there a government service? Are there people who need to do their job? And how they exist. Are there services that people who don't do their jobs or do it in such a way that there is corruption commit to work or punishment for not doing it? There are. Why aren't they doing it? Furthermore, there is a very high unwillingness of state authorities to fight corruption. They, of course, are doing it consciously and the level of corruption has not fallen compared to last year but has increased. For what? The government has eliminated the old anti-corruption authorities. For example, we have a Republic Committee to resolve conflicts of interest. He pointed to sources of corruption, not to go into what Mrs. Barac said, but I'm just saying right now. They pointed to sources of corruption. They don't exist right now. The government has formed the Agency, while the agency must live for at least a year. There is one space, one vacuum at that moment, and right at that vacuum, as you can see, the media places various affairs relating to public procurement. Don't convince me that this great failure was accidentally made, of course, completely conscious. We also have a situation in parliament. So this blockade is definitely created by the parliamentary majority, of those who can do it; 108 MPs cannot block parliament but can those who can't lead it, even though they smile at me like that, that's right. It is very important to say that in this House, apart from the laws we, gentlemen, must control the work of the government. And that is why calling on the parliamentary majority that we do not have the right to control the government's work is wrong, because we are precisely pointing to the sources of corruption and the affairs that are happening here. That's why it's important that you participate with us. And it's not in your best interest that those affairs tend to. Because I don't know if everyone next to you is protecting anyone who's produced this affair. Of course, nothing is done on the plan to fight corruption. That's obvious. I said corruption wasn't reduced, it was increased. For this reason, I think it is also important that this Article 99 of the Public Procurement Act remains, as is Article 100, which must be even more transparent. There's got to be someone somewhere who can control all this, and then when those affairs come up on a light day, and of course it'll all come up, someone has to take responsibility. As far as we're concerned, it's the responsibility of whoever is legally apostrophe to do these jobs, which is the Public Procurement Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10286	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Branimir Djokic submitted an amendment proposing that the title above the 100th and the 100th members be deleted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Marina Toman has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, my colleague Branimir Djokic has tabled an amendment to delete Article 100. Proposal for a law on public procurement, which governs the business of the Public Procurement Administration. So this amendment logically follows the previous amendment of counterpart Milorad Krstin, who has proposed to delete Article 99, which is closer to defining the form of organisation of the Public Procurement Administration. The position of the SRS is well known when it comes to agencies, offices, directorates, i.e. the creation of a parallel state government in a bulky state administration and the spending of budget funds. In Article 100 of this Bill on Public Procurement, we see that the Public Procurement Administration has 14 competences, such as participation in the preparation of public procurement regulations, provision of advisory assistance to contracting authorities and tenderers, monitoring of public procurement procedures, etc. However, we see that these responsibilities are already in certain sectors of the finance ministry, which is given that the Ministry of Finance already regulates the area of public procurement. You can turn them down a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10288	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you're distracting Mrs. Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10289	It should also be borne in mind that the Ministry of Finance in the framework of the regulation-preparation sector already has systematiced jobs in the Public Procurement Group's affairs. Thus, the jobs of employees in the Public Procurement Group, at the Ministry of Finance, now cover - preparing the Law on Public Procurement, making sublegal acts, and giving an opinion on the Public Procurement Act, means jobs that are identical to those of the Public Procurement Authority. It is this information that tells us that citizens of Serbia are currently in two different locations, in two different state bodies funding salaries of civil servants, who are doing exactly the same jobs in the area of public procurement. However, the government does not respect this fact, but rather the Public Procurement Administration, which was founded by the 2002 law, continues to be left behind. Interestingly, in an explanation for the refusal of amendments by counterpart Branimir Djokic, the government states that he is not accepted, since the bill in that article does not lead to an increase in the state administration and bureaucratic apparatus, since the administration is now not established, i.e. it was founded in 2002. There's a change of thesis again. Nobody's saying it's a new organ, but we're drawing attention to you that he's an extra in the country's premise administration, and that he was founded in 2002 doesn't stop you from removing him, if he's already proven ineffective. That the Public Procurement Administration has so far not achieved any results that could justify the need for a further existence and functioning tells us the facts and official data available to the public. There are 12,000 orderrs in Serbia, while the Public Procurement Administration based all its annual statistics for 2007 on only 2,100 reports. That's how many orderers have self-initiatedly delivered it, I repeat, self-initiatively delivered it. So for at least 10,000 orderrs, there is no idea what they are and how they obtained them during the year, how many contracts they made, or how much money they spent from the budget for public procurement. It is also very important here to point out that the trend in the delivery of annual reports to the Public Procurement Administration from year to year declines. Since the contracting authorities know that this is why no one will initiate the determination of their responsibility and that they will not be sanctioned, as the law explicitly requires. The fact is that the Public Procurement Administration does not have any authority in the field of public procurement, nor does it have any personnel, technical or normative capacity that will improve the application of the Public Procurement Act, combat corruption and initiate the determination of responsibility for all those who use tenders as an ideal opportunity for enormous wealth. All this suggests that the Public Procurement Administration, as a special body of state administration in Serbia, is not needed, and especially is not needed for citizens who funded the work of this budget user with a total of 107m euros, amounting to 1.4m euros. In doing so, no one has seen the results of his work and the purpose of existence. There is nothing against the Commission for the Protection of Rights, which will be called the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights from now on, because we believe there is a need for a second-degree body to deal with the protection of the rights of all entities in public procurement. In principle, we have objections to the fact that decisions on the cancellation of the tender by the commission are not being carried out, and what could be seen in the case of the Zrenjanin municipality. Besides, that's what my colleague Christin used to say. As far as this commission is concerned, it has so far functioned within the Public Procurement Administration, and in the future it will function as a special budget user, so we have an objection to the selection of members of this body who will be proposed by the Serbian Government because it does not give us hope that it is an independent and impartial anti-corruption body. Also, the proposed solution to applying rules on state administration at the Public Procurement Administration indicates that the Serbian government will be in charge of the appointment and replacement of the director of the Public Procurement Administration, which will be an element of the regime's policy all the time. Taking into account all the arguments, and as a result of the global economic crisis, the government in Serbia must apply practical austerity measures, it itself is talking about, the SRS believes that accepting this amendment and abolishing the Public Procurement Administration would be one of the effective and multiple useful solutions on the way to rationalising the state administration, for which the regime so far has only been declared advocating itself. I also note that if you decide to accept this amendment of the SRS and to abolish the Public Procurement Administration, bear in mind that the EU will not be angry with you because some EU members, depending on the country to the country, have designated the Ministry of Finance, Justice or economy as the most central public procurement bodies. So even this obstacle no longer exists to accept our amendment and show that the stories of saving are not just empty phrases.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10290	Thank you. National MP Marko Milenkovic has a word. You've got six and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished counterpart Branimir Djokic has submitted an amendment to delete the title above the 100th and the 100th members. In fact, this is about the public procurement department's affairs, and as you've foreseen them here in Article 100, they don't give jurisdiction to the Public Procurement Consistent Control Authority, the way of providing funds, the business of all budget users, ministries, local self-government, public enterprises and the control of confidential public procurement such as. We have for the Ministry of the Interior, but the administration is making a simple administrative bureaucratic institution, without being able to solve problems in the complex process of public procurement. This institution should be a very important, independent, regulatory, control institution, what in the world is called the fourth branch of government, and it had to remain in the law to improve work, but because of the competences you give it and because of the terrible politicisation in this area of promotion, unfortunately, there will be nothing left. The marginalisation of the Public Procurement Administration began a little earlier, while the way members of the Republic Commission were elected and resolved on a proposal from the government marked a serious position under the control of the government of these institutions. We have to admit that the so far Public Procurement Act is-is working, but that's not the solution either. Serbia should have built an institutional system that would fully regulate this area, bringing the possibility of abuse into the least possible frameworks. No one has control of state accounts, state budget and total public spending in Serbia, and that is exactly what we need. How important it is that control shows us a variety of affairs, which, from time to time, surface. For example, Belgrade Airport, where only the reconstruction of Terminal 2 was reportedly worth 18m euros and where numerous irregularities with bloated invoices were detected. In previous days, SRS MPs have uncovered the robbery of Bojan Krishte and thus raised the issue of all the appointments of the managers and directors of the parties in power that rob our people, but it is only a drop in the sea. The public procurement system should mean the functioning of all key institutions, means the main audit institutions, public procurement administrations, the Commission for the Protection of Rights, the Ministry of Interior and budgetary inspections. The bill of law that lies before us today does not contribute to the construction of a comprehensive system in this area. This is your new law, as well as the previous law, which represents only formal and certainly not essential control of public procurement. In the context of this debate, I would also explain the typeology of political corruption according to existing criteria in Serbia, by nature imposing things on its following forms. Trade in parliamentary mandates, a very profitable branch and as such provides exceptional benefits for malfeasance and other dirty jobs, as the crossing of parliamentary representatives from one political party to another points to dirty trade in parliamentary mandates. This phenomenon is not only characteristic of our society. That's what happened in Italy from 1996 to 1999, and in our 90s and today, there's no end to kidnapping innocent souls. The next form of political corruption is the financing of political parties, something specifically focused on the attention of the SRS in the future, in order to expose the government's grip and emerging tycoons and criminals who finance them. Then comes the conflict of interest of senior state officials, a problem that no one in our country wants to solve, then corruption in the judiciary and finally corruption in public procurement. On the very mention of corruption in the government, most people immediately bear in mind bribery to make deals with the state, or public procurement. There are few actions that are so challenging by civil servants and government officials to be corrupt and that create so many opportunities for abuse such as public procurement. At each level of government and in all its organisational forms, supplies of goods and services are carried out, often in quantities that amount and exceed our common expectations. How have certain members of the democratic regime criminalised the public procurement process in the previous eight years? Even before the contracting authorities decided who they would enter into a business contract with, the specification of the requested goods was so that it corresponds exclusively to one bidder or, for example, did not provide information on the terms of the purchase, they violated the confidentiality rule by opening the tenders before the deadline. Then, they made it impossible for potential bidders to participate by setting inappropriate prequalification conditions. (President: Mr. Milenkovic, time has passed. Please bring the end. I'll finish. Finally, public procurement is the biggest corruption field in Serbia, because we had an inefficient law... (President: You want to bring the end, please. This is the last sentence. ... And this one and this one that you're proposing today, and not as inefficient as it makes its implementation and control in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10292	Member of the 105th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milan J. Nikolic, in writing, withdrew the amendment he submitted to Article 105. It's a bill of law. National MP Milan Skrbic submitted to the 107th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, Vice-President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10293	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, not to be immodest, but I must say, it will be a modest assessment, however, that the SRS is the only political party in Serbia that in a very careful and concrete way takes care of the life issues of our citizens and provides concrete solutions. We have been recognizable for 18 years, because there is no problem in Serbia that we want, of course, when it comes to these top state and national interests, the issue of our southern province, the issue of our northern autonomous province and all other possible coups on national and state integrity, but indeed these life issues, and public procurement and debates under this law are life issues from what counterpart Petar Jojic, the local community, said nicely, is this one product of this socialist self-management and the time of Cardeli and Broza, but we have left it as some cell of local self-government, to the highest authorities of the state government. You have seen that, especially in our parliamentary group, people who are engaged in economic professions have been carefully prepared for the debate in certain segments of this law, so just now, in their reference to what the Public Procurement Administration is, why it should delete the title and that member of the law, it has linked to the specific cases that we have so far in practice and the fact that not only is it a bureaucratic state body that, in its work, needs to do something that is, in fact, a distraction of the public, as well as in the very report that has been sent to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and which contains 1,073 pages. I hope that you have already started to read or are at the end of the reading, which is the National Strategy of the Serbian State to join the EU. On page 557, there is an assessment of the work of the Public Procurement Administration. Madam Minister, I assume you know what document I'm talking about. He's fatter than the budget. We got it on October 8th this year and I started slowly, by segments to read it, so I came back again. I also fall into Eurosceptics, as well as Mr Krasic. After all, all Serbian radicals and all Serbian citizens, and they are growing more and more, who see that all these "supply" by the EU can be brought under that old legend of gifts that the Danish bring to you. Now I want to tell you through some concrete examples and through an evaluation of the office that participated in the development of this national strategy for what the Public Procurement Administration did. That's how Serbian citizens should know that, by your assessment, it's one organ that can and doesn't have to do its job. Because if the administration doesn't do part of the job, who's in charge. The report, I apologize, page 596 of the document, reads: "The Public Procurement Administration has taken practical measures to create preconditions for the application of new legal solutions and to ensure greater transparency of the procurement process. The public procurement portal, which officially started on 18 February 2008 and free of charge of public calls, decisions on selecting the most favourable bidder," etc. So they can, and they don't have to. And in practice, Madam Minister, it is indeed so. I come from Kragujevac, a large city, large budget funds, which since the collection of revenues based on local municipal taxis, the entire property tax, transfer funds and everything that makes up the budget that I hear today was adopted by the illegal work of the Kragujevac City Assembly, because it works with the kidnapped 10 parliamentary mandates of the SRS, which was directly attended by the President of the Kragujevac District Court Miroljub Tomic. It is the only city in which the mandates of Serbian radicals have been kidnapped. Now I'm going to give it to you on the case of several public procurement processes. I'm sorry I didn't bring that material for this opportunity, but you can see how they fold. So, instead of choosing the most favourable bidder, they publish on the Portal, which, according to this report in this national strategy, can save about 12,200 euros a year, they do so, for example, through the "Priboj newspaper". Did any of you guys hear about the Precinct Newspaper? Maybe someone did, maybe they didn't, but who's reading "Precinct paper"? They are obliged to publish a public call or a "Chachan voice". If he reads someone in Chacan voice, then he'll read eventually one who's dealing with Stevanovic for the behaton board. Veroljub Stevanovic figured it out, and then he advertises public calls in the "Pribojski Novi" in "Chachanski Vos" in this, in that. It won't be safe in Politics. However, it is in "Politica" for Djokovic's salary, but four parcels have also been advertised, one of which is in a multi-year dispute with Rado Belgrade. You now see, Mrs Dragutinovic, how untransparent that is, since that term has been used here since 2001. Then how can the citizens protect themselves from it? The budget inspection doesn't come there, there's no state audit agency, it's just been established now. Everyone received a memo from Vesna Djindjic, each year it went through automation, that it wasn't necessary, and they said "no". Again, I must mention my colleague Sasa Valjarevic, when he was the director of the municipal company in Pozarevec, is the only director of the municipal enterprise in Serbia who has externally hired an auditory house to review the business of the company he was head of. There's no such thing in Kragujevac. Why not? You know, former head of the Board of Economics and Finance of the town of Kragujevac, a certain Ratko Jovanovic, justified the fact that it was expensive, that there are not many who are highly licensed to do the job and ate the donkey wolf. Now we Kragujevci need to think about why in the street of Lola Ribara, it is the center of the town of Kragujevac, only the heart of the city, Veroljub Stevanović, in the course of two of his mandates twice in a year replaced the behaton plates. The other day I was talking about what was the symbol of the town of Kragujevac, which is the kaldrma in that area, he took out. It's like now someone in the middle of Verona from Bra or the Spanish square in Rome would take out all those records and say nice, let's hit the asphalt. It's nice here, one asphalt, and like this, if it were smooth, those Italians would be surprised, they wouldn't be able to believe it, and it would be done in a town in France, Spain or anywhere. So it's at least crazy thinking, but it's a big thief. This is just one example, and so if you are from the DS, and you from the Serbian government are energizingly and sharply going into the fight against crime and corruption, here you go, Mrs Dragutinovic, comb through other Serbian cities, I have given you only one initiative, and you, based on my expressed suspicions, am a council member in the Kragujevac City Assembly already in the third term, MP already in the fifth term, please, send a budget inspection to review how the budget funds of the town of Kragujevac are spent. Because it's not all so transparent. Now let's talk a little bit about how they're mad at each other, precisely because it's full of the possibility of abuse of the Public Procurement Act, as this will be, when they come from two different political parties. You have all, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, heard about the affair of the Clinical and Hospital Center Bezanjska hair and of the great halabuka, which Dragana Jovanovic, the city secretary, is what they call health care, has started for the purchase of primarily furniture, because the city of Belgrade has funded the purchase of furniture for KBC, i.e. Polyclinic Bezanijska hair. Now someone can conclude that you are here on this case by Knezevic, so now these Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić and her husband, who was mentioned earlier by Mr Krstin, and so some of whom you are probably running down the water from the DS set off to deal with crime. When it comes to KBC Bezanijan hair and this bickering between Health Secretary Dragana Jovanovic and Djilas, however, it is a conflict of interest between DS and G17. Who manages the homes of health, hospitals, who has entered the anals of the government of all Serbia since we have elections, which is Tomica Milosavljevic, who has been elected four or five times as health minister. What Nikola Milic, director of KBC, says, is Bezanija's hair on the charges, since he is a member of G17, Dragan Gilas. I repeat, the money for the purchase of furniture came from the Belgrade city budget, and what these criminals would say in the jargon, they drowned with each other, so this one is now angry, accused, that they agreed together where they were going to get and how they were going to get furniture, there would be nothing, and none of this would have started. This is what the city's budget inspection is supposed to be doing, and it's frantic what this man is saying, I think every medical worker is surprised, not to mention the sick and those who, thank God, are healthy in Serbia, for these statements he made. You know what he said? He says the furniture has to be quality, because it affects the hospitalization. Then he says, how will you, and these are his statements, if you don't clean up a good hospital, like the Bezanian hair, no one will be treated unless you've done a nice job in the facility. That's his reference. He says, that's why we treated the whole of SANU, the ministers, and the previous mayor. This is not a normal statement. If we live in Serbia, in which the hospitals were grounded, the Kragujevac Clinical Center last year received the status of a clinical center, here's Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, who in the most difficult conditions of sanctions, war, the pressure on our country was the director of the then-Kravjevka polyclinic centre, if we do not have a city hospital that is needed in such a big city, please, as it is possible that someone is making such statements and that justice is bought by a Chiviluk of 162 euros and still dares to say, it is no big deal, we have checked that the Eurosalon has offered a similar price of 17,000 to 30,000 dinars and this of 162 euros is a very decent price. The furniture is antibacterial, which is also insane, and every doctor and every medical doctor will tell you that it's not the basis for quality treatment, and it doesn't say anything in any document, no prevention, no treatment for any disease. Besides, if I didn't get into what I don't know now, behind me is a professor of medical school, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, who could also confirm it to you, and everyone, not just her, but a student of medical school. Not to mention that the bench in the waiting room was paid for 200,000 dinars, the tea kitchen 750,000 and apparently did not know all this in the process of purchasing Dragan Gilas, but has now collapsed on them since the job was finished. All because he did not find his percentage, as did the city's secretary, or as they call the Belgrade City Health Secretary, and it is only one of the reportedly discovered affairs. What do you think, that something special, this budgetary inspection of the city of Belgrade, is going to investigate it. He won't. Gilas had already gone and apologized to him, they drank coffee, who knows how much those cups cost. After all, we also had the case of Marija Rasete-Vukosavljevic, the equipment of the "Nikola Tesla" airport, and the banjamina, and the ficus, and the spoon, and the tray. No one has answered so far, as our people say, he didn't lack hair from his head. That's what it looks like when you have a public procurement process in Serbia and on the Portal, as I said earlier, you can, and you don't have to publish an invitation to participate in any competition and when it's a competition commission, we talked about it yesterday, at the beginning of this law, so that people from the profession don't sit there again, they can, and they don't have to, but in Serbia they kidnap and steal anyone who's in the opportunity, and they're in the parties in power, out of the pockets of this poor and poor people, Serbian citizens. That's why I'm going back to the beginning of this amendment. The only way SRS uses this clear speech is by making clear examples to the citizens of Serbia and it is our guarantee that we can reach a clear conscience, and this is the vast majority and largest number of Serbian citizens, to round our list in the next elections and to vote for us, who will always protect each of the crime and corruption that is most pronounced in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10294	Members of the 115th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Mojovic and Nebojsa Ceran. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Christin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Vitomir Plužarevic has submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on public procurement. Namely, the costs of the procedure, Article 117, says: "The applicant is obliged to pay a fee of 60,000 dinars to a certain account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, or 30,000 dinars, if it comes to public procurement of small value. ''A colleague Vitomir Plužarevic gave an explanation of the submission of the amendment and why Article 117(1) should be deleted. The assumption is that if someone is seeking the protection of the right to do so, there are serious reasons, and that the person seeking protection has seen serious irregularities in the procedure, so because of this fact, the claimant for protection of the right should not be punished too high a tax on the claim for protection of the right. The urgency of passing this law by your standards and criteria is unwarranted, and you know it yourself. You are supposed to speed up the accession process to the European Union, and today, the European Union does not care to join you allegedly. What will you do with the EU now that they have an answer for you on any approach. These are different blackmails without end, today Eulex, tomorrow Kosovo or already Kosovo, then a debt in many billions of euros that you have entrusted to the state and many other elements you know, which I am not going to mention now, so that accession is also known to our politicians who do these dirty jobs for them. They will all act as Bojan Kristo, to fly into some of them known destinations, if they are allowed to do so. During all stages of the procedure, tenderers were provided with legal protection by the Republic Commission, protection of public procurement rights, which is an independent and independent body. That farce law is known to everyone in the state, and there's nothing from that protection. The right to protection is socialised to pay a 60,000-dollar fee on the account of the Serbian budget, or 30,000 dinars, in the case of low-value purchases. This amount of money does nothing to the Republic Commission, except to disabling applicants for such requests. The Government has also given its reasons for this amendment, and this explanation reads: 'Amendman is not accepted for the reason that he submits a claim for the protection of the right, pursuant to Article 109(1). The proposal for a law on public procurement, retains the activities of the contracting authorities in the procurement process until the decision on the application has been made, is quite possible for the tenderers to abuse their rights, and for the undue submission of requests to interfere further with the implementation of the procurement procedure, which may result in the normal performance of the customer’s business and, therefore, the fulfilment of the needs of citizens. It is therefore necessary to oblige the applicant to require protection of the right to pay the prescribed amount of tax prior to the application, in order to prevent, to that end, the submission of a claim which, as a sole objective, has a groundless distraction or disabling of the contracting authority from carrying out the procurement procedure. It should be noted in this respect that any applicant will be reimbursed the amount he has paid on the name of the claim for protection of rights, through the compensation of the costs of the procedure in the event that he succeeds with his request and in accordance with Article 117(3). Proposal for a law on public procurement. ''The state auditors must be paid to fight all mafia bosses who break all the barriers and laws in this country with their small finger, and especially this law on public procurement, which is now current in Serbia. We see public procurement being conducted in state institutions, such as the procurement of the police ministry's uniform, which these days is the main topic of information funds. Public procurement in Serbia is linked to the character of the government. It doesn't have to be compared, it's every step of the way with that famous wing - where I am. Foreign capital investors in Serbia cannot reconcile with the fact that this beauty is a requirement -- where I am, so large, that it makes it difficult for this long-awaited capital to enter our country. It's impossible to settle all of them and make that capital safe and profitable. My amendment to this article 117 reads that item 1 is deleted and we go with the logic that the proposal is directed in this direction that the payment of 60,000, or 30,000 dinars, will not solve anything. Those who participate in these actions and who want to carry out their task do not mean anything to them, and for normal applicants it is a financial obligation that can and can prevent them from participating in those purchases. You have profiled this law in 11 parts with 128 members, all in order to remove the shortcomings observed in the practical application of the law of the past five years. The amendments only partially direct this law towards this imagined goal, and that goal of yours is inconclusive until you resolve all previous actions. We need to start an economy and bring the country into a state of product making rather than being dependent on everyone in the Balkans and Europe, and therefore we ask for survival. It is necessary to raise from that crawling attitude uprightly, to produce its own products. That's when a law like this can be applied. After my previous presentation of my amendment, I received more calls from citizens of Zrenjanin municipality, who asked me to explain little of these developments in the Zrenjanin municipality as regards, let me say, the little movement of this construction mafia from Zrenjanin to Novi Sad, and then from Novi Sad slowly moves towards Belgrade in terms of white coats. Here, let me try to explain a little bit for this time. I repeat, Director Voda Vojvodine Branislav Radovanovic of Zrenjanin, Director of Public Water Management, was arrested for abuse of official position, and Zoran Stojačić, otherwise the husband of Snezana Lakicevic, the senior official of DS, who is the owner and responsible face of the Nautical and Sailing Club "Sportal" from Perlez near Zrenjanin, was founded on suspicion that they were together with Goran Knezevic, the sole owner of the Nautical and Sailing Club "Sportal", committed assistance in the criminal part of the abuse of official position. Namely, Mr. Radovanovic, Director of Voda Vojvodina, enabled the owners of the Nautical-Sportal Sailing Club, Stojačić and Knezevic, to build a marina at the mouth of the Begej canal in the Tis River, where there is a sailing club on the land that Vojvodine gave them for use. I can imagine how much they've given them, it goes on 99 years, money a year, and it's over. And to make it a mistake for Branislav Radovanovic, director of Voda Vojvodina, he hired a manager who owns the Public Water company Voda Vojvodina, although the company's statute prohibits third party work, as well as a water company "Medni Banat", with an amount of about 40,520 cubic metres of mud being dug up, and a normal team of excavations damaged the Public Water Resources Company for 11 million dinars. It is normal that Radovanovic and Stojačić will today be brought to the investigating judge in the district court's investigation department in Belgrade, which adds that they have been reported by overrunning their official powers to the Zrenjana budget of more than 132 million dinars, by implementing them, I am talking about public procurement in the town of Zrenjanin, public procurement for the purchase of various equipment that was not foreseen by the budget positions. The organized group thus obtained property benefit in the amount of, gentlemen of the citizens of Zrenjanin, 56 million dinars, which is about 700,000 euros to you. I repeat, Mr. Tomic, called Baćko, an unconquered circuit MP, in a pre-election campaign that promised towers and cities, did not promise only what he did because it was proven, Mr. Nikola Halas, the brain of all these shops, Mr. Dimkic, who is head of finance, and the normal mayor, without his signature could not have been anything. Therefore, gentlemen, since I would like to leave a colleague to say something in the next four or five minutes, it remains only for me that the affairs began to shake and the white mantles in Belgrade, next to KBC Refugee Hair, Star Director and Zemun, for the time being, are the health homes of Palilula and Starar, where there should be a shift of directors who broke the law on public procurement and, as far as I can see, I wonder, so the DS, along with its coalition partners in Belgrade, did not set up an SRS. That we stayed, i.e. If we had been, believe me, they would have been where the law would have prescribed them by now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10296	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10297	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I also join my colleague, Plužarevic, who gave this amendment to the proposal for a law on public procurement. It is very important to know that this first position of Article 117 reads: "The applicant is obliged to pay a fee of 60,000 to a certain account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. 30,000 in the case of small-value public procurement. '" Mr. Plužarevic suggested that this be deleted and the previous speaker explained why it was necessary to delete this. Also, I would like to continue what I started in the first reporting, which is the story of competences and the story of how citizens' resources, which are collected in various ways and poured into the budget, are spent unintentionally, being poured from one ministry to another, again in a way that the ministry's jurisdiction is avoided, to avoid the process of public procurement and how that money is definitely poured into the pockets of private persons, which in no way should be stimulated. So I will repeat that I have repeatedly asked Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning. Of course, these are not specific things at the time when he's the minister in this ministry, but since he's in charge, I think I need them to answer these questions. They repeat the story of ambrosia, mosquitoes and ticks. Apparently, that story had a big echo in public and a lot of people, who were in charge of these affairs in various parts of the country, reported and confirmed my allegations and asked for this thing to be examined. What's interesting now, I started the story in my first report, is the story of this action called "Million Trees for Serbia". I've got a lot of materials here that apply to that. One of these materials is this material, in which Minister Dragin, at the time of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, was then called. It is said, on 4 March 2008, that the Ministry of Ecology is beginning to implement the project: "Million Trees for Serbia", whose aim is to improve air quality, create protective belts between industrial zones and cities and along roads, as well as to prevent erosion caused by winds, which are growing. Of course, it's all right. Indeed, the purpose of this action is quite fine. Everything here would be perfectly fine if the Ministry of Ecology were in charge of this job. So, the Ministry of Ecology isn't responsible for this job. I've looked at the Ministry Act in the past term, I've looked at this law in the current term, and these jobs have been before, and now the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has been in charge, specifically the Forest Administration. Not Minister Dragin and not the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So, I will take the opportunity to ask the authorities: which ministry was responsible for the "million Trees for Serbia" action; which ministry has paid millions of seedlings; from whom have they been bought and at what price of this seedling? What I'm particularly interested in is the department's jurisdiction. According to my information, therefore, the Ministry of Environmental Protection was not responsible for this job, and it is very strange that so much money and so much work was done in favour of another ministry. The second question that I have also, in the first reporting, is the issue of the Great Back Channel, therefore, more information. That information came from a few letters that we received from various ecological movements, say, the Ecological Movement of Vrbas and so on. It refers to Dusan Pajkic's promise, then assistant environmental minister, of 20. 09. In 2007. In that promise, Mr. Pajkic, as assistant environmental minister, says that within a year, the Great Back Channel will be purified. Look out, it's about a year's worth. It's December 12th, 2008. So in September 2008, the promise had to be fulfilled if the job was finished. However, given that the procedure for the whole job is taking a long time, that an environmental impact assessment should be made, which implies public debate on the subject, so that there are many permits, simply the procedure itself should last more than a year in the country of Serbia, so it was clear in the beginning that there will be nothing from the promise, at least there will be no time in which Mr Pajkic promised that the job would be completed. Of course, even today, the Great Back Channel has not been cleaned, although it is a really big problem for 100,000 people who live in the large four-packs of municipalities and the amount of money needed shows that it will almost not be cleaned up. What my question is -- which ministry was responsible for this job, so the ministry's jurisdiction for this job interests me, and which ministry took over and did it do it? I'm saying again, it was the Ministry of Agriculture, the Water Administration, I'm speaking under the Ministry Act, so the Government Act. It was huge funds and somehow it was the responsibility of the second ministry to retake over the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Minister Dragin. I'm also asking for an answer, how could Mr. Milan Stevic, in charge of finance at the Ministry of Environment, approve of the accidental spending of funds? On what basis is unintended spending of funds granted? I think it's very interesting that we get these answers right now in the debate on amendments to the Public Procurement Act, because if we can't prevent corruption, and especially that part, and above all spending money unintentionally, means, incompetent, which is a crime, we won't be able to move on and we won't be able to get out of this, no matter how politically we promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10298	Thank you. National MP Vladan Jeremic. You've got a little over four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I fully support the amendment tabled by fellow MP Vitomir Plužarevic, as it is another amendment that has a fundamental character and which is indeed aimed at improving the proposed legislative solution. They repeat once again the fact, which I have pointed out several times already, which is that the biggest problem actually lies in the fact that laws are not implemented in practice, or worse, the provisions of the proposed legal solutions are misused by the authorities. And one of the many equative examples is the fact that, according to the budget inspection, there is a cash register, and I can say freely, one of the most powerful Belgrade municipalities – Old Town, whose head is for the third time President Mirjana Bozidarevic, otherwise when DS, was made short, as determined by a budget inspection in 2003, at the height of 6.8 million dinars. The heart of Belgrade and, as it is said in the jargon -- the golden coke DS is exactly the Old Town municipality, where the yellow company personnel have been actively ruling for more than a decade. Why is Old Town so important? The old town is actually the epicenter of the elite Belgrade business space and usually for the most profitable activities, which is how it fills the municipal register. When the Belgrade suburban municipalities of Te2003. In the year, one of them was Mladenovac, where I came from, barely put an end to the end, for example, the budget of the Old Town municipality amounted to 468 million dinars. That year, municipal authorities didn't even know how to spend that kind of money, so only about 304.9 million dinars were spent. If we look at the structure of the municipal budget's income, we'll see that exactly the location, that is, the territory of the Old Town municipality's coverage, is this gold chick I was talking about. Only on the basis of the leases of business premises, the inflow amounted to 437 million dinars, which is also the largest income the municipality made in that year. What's interesting about finding a budget inspection? First of all, the control was based only on serious control of the payout of employees and transport costs, as well as selective control of all four public procurements. In addition, in a few sentences, inspectors find that 21.9 million dinars from the budget reserves were spent in a legitimate manner, as well as keeping the municipality's accounts up to date in 2003. It is illogical that the inspection does not search the entire business of a city municipality, which then had these impressive 468 million dinars, but probably there were some democratic reasons for such a methodological approach to budgetary control. Legality control when paying off earnings and other incomes on earnings and in this municipality has proved to be a real hit in Achilles's heel. The famous illegal purchase of loyalty and peace in the house of money from the budget was also carried out in the municipality of Old Town. The inspectors found that the municipal authorities correctly applied the basis provided by the Serbian Government with their own act when calculating the salaries of employees and municipal officials. However, municipal authorities have adopted their own rules on salaries, allowances, fees and other receipts of officials and officials in the municipal administration, which has served only as a front for the illegal waste of money and party corruption. This act specifies that officials and officials have the right to supplement their salary at a certain percentage of their incomes and, on the basis of the productivity achieved and the savings in the use of funds and labour results achieved in the work of the municipality's authorities. The inspection also found that on regular admissions, officials and officials in the municipality received these allowances, on average 24, 27 and 30% on earnings, while individual municipal inspectors and officials were going to receive a 50% profit allowance. During the control of such worship and bloating of wages, the inspection found a violation of the provisions of the laws on salaries and governmental authorities, public services and the Law of Indulgence, which was then, in 2003. However, municipal leadership tried to justify claims that the 2003 Budget Law did not mean that it was prohibited or restricted. Such arguments that had no basis for... (President: Bring the end, five minutes speak.) I'm bringing the end... By means of positive legal regulations, the budgetary inspection did not accept, so it ordered the municipal authorities to return 6.2 million dinars to the municipality's budget within six months, to the extent that it was illegally paid, and to the name of increased stimulative supplements for municipal officials and officials. There were other irregularities, control was carried out only for four public procurements, which ranged from 3.4 to 4.9 million dinars, etc. There are many examples of how this practice was conducted in institutions of educational, cultural and health institutions, and it is very important to point out that the circle of companies that get a job in this way is very narrow and pre-known, and the chosen prices are the most expensive in Serbia. The only thing left to ask ourselves is where this ship sails, if this is how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10300	According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10301	Respecting the dignity of the National Assembly, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have the pleasure of our famous swimmer Milorad Cavic congratulating on the new European record. News has just been released that young Serbian patriot has broken the European 100m butterfly record at the Rijeka Championship and on behalf of Serbian Radicals, and I congratulate you all, and I want him to have a lot of success, noting that the city of Belgrade did not want to provide him with and provide what he had promised him. Therefore, I guess this will be another sign more that Milorad Cavic is Serbia's pride and that we should help him and be proud of him in other European and world competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10302	Be our bearer of this news more often. On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Avramovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10303	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that the exact thesis of the SRS MPs is that the Law on Public Procurement serves to iron, buy votes and finance budget accounts in all municipalities in Serbia also speak the following examples. On behalf of my fellow MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, I came out to give an example and an explanation why he submitted this amendment asking for a new point to be added in Article 122, paragraph 1 after point 6) if the competitive documentation does not contain all the elements or data in the competition documentation not identical to the information given in the public call. ''This, first of all, refers to infringement provisions regarding competition documents and ways - what all is subject to infringing provisions. Unfortunately, these infringements in the first law were never respected, although they were determined by budgetary inspection, but sanctions, i.e. the responsibility for such a thing has not yet been tolerated by the presidents of the municipalities where it has been established, and I will now set an example. First, to present an explanation why this amendment has been tabled, the proposed solution is to sanction a possible breach of Article 30, and the legislator has left it explicitly prescribed as an infringement. No matter what all the competitive documentation must contain in order for the bidder to prepare the right offer on the basis of it, one law hole space has again been left to be used with the most legal means to obtain material benefits. It is also prescribed in Article 30(2) that the data contained in the competitive documentation must be identical to the information given in the public call. What's the point of the whole story? In practice, what is currently happening, this can be seen from the minutes, the budgetary inspection of the Ministry of Finance very often in its control procedures finds that the contracting authorities publish one information in a public call and other information in the competition documentation. If so, I will give you an example from the municipality of Pančevo, because I will use the presence of the then-president of the municipality, today's colleague Srdjan Mikovic, who has entered the parliamentary seat of the current president of the Pancheva municipality, in which a 5.5m-euro loan has been granted in an illegal manner. Therefore, in the course of the control of the documentation relating to the lending of the municipality to a business bank, the budgetary inspection has established the illegality of wide scales. Namely, the detour that the president, our colleague, then head of Srdjan Mikovic's municipality, came up with a 5.5m-euro loan, was illegal, while the loan contract was void. Here is how it started: by making a decision by SO Panchevo, which decided that the municipality could be in charge, after which municipal authorities launched a high-value procurement procedure. Thus, a public call in Serbian and English was published in the "Official Messenger" and in the "Today" list, and the subject of the call was the procurement of financial services -- a credit responsibility for capital investments. Remember that - capital investments. The municipality had previously, according to the Public Procurement Administration's consent, designed this procurement in five separate parties or in general. The Commission for the selection of the most favourable bidder, which was educated by municipal authorities, made the minutes, I will also give you a date, 31 August 2006, from which the budgetary inspection found that three bids had arrived. However, only one offer from Bank "Intez" AD from Belgrade, the Regional Centre of Pancevo, was correct, while the remaining three bids were unrated because they failed to meet the requirements of the competition documentation. Why they didn't meet the conditions, you can see from my previous exposure. In the absence of the conditions laid down in the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, which required the provision of at least two independent offers, Pančevo municipality intervened with the Public Procurement Administration. This authority has been asked to make corrections, i.e. that the contract was awarded in the process of guessing, because there were no more than one candidate, and it is automatically clear to you that it was an agreement between the Bank "Intez" and the municipality of Pancheva and that it was requested from the Public Procurement Authority of the guessing procedure, without prior publication. Within just five days, the Public Procurement Authority replied to the municipal commission, stating that their request was incomplete and incomplete, that it did not state at all the reasons why they considered it important to implement the contract in a shortened procedure, without the publication of a new tender. Afterwards, the Commission explained its request and re-delivered the Public Procurement Administration. This time in just four days, the administration responded negatively to the municipality's request, taking the view that the procurement process should be repeated because the purchase value exceeds three million dinars. At first sight, it would be said that the municipal leaders agreed with this warrant, as the official messenger published a notice on 26 September 2006 that public procurement was invalidated in full, while the bidders were also sent a letter on 14 September of the same year in which they were informed that they had not obtained the conditions for selecting the most favourable bidder. So we're getting to the point. However, that municipal authorities also had a spare scenario confirms a memo on 12 September 2006, which the president of the procurement commission referred to to the president, our colleague, Srdjan Mikovic and the Municipal Council. In this letter, the President of the Municipality is asked to take a position on the conclusion of a credit debt contract without the realisation of the procurement procedure. As a reason for such a move, it is argued that the recurrence of the procedure would result in additional costs and delaying the completion of the procurement procedure, and thus the conclusion of the loan contract, with reasonable concern that other banks would not report. This initiative also notes that emergency interventions are investment of capital and general interest, as well as that the decision on the 2006 budget obliges the municipality to implement planned investments. So, to the president then, to our colleague Mikovic, who is sitting in the hall today, and if I'm telling the truth, he's going to say that, since this is a report of a budget inspection, this letter was appropriate, so at the Municipal Council, he acted on a conclusion that approved credit borrowing without legal procedure. This conclusion, signed by Srdjan Mikovic himself, obliged him to realise the credit debt. The Department of Finance of the Municipal Administration sent calls for tenders past the law to address 33 banks. The opinion of the Public Procurement Authority has been affected, but the Public Procurement Act has also been passed. The budget inspection has established that this is the behaviour of the municipality in the case of a credit debt on capital investments, the total value of 439,3 million dinars, contrary to Article 20. Public procurement laws. The inspection also found that zero all contracts were concluded in this way. So, it's a classic mix-up of a yellow company, whose employees didn't want to comply with the legal procedure, because they'd lose time, and that's why they delayed the robbery for maybe one of the years to come. If that were the case, I have here a record of a budget inspection and I would only list a few more examples, since I am currently in the municipality of Panchevo, but SRS MPs are bringing abuses from all municipalities, especially where DS is in power. So we have a report on the budget inspection of the Carnaval without a tender. So it is said - in 2006 in Pančevo was held the Third International Pančeva Carnival, which is partly and financed by the budget of the Pančevo municipality. Thus, President Mikovic concluded that he had singled out 200,000 dinars for the organisation of this carnival from the municipal budget. The Regional Secretariat for Education and Culture also allocated an amount of 500,000 dinars from the current AP budget reserve, which was transferred to the municipality in terms of a donation for carnival needs. You see how all votes are bought, how one party is organised, especially when it comes to election campaigns. On two occasions, in March and July 2006, Panchevo municipality transferred funds totalling 700 thousand dinars to the account of the Pančevo Friends Association, entrusted with the carnival organisation. However, President Mikovic's decision in July 2006 also allocated funds from the municipal budget to pay for accommodation and food costs for carnival guests, who were staying at the Hotel Tamis. The costs incurred by the municipality were 714 thousand dinars per hotel account, which were recorded on the economic classification of grant to NGOs. Just pay attention to what's going on. The following year, the Fourth International Pancheva Carnival was held, which was also partly financed by the municipality's budget. Thus, this time, President Mikovic resolved the bag and approved transfers totalling a million 261 thousand 422 dinars at the expense of the Panchev Friends Association. That's what-- I give you five, you spend three, one you put in your pocket and one you give me back. However, this time too, the costs of accommodation and feeding of carnival participants in the hotel "Tamis" amounting to 804 thousand and 300 dinars, which was borne by the Directorate for Construction and Editing of Panchev. By controlling the financial documentation on the transfers and payments made to carnivals in 2006 and 2007, the budgetary inspection found that the financing of the organisation of these carnivals, which were scheduled as a city event, was not carried out in accordance with the law. According to the inspection, the municipality of Panchevo entrusted business with the realization of the said carnival to the Association "Friends of Pancheva" without having previously implemented the procedure for the public procurement of small value, nor had the contract with this association been concluded. Such procedures in both years have violated the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. However, this policy by favouring their friends has always been and will remain characteristic of the yellow company. Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the examples, and there are many, can be read in the list of "Great Serbia", which speak of what public procurement means, what holes in the law mean and how houses, vehicles, voices, packages and all that is needed to survive in power. I note that Pančevo DS is in power for a long time and that this is an obvious example, which has established a republican budgetary inspection, and clear evidence of what and who it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10304	The word is Mr. Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10305	I can also talk about the amendment, as the predecessor also spoke about the amendment, and Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic's amendment is on Article 122. Anyway, it's about the Public Procurement Act. The fact is, the current law on public procurement needs to be fixed. The fact is that Article 78(4) of the proposal provides a proposal to amend the Public Procurement Act. The fact is, no one has put an amendment on this bill in that article. What does that mean? The contracting authority shall make a decision on the selection of the most favourable offer if it has obtained at least one correct and appropriate offer. The fact is that in the bill of law, all of us sitting in this room, and the legislator, we have concluded that this is a good solution, because if it were not a good solution, surely at least one of the 250 MPs would put a proposal to regulate it differently. What's this about? One of those municipalities that was controlled over the past period was Panchevo municipality. The fact is that within 40 days of working on a budget inspection, which controlled the work of local self-government, only what was present in about 140 municipalities on the territory of Serbia, which I think is undeniable. The fact is that with regard to the investments planned by the decision on the budget of the local self-government, and these investments were voted in the SO committee vote, among other things Mr. Petar Jojic, former Deputy Republic Minister of Justice and former federal minister of justice, and he was one of those who sat in the hall and who were present with a budgetary decision to take certain capital investments in the Pancheva municipality area, in order to improve the lives of the citizens of the Pancheva municipality. It is for these capital investments that the decision has been made, first investment has been declared as such - capital, and a decision on credit debt has been made. In the process, in order to obtain the most favourable offers of credit-debt banks, a preliminary review has been done and everything as it goes, in order to reach the final offers, the most favourable bids, that the Pancheva municipality, in accordance with all that has been received from the Ministry of Finance, to the height and manner of the debt, in order to meet this. The fact is that in the first round of supply offers came one correct and two wrong offers. The two options were either to cancel that public tender for bids, and to start from the beginning and to lose again a few months, and the construction season in progress. I must say, only after the decision on the budget has been made have the conditions to move into the previous paragraph. Before that, he can't, because he doesn't have the resources. All the lawyers know that very well. That is why, with the notice of the Municipal Council of ILOCAL Self-Government, I repeat, in which we were all sitting and present committees of all parties, a notice has been made and it has been concluded that, within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act, it is possible for each bank to make an adequate offer to raise credit. All registered banks in Serbia received an offer with adequate documentation, a total of 38 banks registered in Serbia. They all got bids and each bank practically got a return to get the paperwork. Afterwards, bids came again, where the Inteza Bank's offer was most favourable, and a later check found that out of dozens of offers in Serbia, the very offer offered to the Pancevo municipality was in the five most favourable territory of Serbia. As far as this is concerned, the interests and public interests, public information, have been provided that no capital investment on the territory of the municipality of Panchevo and that the most useful and rational use of social resources on the territory of the municipality is made available. It's not a secret. Among other things, and before my dear fellow MP said this, I was just telling you about this case, from word to word, Mrs. Verice Radetti, she can confirm this case, that it happened. There are no secrets about such things. In any case, what Mr. MP read is about the first report of the budget inspection, which was later held responsible and given an explanation of the conduct of the local self-government. As for the second event, which was the Pančeva Carnival, which was the fifth international carnival last year, everyone knows very well that we have just been engaged by these NGOs and local self-government in Pancheva so far that Serbian cities have entered the Federation of European Carnival Cities. The fact is that the carnival is such a event, where from the smallest children and adults participate, children with special needs and those who need such manifestations the most. The fact that, according to official information from Mr Van den Kron, who led the European Federation of Carnival Cities, 100 000 citizens participated in this last year, according to him. We can talk about the importance of this event, and many important individuals currently serving in Belgrade, and from abroad, have been able to plead most favourably. Such an international event as guests receives many groups from the environment, from the former Yugoslavia and from the environment. In any case, everything regarding the conduct of local self-government in relation to this event is in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10306	Mr. Avramovic, according to the amendment. You've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10307	Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about the abuse of the Law on Public Procurement and the amendment of Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, which says that tender documentation is one thing and the procurement is quite another. That is why it is necessary to inform the budgetary inspection and to find a moduso for which such things will be punished. So here, absolutely a colleague, Mikovic, came out and admitted the mistake of the Panchevo municipality while he was its president. That's why I'm asking that a stenogram of exposure be delivered to the district attorney's office, because the law, whether we like it or not, must be respected. Your confession was from this pay phone and I'm asking you and the budget inspection report - has this record changed? I would remind you that the contributions to the biography of this yellow company worker were written by the Ministry of Finance's budgetary inspection, which dealt with the examination of his abilities as president of the Pancheva municipality. Thus, the control of material finance operations, dedicated and legal use of municipal funds was carried out in October 2007, and the record was made up in 7.11.2007 and was filed in the Ministry of Finance under number 40100-1377/2007/09. This record has not been changed. If you've had eight days to write your remarks, it means you're aware of the facts, that's the budget inspection she wrote, her actions and her mistakes. Mr. Mikovic, the control was carried out by budgetary inspector Dragica Pantelic, who can be said to be one of the top inspectors of the Ministry of Finance and with a long-standing experience in inspection affairs in the field of public finances. If it represents this problem, and we represent and read behind the speaker of the Serbian Parliament, then you can comment on it and say it is not true. But this record, Mr. Mikovic, has not been changed. Because it hasn't been changed means that your objections have been rejected and that you have been prepared within eight days. That's why I'm asking for responsibility. A stenogram from today's D.A.'s office to deliver and determine the fact of who's right: this Finance Ministry controller or you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10308	Mr. Mikovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10309	Again, I must say, a fellow MP is calling for the minutes on which the complaint has been filed and, on the basis of that objection, a solution to the budgetary inspection was later made. If we are to be absolutely honest and complete here, I must say that my colleague failed to say that the solution of that budgetary inspector was going in that direction that local self-government should not be paying the water contribution of Vojvodina to the waters, but that it should be paying the budget. Just after that, on the basis of the local self-government's objection that it should be paid because a invoice is obtained from a public state-owned company, the report was corrected and the local self-government's position to do so was accepted. So, don't let something that's working material and it's not finally being brought out here, because all of this brings in adequate solutions from the budgetary inspector and the thing is solved. This is how you make an impression in public, and it has nothing to do with material truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10310	Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this certainly has to do with the fact that several transfers totalling 7,896,839,00 dinars were made on the burden of the budget of the Panchevo municipal administration in 2006 at the expense of the Public Water Company of Vojvodina. Namely, the annual compensation for irrigating construction land, the budget inspection found that this payment was unlawfully carried out because there was no legal basis for it. The funds were to be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, not at the expense of the Public Enterprise. Mr. Mikovic, these are the basic clauses written in the record of a budget inspection that you do not want to accept, with all objections. But let me remind you that there is also a part in this objection that relates to the calculation of the base of wages that you had in the Pancheva municipality. I set this up as an example in the Sava Veneto municipality and you arranged with me and explained to me that this was an example done throughout Serbia, right? And that this example is the abuse of base accounting and the pumping of wages beyond a regulation that provides for what basis it should be. The practice you use in all the municipalities where you're in power, right? Here, if you have time and will, I'll read about how it was done in the Panchevo municipality on pay, but time won't allow. It is said this - the budget inspection found that the payment of salaries in the municipality of Pančevo in 2006 in the first 9 months of 2007 was made contrary to the provisions of the Law on Salaries, because the budget was wrongly damaged by 82,57,419,00 dinars. In 2006 you determined the basis for the collection and payment of salaries to employees, elected, appointed and appointed persons in the municipality. These conclusions were made contrary to the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which had previously established coefficients for all employees of state authorities and public services. Here is the short one, the amount of 13.087 dinars was established as the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries for the elected, appointed and appointed persons, while according to the Government's conclusion the base was 10,737 dinars, 3,000 and something more. In the second conclusion, you set the amount of 2,634 dinars as the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries to the municipal administration, while the government decided that the base was 2,300 dinars. So these are the differences in basics just, when you calculate the total average of the salary, you'll see that it's, I don't have time now, and I'd read it to you, what is the difference between the force and the government's decision being knocked up... (President: Mr Avramović, it's been three minutes, please. Here I am, sorry, in the name of the addendum to the employees you've hired and who you choose to give them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10312	Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10313	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I only have a few things to say. In 2004, he was the senior official of the Serbian Radical Party, Ms. Maja Gojkovic, and just the first local self-government to face certain needs of salary correction or coefficients in local self-government was in Novi Sad. The fact is that there is a record of the budgetary inspection there, that the complaint has been made, that the solution was then made, that after that decision that has become a forcefully initiated administrative dispute with regard to the resolution of the capacity of employees in local self-governments. The fact is that this is exactly how many local self-governments have gone, and that no procedure has moved as far as in Novi Sad on the exhaustion of all these legal means that have been questioned, let me say, all these inspectorial findings. Otherwise, the fact is that the MP is being called to the record. I repeat, on the basis of this report, an objection has been made and only later has a solution been made. It was just later that the solution and the subsequent conduct of the budget inspection gave the local self-government the right to be right about both the water contribution and everything else. So the water contribution can't be paid into the budget, it can be paid by public state-owned companies' invoices. I just pointed out that in this regard, it was one material that preceded the final solution, meaning that the whole of everything should be seen and all other acts should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10314	On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here, you have a word. Mr. Milojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 122(2), asking that the words '20,000 to 50,000 dinars' be replaced by '50,000 to 100,000 dinars'. The proposed change in the range of penalties aims to further sanction a found criminal breach of public procurement procedures by the responsible person in the legal person treated as a contracting entity in the sense of the law. The existing criminal policy is poor, and it should be taken into account in particular that public procurement is the most corrupt area in Serbia. For the same infringements, the contracting officer as a legal person is punished in the range of 100,000 to 1,000 dinars, resulting in this penalty falling on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget, while the responsible person who directly violates the law is cheating on tenders and creating consequences for the republic's budget remains unpunished or, in rare cases, slightly fined. It is a very bad criminal policy that leads to the continued repetition of law violations, corruption spreading, and the responsible are not sanctioned. As a reason for higher penalties, I will give you examples of former managers at Belgrade Airport and the directors of several Belgrade companies; they have damaged this company from March 2003 to April 2004 and have benefited from around 60 million dinars through public procurement. Ladies and gentlemen, can anyone who obtains an illegal benefit of 60 million dinars pay a fine of 50,000 dinars? They only benefited nearly 30 million at the reconstruction of the terminal, and you remember only the acquisition of images with a market value of about 700 thousand dinars, and to that end, 3.7 million dinars were removed from the airport account. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you remember, and for those of you who have forgotten, I'll remind you of how the other equipment for the airport was obtained: four-seaters, chairs, coffee spoons, napkin holders, trash cans, etc. That this is not a lonely case in the area of public procurement shows us an example of the municipality of Zrenjanin, whose mayor, Goran Knezevic, otherwise of the DS, has been arrested for corruption. Thus, the total absence of criminal policy leaves the mixers to violate the Public Procurement Act without sanctions, thus putting millions of budget funds in deep pockets. It is precisely for these reasons that the Public Procurement Act has lost its meaning today, and it is useful to remind that it is being adopted with the aim of saving and rational use of budget funds, strengthening competition, strengthening anti-corruption mechanisms and faster EU accession. Unfortunately, today this regulation has become an instrument of enormous and rapid wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, this kind of crime should be sanctioned in prison terms, not in cash, no matter how much they may be. That is why we in the SRS believe that this and this law are bad for the state and its citizens, and good for Goran Knezevic, Branislav Vitosevic and similar.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10316	National MP Momir Markovic, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin in defense of both this amendment and the law on the contrary, more specifically on the side of the last list, which says: Reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. "The law needs to be adopted by an urgent procedure, in order to enable anti-corruption authorities to work effectively in the conduct of public spending control operations and to ensure the financial discipline of state authorities, organisations and other legal entities that are obliged to apply the prescribed procedures." Watch this, MPs: "The need for the adoption of an emergency law also suggests that this law is in a group of laws that should be adopted in order to speed up the EU accession process, given that the EU Commission should prepare a report on Serbia's progress in the EU accession process in November 2008. Madam Minister, if you've lost your calendar, then let me remind you that today is December 12th and that Europe has already moved away these months and a half, so we're going to have a hard time catching up. Let's look at what a member of this same law says. He says, "This law goes into effect on the 60th day of the day of publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia." And to remind you, we're bringing him in on an emergency procedure. Article 127 of this same law says: "On the day of entry into force of this law, the Public Procurement Act ceases to apply, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, number 39, since 2002, 43 of 2003, 55 of 2004, 101 of 2005, with the exception of the provisions of the members", etc. This means that the state of Serbia has so far had the Law on Public Procurement, a law that regulates the punishment of offenders in this area, so I don't see why the urgent procedure required the adoption of this law, unless we rushed this in November to be in Europe. Yes, ma'am, in November. To read again, "The need for the adoption of an emergency law suggests the circumstance that this law is in a group of laws that should be adopted as a priority, in order to speed up the EU accession process, given that the EU Commission should prepare a report by November 2008" etc., so as not to eventually receive us into the EU, or that we too have stepped into Europe. The way it's going, it looks like we're on our way. National MP, my colleague Vlad Milojkovic has submitted an amendment to Article 122. Because one of the illogicalities in this article comes out and, of course, we had to try the amendment to respond to at least a little bit of this law. He says this: in the amendment to Article 122(2): the words 20,000 dinars to 50,000 dinars are replaced by the words 50,000 to 100,000 dinars. Why is it illogical? A colleague who works at the Ministry just said they used the Law on Infractions. The most penalties prescribed by the Law of Infractions are in this case. This means that we are not good with the Law of Infractions, because it says, with a fine of 100,000 to millions of dinars, the orderer will be punished or a legal person, and for the violation of Article 1, this member will be punished by a responsible person, that means the Director, that's the one who manages, that means the one who organizes the public procurement. Let's see what they'll be punished for with a fine of 20 to 50,000 dinars. "If the offerer does not give an insight into the information on the public procurement procedure carried out." He says he'll give you insight, but that, brother, is worth it. "If he concludes a contract contrary to the principle of equality of the bidder," means if all bidders are not all equal, one is a little more equal to him, because he found a way to get close to his heart and he will be punished by 20,000 dinars. "If you do not protect the information specified in the offer, according to the appropriate level of confidentiality." So if one of those equals, the most equal, he tells all the data from the offer much sooner than the others or the others he doesn't tell, and he tells him. ''If he doesn't keep records or keep public procurement records. '"Why would he keep records and keep records if he'd done this all before with his equal. He's willing to risk 20,000 dinars. "If he concludes a contract on public procurement without a previously implemented procedure prescribed by this law. "Of course they will conclude the contract and have a price, and then generously give up 20 thousand, up to 50, for the benefit of the state. "If public procurement takes place before the intended conditions are met, if it does not provide competitive documentation to all those seeking it, in accordance with a public call or charge it more than the cost of multiplication" etc. So if he doesn't deliver all the competitive documentation to everyone, but only to the equal or the two of those equal ones, he'll be cut off by the state, he'll be charged 20 grand. "If the subject matter of the contract, conditions, technical specifications or other elements of the competition documentation is adjusted to a specific bidder or if it does not reject the offer of the tenderer involved in the preparation of the competition documentation". You see, it is possible for even one of the bidders to participate in the preparation of competitive documentation. That's why the director's going to be remanded by a state with 20 to 50,000 dinars, and how many directors are going to recap the one he's allowed to enter into the preparation of the paperwork, that remains a secret for now. "If it provides for conditions for participation and criteria which do not comply with this law, if it does not comply with the deadlines, if it does not publish the prescribed ads, if it does not provide information on the public procurement procedures carried out by the Public Procurement Authority." Also, "if by means of an internal act it does not set up a job" etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, does this kind of crime have to be punishable? Why don't you go to the man who did this and get a criminal report, and let the D.A. do his job. Now we have recently passed a law on the prosecution, or we will just vote, it was a law both in principle and in particular in the public debate, and given the majority, you will surely adopt, we have united the prosecutions, we have united the courts in Belgrade, there are two, one for the central part, and the other for the suburban municipalities. There's gonna be a couple hundred prosecutors, so they can do this. Let it be explained to me why this crime cannot be written to the perpetrator, that the commission, that the inspection, that the audit, that anyone in this country can initiate criminal proceedings. To take advantage of the opportunity, since the minister is here, Madam Minister, your service, the tax administration is from your ministry, number 135 pages 55 since 2004, the "officer official" has prescribed that fiscalization in due time, remember that. It says, the obligations of St. 1st and 2nd of this member do not apply to the agricultural producer... (President: Time. I'm sorry, let me just finish... and the owner of an independent craft shop which sells agricultural products, i.e. their own products of crafts and domestic work, on the drinking stands and similar facilities. A man who has a craft shop, makes pie barks, sells at the Kalenić market, has some kiosk, has no obligation under this law to issue fiscal bills. There's a tax office coming in, they're closing his shop twice already. Please, I'll give you these papers, look at what's going on, and regulate it, and that's what a man lives on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10318	Anyone else want to go by the amendment? Member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10319	Ladies and gentlemen, this member of the bill is talking about the amount of fine the supplier will have to pay if he cheats on the procurement officer. In particular, if the documentation submitted in a public tender indicates incorrect data. The proposer, the government of the Republic of Serbia, proposes that the fine be in the range of between 25,000 and 50,000 dinars, and I propose with my amendment that the fine be doubled. If the purpose of criminal policy is to prevent treatment from being avoided, treatment is always more expensive and often and unsuccessful, it is my opinion that this punishment should be increased to an amount ranging from 50 to 100,000 dinars. According to the Public Procurement Authority of Serbia, there were about 12,000 public procurement providers in Serbia last year. However, only two thousand, one sixth, fulfilled their legal obligation and submitted a report on public procurement at the end of the calendar year and on the funds they spent on these public procurements. According to these reports, the two thousand public procurement providers have singled out a little over two and a half billion euros for this purpose. There are no data for these other 10,000 customers, because they deliver reports occasionally or don't deliver them at all. Some realistic estimates suggest that they spend about a billion and a half euros annually for this purpose. This means spending about four billion euros on public procurement in Serbia annually. The estimates made by EU countries, which have more experience in this area, show that around 20% of the funds allocated to public procurement go to corruption, means bribery and commission payment. In an interview that he gave several days ago to a daily list, the director of the Public Procurement Administration of the Republic of Serbia argues that around the percentage is present when it comes to public procurement in Serbia. What does that mean exactly? This means that out of these four billion spent on public procurement, 800m euros illegally ends up in private pockets as a means of bribery and corruption. These figures look even bigger when it comes to the fact that 60% of these funds were spent by public enterprises, meaning from the state budget, from the pockets of Serbian citizens. People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, just remind me of the fact that this year's budget deficit for the Republic of Serbia is around 500m euros. The funds stolen on public procurement are 300m euros higher than Serbia's budget deficit. Just these days my predecessors were talking about a classic case of public procurement abuse, and probably corruption. It is about the purchase of furniture for five homes of health and clinic centres in Belgrade, which have paid several million euros for this purpose. The furniture was paid at a much higher price than the market, with one argument, that they paid so much because it was an emergency purchase. Turns out it was much more important for patients who waited months for scans and magnetic resonances in waiting rooms to have benches to sit on, paid for 200 thousand dinars. We have an even more drastic example in a distant past. You remember, and I think it was three or four years ago, the Dossier regime paid over $100 million for the purchase of equipment for making new IDs, passports and ID cards. It was done by Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, the equipment was obtained from the US Motorola, and the most important thing in all this is that the equipment was obtained without a public tender, by direct contract. I've talked about this case once, and I'll do it again. So, when these types of jobs are concluded in the West, it is roughly understood that a commission is given up to 10%, however, when it comes to business that is concluded without a public tender, then the commission goes up to 15%, which means that someone on this job could have earned about 15m euros. Also, we had in recent times an affair with Davinic, then an affair about the purchase of vaccines for flus that were unusable, so they had to be destroyed. Public and rude overpayment of certain goods or certain transactions in the field of public works is not the most dangerous form of public procurement corruption. Now I'm going to talk about a few more types of corruption in public procurement. The corruption of tender jobs often leads to weaker bidders, bidders who do not know how to do quality work, which is why this job has to be done again or the goods that have been purchased, which has to be repurchased. This happens most often in the construction of road infrastructure, while paved roads. Also, I'm turning the public's attention to this case with the procurement of uniforms for the police. Information means mentioning the amount of 8m euros in money from the budget, which was spent on obtaining uniforms that practically lack the necessary quality and should be re-procured. Another case of corruption is law enforcement through direct guessing. Therefore, in the world, it is practice to avoid procurement as far as possible through direct guessing and to choose suppliers through public competition. Practice shows that this saves more than 10% of the funds on average. In Serbia, however, more than 30% of purchases are still obtained by direct contract. So, out of the four billion spent for this purpose, about a billion and 300 million are spent on tenders, spent on direct contracts. If we accept this rule that this job can save up to 10%, we get to the 130m-euro figure. Often, goods are purchased through public procurement that are not necessary for the customer at all or are not at the top of the priority. This particular case that we have in our homes is a healthy and clinical hospital center, a school example of such abuse. It is not disputed that all healthcare institutions need to have as much furniture as possible, but it is a priority to get appliances for the necessary medical examinations, to provide medications, to provide a professional medical staff, and only when all this is done afterwards to access the purchase of furniture and other minor items. Also one of the forms of crime is the payment of ordered goods at a much higher price than real. Here we have heard that a seat bench, set up in the waiting room of one of these health homes, has been paid 200,000 dinars, an umbrella-holder paid 13,000 dinars, a coffee kitchen paid for 750,000 dinars. A colleague Avramovic here said that her real price, I think, is about 75,000 dinars. In total, only the Bezanian Hair Clinical and Hospital Center spent 106 million dinars. This has already been about the abuse of public procurement in the purchase of inventory at Nikola Tesla Airport, in the Serbian Railways, so I'm going to skip it. It is often practiced to plan purchases that do not meet the needs of the client, but are generally much more extensive. One plastic example: a public company needs 10 cars, the company's management buys 15 cars, with an agreement with the client to leave one or two cars on the commission's behalf. We recently had one case that a neighbouring country, without any need, had bought us 130 tanks at the end of the government's mandate without any prior analysis. Turns out she bought old iron. One example of abuse is the indication of certain specific conditions when tendering. Practically, the tender lacks a little so that the exact brand of the goods to be sought is specified and the name of the supplier is not indicated, the name of the manufacturer. It's about like when you read a contest in the paper, so says we're looking for a commercial director with a 13-year job experience, that he spent seven years in executive jobs, that he's been a commercial director for three years, etc. And then when you read it all, imagine that there's still still no photo of that man. We specifically had a case here in the Republic of Serbia that Serbian Railways had acquired locomotives in the tender, where they literally drew what type of locomotive they needed and from which manufacturer. What is also important and what enables these abuses is the fact that criminal policy in the Republic of Serbia is very mild in this area. One of my predecessors said that last year only 28 punishments were imposed on responsible persons, of which 13 fines were up to 5,000 dinars, and 12 fines to 10,000 dinars. The same offences were punished by 27 legal entities, and for them 17 fines were more than symbolic, only 10,000 dinars. Now make a parallel. Four billion euros have been spent on public procurement, estimated to have ended up as bribes and commissions, and the penalty for the theft of 800m euros is less than 7,000 euros. The most common form of abuse and violation of the law in the area of public procurement is disrespect for signed contracts. Coli Stavanovic spoke here yesterday about a case where after a public tender a contract was signed on the construction of some construction facilities at the cost of 150 million dinars, to eventually prove that more than 500 million dinars were paid for the same works. We have a case of this Ustasha Business Center. When the process of the facility began, the tender indicated that the bidder was to build a building that would be a business center, which would be an area of 20,000 square meters, so it was then raised to 70,000 square meters, so that there would now be an object about 170,000 square meters. Of course, all of this would not be possible if the state authorities were to check the abuses in the area of public procurement. However, the fact that around 5/6 contracting authorities do not provide competent state authorities with public procurement reports without competent authorities verifying the amount of funds spent and the way the funds are spent, tell them all about the potential for abuses. Maybe it's not weird because we've been living in a country where the government hasn't submitted a final bill in five or six years, and no final budget bill is adopted. In the end, I'm just going to give an example of Slovenia, and one of my predecessors was talking about it. There is a commission that investigates all these irregularities, when the commission finds irregularities, it informs the competent state body, the competent ministry, they act immediately, correcting the irregularity. There are even cases that act on the Commission's findings even if the commission is wrong because the ministers are afraid of public reaction, they fear that the public will get the impression that they are spending their money in an irrational way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10320	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MPs Đura Muchenski and Pavel Marchok submitted to Article 128 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milan J. Nikolic, in writing, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 128. It's a bill of law. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, are the representatives of the motionor, or does the Minister want a word? Here you go, Madam Minister. The word has a minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10321	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this debate over this law was expected because this is a very important law. The public sector at all its levels, plus public enterprises, state-owned institutions and agencies, spend an average of 15 to 17% of the social product or 350 to 400 billion dinars on buying different goods and services. I remind you that the first law to regulate this area was passed in 2002. Before that, there was no law. It's certain that when you have the law and you don't have the law, it favours the system in which you have the law. Also, the amendments to this law were in 2004 and the essence of the change was to give priority to domestic bidders. This law, which is before you, is definitely better than the current law. But even with this, as with the other laws, the key is to be applied and it's undeniable. So I'm sure and I know that there are the same laws in different countries and these same laws, as a result, really give a different level of corruption. Why did we want to change this law? First of all, you can only see the shortcomings in law enforcement. So, problems have been identified in law enforcement. So, problems have been identified in law enforcement. In many parts, the law was imprecise. There was a huge administration, which means that a lot of time was needed, complex procedures, public procurement procedures, although some do not like to hear it, was not transparent enough or airy enough, there was no regulated question of suspending the procurement process, the purchases of financial services were not precisely defined. Also, they were not clear provisions relating to technical standards. Physical and legal persons don't have the same treatment. Contractors are not protected from unconscious bidders, preferences, or advantages given to domestic bidders should comply with the Free Trade Agreement. Small value acquisitions are not uniquely arranged, etc. The new law has removed these shortcomings. This must be a better law for the economy, for the citizens and for the public sector in general. It is certain that every new law reduces the costs of public procurement. So, like I said, the worst thing is when you don't have the law. The fact is, on average, it is believed that up to 20-30% of public procurement can be linked to systemic corruption. But any new law, which practically reduces the shortcomings or eliminates the shortcomings of the previous one, practically reduces these expenditures by five percentage points. I'm sorry if the way we discussed the amendments confused you. But we were responding in order of winning, which was better for you technically, because if the amendment was technically incorrect, you could react quickly. Perhaps the best solution would be to have two practical ways of presenting our answers: one in a row, the other in agreement by members. We'll try to do that in the future. I thank you all for the very useful amendments. They have improved this law. To remind you that you have given 67 amendments to this law, three have been given by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance, three have been withdrawn, of which 24 amendments have been adopted. So one-third. Thank you for improving this law. Please really support this law. I would take this opportunity to answer some of the most frequently asked questions. The first question - budget inspection and Belgrade Airport. I personally thought that budgetary inspection should not be sent to just one public enterprise, but to a greater number. I signed a budget inspection at the same time to several public enterprises. One of them is the airport. The budget inspection went away on December 2nd, it's been two weeks, and it takes another two weeks. They're there. I just have to tell you that there are 12 budgetary inspectors, and public enterprises are usually big. The fact is that the budget inspection at the Public Enterprise was practically focused on the company's profit policy, which means she won't need that number of days, but definitely they'll be there for another two weeks and after that two weeks we'll have a record or report, either way, budget inspectors. As for the amendments to Parliament's budget rebalance Markicevic, related to 12 million dinars for sports grounds for people with disabilities, I can say that there was and there was a will, and the money was reserved. What's most important is he's willing, he's got the means, but he needs to respect the procedure. So I received a report that none of the Ministry of Sports, and I remember well how it was, since I was present the whole time we adopted the rebalancing, so the budget reserve was reduced by 12 million dinars and these funds were transferred to the Ministry of Sports and Youth. I received today a report from the Department of Sports and Youth that no one formally requested these funds. So the sooner they ask, the sooner they'll get it. They have to ask, and not only that, they have to submit technical documentation, and it's not new. I'd like to release this gathering of my presence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-12-0.u10322	I thank Mrs. Minister. I thank you all for your very good participation in the work. I have to say something, which may not be very pleasant, we've really done a lot today, but you know we're facing extremely significant laws that require time, and we're limited by the end of this calendar year. Maybe it wouldn't be convenient to wait for New Year's Eve in this room. That's why I have a very specific proposal, before I close today's work, to work from 10:00 to 4:00 tomorrow, to have a week off, and to continue our work Monday. Indeed, we have extremely significant laws, and one particularly important for the citizens of Serbia -- the budget, and the other for the opposition -- trust in the government. Excuse me, I didn't close the search. I just took the opportunity, with the thanks of the minister and all of you, to inform you how we're going to work tomorrow. Otherwise, I conclude a review of the draft law on public procurement in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thanks again. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 123 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for today's session to be attended by Mr. SlobodanIlic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Živana Bogutincevic, adviser to the finance minister. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Security of Deposits (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliaments: Vlajko Senić, Milorad Buha, Vjerica Radeta, Dejan Mirović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Zoran Krasic, Sreto Perić, Igor Bečić, Zoran Antić and Arsen Đurić. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
