ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I sincerely hope that the Government has understood the warning of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, more or less of all parliamentary groups, and that this is not an attempt to avoid something that has to be done, which is – the request of the MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to replace Bojan Kristo from the position of the director of the "Aerodrom", to send a budgetary inspection and to the MUP to send UBPOK, to determine all the facts presented in this House. What the papers say, whether Bojan Kristo resigned or not, we're not going in. We want black on white, that's one thing. The other thing is, as we have information, Bojan Kristo has fled the country! He flew to Dusseldorf yesterday, and that's what he's saying about everything we've been saying – he says the government has to react urgently. That's why we insisted on sending a budget inspection, UBPOK, because we're sure these malversions are so great they're going to try everything to cover up information about their thefts, which they did not just at Nicole Tesla Airport, but also "Lutria" in such a perfidious way. I hope you get a chance to get information – how did "weeks" set up at the lottery and who got it, who shared with whom, how did Bojan Kristo manage to secure himself for a short time? I count that, first of all, the ruling coalition is in the interest of dealing with corruption and crime, if you're capable of it. In any case, we would not want to participate in an accounting within the ruling coalition, between the two parties. Because already today, we were able to see from the newspapers how the indictment has already begun with regard to some other public enterprises, etc. As far as the SRS is concerned, we want a full investigation into all public enterprises, in all agencies and in all companies that are on the budget, because this is the only way to reduce corruption as much as possible, to reduce crime. This would be the first step. So I warn the government that during the day, we will now begin work, send a letter informing us what they have done and what they intend to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8149	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ljubisa Petkovic first, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8150	In accordance with Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to introduce you to a very important fact. I hope that DS members and president, Mr Tadic, followed the trial of Mr Vojislav Seselj last night, on which the fact was definitely proven – that Mr Zoran Djindjic participated in the Satanisation of the SRS and that Mr. Former Prime Minister, excuse me, the prime minister of 2000, directly participated in writing the indictment of Mr. Vojislav Seselj. Today there is no longer any dilemma that the transcript that came out of Mrs. Carla del Ponte's book is credible and accurate. We had a chance last night to hear an honest and honest citizen who definitely confirmed it last night. I hope and expect the President of the Republic to be fenced from the policies of Mr Zoran Djindjic, who led at the time, to apologize to the SRS and the family of Mr Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8151	We have an agreement to give priority to the heads of Parliament. Mrs. Hope Kolundji, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8152	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Articles 101, 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure. Of course, what someone is saying somewhere, at some trial, no one has the right to present this speaker as facts and as facts and to abuse them by accusing a man who, the only thing he can be responsible for, wanted to deal with anyone who committed war crimes, anywhere and in any name. What is undeniable is the fact that war crimes have been committed. [[Applause]] The same witness I was watching last night was proving that the SRS was building headquarters, where she was sending people to certain areas. He testified as a good knower of those facts. Therefore, if there is a role here for Mr Djindjic, it is in the intention and willingness to deal equally with every crime. [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8153	Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundzija, you either did not understand Alexander Stefanovic's testimony or you are knowingly avoiding facts. Mr. Stefanovic did not speak at all about the wish of Zoran Djindjic to deal with war criminals and those who committed war crimes. Zoran Djindjic asked Aleksandar Stefanovic, along with Karl del Ponte, to discredit Vojislav Seselj as a political opponent of DS and Zoran Djindjic. Among other things, Mrs. Kolundjia, that's what Carla del Ponte writes in her book. It just says that Zoran Djindjic said, "Take him away and don't bring him back again! "Well, please don't talk about the war crimes of Vojislav Seselj.- I'm sorry. It's been over 40 and a few witnesses, an expert, and not a single one, except a lie, he couldn't say anything about Vojislav Seselj. What's particularly interesting, Mrs. Kolundjia, you say – what someone said, there, somewhere. Are you disowning the UN tribunal? Is the Hague tribunal a place for you? You've legalized him. For you, he is "the first hole in the playing", because everything the EU asks you to meet is the UN tribunal in the first place. How come it doesn't suit you now? How come it's "someplace" and "someone there" said it now? That witness is a witness to The Hague prosecutor's office. The man said what he had to say. As for the military headquarters, Mrs. Kolundzija, at first it was a crisis headquarters to help refugees who were in front of Ustasha terror again, as in 1941, had to flee to Serbia. The SRS did what it had to do, do everything to help people who had to flee to Serbia. Later, the crisis headquarters grew into a military headquarters because many, including your party, have done everything to weaken the struggle of the JNA then to prevent secessionism in the SFRY. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8155	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic, so Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8156	I'm reporting, Madam President, under Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, because Mrs Nada Kolundzija, president of the MEP's Group for European Serbia, injured the Rules of Procedure, because she threw it out of the bench while the head of our parliamentary group, Mr Todorovic, spoke. Since I have the opportunity to monitor on the RTS transmission, I hear and see what Mrs. Kolundžija says, and you, as Mr. Todorovic spoke about 2000 and 2001, were then smaller than the macaque grain. Mrs. Kolundjia, 176 MPs, so-called The DOS, from a conglomerate of 18 carefully composed states by the U.S. State Department, Clinton, and Madeleine Albright, as you received so much money to tear down the regime at the time, entered this assembly. You were sitting like, let's hope of Kolundzija, Covic's literary writer, in the fifth or sixth row, sometimes you come, sometimes you don't come, and you were a crumb and a little bit in that number of 176. Unlike you, who are the former MP of the DOS, and now with the same hate policy against Serbian heroes, according to everything that is Serbian, according to the Serbian people who fought west of Drina and Danube, because it is obvious that you are ashamed of the tens of thousands of victims, Mr. Aleksandar Stefanovic was with you in the 176s, but he is an honest and honest man, an honest Serb, who was strong enough to face all the troubles that Zoran Djindjic and the regime gave him, in a situation where his son was badly ill, to oppose yesterday and to tell the truth. And the truth is, you were disturbed by Dr. Vojislav Seselj. It bothered you with his million and 30,000 votes just a year after the election. It bothered you that it started in 2001 from one press conference to another, from this pay phone, first your former boss, the Nebojsa Covic mob poodle, to call for crime, crime and government. It bothered you with the SRS, such as Boris Tadic and you, Manter and Wardsworth, disrupting the power of the SRS led by Dr Vojislav Seselj of The Hague, so you instrumentsized those you bought for the hands of dollars or for much more money, the time will show they're going to start with a coup on the SRS. I am now telling you, November 26th -- it won't be half a year, God will give, and what happens there, and Dr Vojislav Seselj will enter that door. Not that you'll be in a mouse hole, but you won't know your name! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8157	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8158	I'd like to tell you what I concluded last night, based on the rules of the Rules of Procedure, by watching the trial broadcast in The Hague. (SRS emissaries banging on benches during speech. ) First of all, it is obvious that DOS, and probably Zoran Djindjic, is involved in the arrest and take of Vojislav Seselj to The Hague. It is obvious that Aleksandar Stefanovic does not deserve to be called an honorable man, since everything the prosecutor read to him, he said about Vojislav Seselj, not only him, but also some who are here in the hall. Obviously, there was remorse after a bottle of wine. I say, everyone has the right to repent and it's a good thing that he turned his testimony into a farce, it's good for Vojislav Seselj, but such a Serb should not be glorified. It's a Serb who was a traitor when he needed it, who became a patriot when he needed it. We need people who are constantly patriots for the rest of our lives. So obviously that the state of Serbia needs it directly, there is no minister, I am sorry, to intervene in this trial, to ask for the final establishment of the truth, especially of witnesses who once testified against Vojislav Seselj, and today they have experienced catharsis and are banging on parliamentary benches. I don't appreciate people like that. Whenever you say Vojislav Seselj is a war criminal, no one can wash it for you anymore. And I ask the MPs, when all this is over, to pay full attention to the economic and financial crisis in which the country is located and which is preparing to fall completely upon us. Please, in order to know whether there will be wages and pensions, to start doing what we do, you from the ruling majority, to request, urgently, your signatures, a session of the National Assembly to which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to which the Prime Minister will come, to introduce us to the measures that you hold secret or do not have at all, and with which Serbia could get out of the crisis. To tell us in time now – why G17 plus is spending all the foreign reserves we have, why don't you close the borders for foreign goods, why the internal debt has already reached the outside... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Why did they stop paying in internal payments, why are banks being saved, not citizens, not businesses? I have a lot of questions you need to answer right now, otherwise this will all fall apart like a map tower, dear fellow Members of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8159	Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8160	Interestingly, respected fellow MPs, when we started here a topic that deserves attention, which is corruption that eats up our society, and when many MPs, even from the parliamentary majority, realize that there is enough evidence that something is finally being done against it, Tomislav Nikolic, who is offering to the Serbian government, is turning the debate in another direction – come on, now, let's talk about something else, because corruption is something that has already been overcome and that's the subject of the SRS. Think about it. Is he an opposition or is he someone who can't wait for G17 to come out of power without him flying in? There is another very important question that needs to be discussed here today, based on what Mrs. Kolundjia said, do you intend to arrange here, perhaps, for this pay phone or in this assembly hall, some trial of Vojislav Seselj?- I'm sorry. It was in history. It's not impossible for something like that to happen. But you must also have concrete evidence. Please at least be informed as politicians, nor does the UN tribunal burden Vojislav Seselj with any war crimes! He's being tried solely for his political speeches, both today and little children know it, and you don't know it. Why? Because you're scared, because you're afraid of him and you're afraid of your responsibility. After six years, as long as the man is there, you are still able to place a burden on him that does not exist and you will not face the truth that Zoran Djindjic was involved in writing the indictment. I would like to draw your attention to another coincidence, although I no longer believe in coincidences, because there are no coincidences, does it seem to you that yesterday the same witness, Alexander Stefanovic, asked the prosecution the question – 'Did Vojislav Seselj, 1994, threaten you with death? He said, of course, "No!" From some services, probably DB, such news came, but these days in the paper you can read only so far, statements by Tomislav Nikolic, that Vojislav Seselj is capable of organising the murder of Tomislav Nikolic, and today you can read that Alexander Vukic is also a man who feels threatened because he fears that Vojislav Seselj can organize his murder or his family. Isn't that coordinated with The Hague tribunal? Did it have anything to do with what Tomislav and Vucic are doing with what the UN tribunal is doing?- I'm sorry. (President: Time. I'll tell you what. Imagine yourself a little over that. They're the same bosses, they pay them, they have the same assignment. The truth is slow, but accessible. One day, believe me, I don't know what will happen after the next election, the citizens will judge us, perhaps indeed, and condemnation and punishment for keeping'snake in trouble' like this, but it was in 2000. There were 23 of us, so we acted... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... In 2003, the government fell. Everything will come back on its own, but this poor country is going down, and this people are going down.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8161	Tomislav Nikolic, first of all, then Mrs Radeta, then Mr Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8162	I have to tell you what that looked like yesterday. The prosecution did not ask Aleksandar Stefanovic if Vojislav Seselj threatened you with death – but read the statement by Aleksandar Stefanovic, signed, that Vojislav Seselj threatened him with death. You can talk whatever you want, I won't talk about it anymore. I, for now, seem to have provided well myself, and materially, of course, I guess a man lives to provide himself materially. With regard to negligents, you only let one thing out of your sight – why do the citizens of Serbia vote for these gourds, which you have been growing in the mud? If we really are "gooje," why are they throwing you away and voting for "gooja"? Is the situation turned around? After 2000, we got away with it, and after 2003, we got away with it. After 2008, there's no one to get you out.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8163	Mrs. Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in that first announcement, Mr Nikolic could hear something very dangerous about the status of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. When the SRS spoke of last night's testimony, which I see you all watching and we believe that most citizens in Serbia were following, I think 50th in a row, witnesses to the Hague prosecutor's office, he, in a kind of way, humiliated the prosecution so much, that it was funny to watch from this side of the screen. It is true that last night's witness, as well as another number of witnesses, has given some statements in good works that do not correspond to what is now presented as their statements, and we who are working on the defence team of Vojislav Seselj, are well aware of it, and the Serbian public knows that, because we have informed many scientific gatherings about it, many of the book Vojislav Seselj published on the subject, where these people pleaded, under which conditions they gave certain statements, under duress, under threat, with the offer of bribes etc. The most common threats were by pressing charges. What Aleksandar Stefanovic said last night, and it is about Zoran Djindjic's intention to remove Vojislav Seselj from the political scene, already the sparrows on the branch know, only Stefanovic confirmed it as a witness. But what is dangerous, in that first statement, is an invitation to Serbia's competent authorities to examine the credibility of Aleksandar Stefanovic's testimony and some other people who made timely statements to the prosecution. Does he not say so, and it seems that, yes, the gentleman still wants to head Vojislav Seselj and now to force some competent authorities in the state of Serbia, that these competent authorities are assessing what statements these witnesses have been credible, whether those they have given under duress or those which are now completely free before the UN Attorney General's Council. This is what should be a message to the citizens of Serbia – I am, like, protecting Vojislav Seselj, so even last night, I watched the trial broadcast. Citizens of Serbia, don't be fooled! After all, everyone following the trial knows how many of these 50 witnesses Vojislav Seselj caught in a lie. How many witnesses, both Muslims and Croats, admitted before the UN Council of Prosecutors that some of the statements, which they allegedly had never signed, had never read those statements, as did Aleksandar Stefanovic and other witnesses, that they had received statements in English, that they had signed them in an unseen manner, that they had never received copies of these statements, that they had never received videos when making those statements, etc. All these irregularities of the UN tribunal are much known in Serbia, we will do our utmost to know more, and we will make Vojislav Seselj successfully defend himself, as he has so far successfully defended himself. And, very quickly, fortunately for most in Serbia and unfortunately for one small number, return to Serbia, alive and well and free.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8165	Mr. Jadranko Vukovic, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, concerning the Ministry, and I am pleased to have Mrs Malovic, Minister of Justice here. Yesterday, a criminal, Alexander Vukic, in his "Justice" accused me and my son, me of being a drug dealer, and the son of a junkie. In the "Justice" of Aleksandar Vukic, funded by Gilas and DS, I know of one payment of 500,000 euros, please check it out, called Miss Jadranka from Boris Tadic's cabinet, ask her. Here is an example of how the press is abused for political purposes, namely how freedom of public information is abused in order to discredit myself as a member of the SRS and an MP of this assembly. Alexander Vukic and this poor man, a criminal, Vujisic, took the risk of bringing lies to me and my family, to my son. It says here that I'm connected to the Zemun drug dealers and that my son is a drug addict. In front of the public and before you, I claim that everything is fabricated and that everything is false. I had to act like this because I defend my honor and honor and my family's reputation. Of course, in addition to my appearance in front of you, I will use the right to seek compensation for damages under the Law on Public Information in the case and to initiate criminal proceedings to determine the criminal responsibility of the author and other responsible persons. However, it is not a problem because it will go according to the law, the question of the rules of political struggle is raised when the measure is overrun in all of this – is everything allowed in political struggle? If any of these are true in the papers, I will no longer be involved in politics, but, if not, I call this Zumbul, Tomislav Nikolic, let him retire. If not, come out, here, Tomislav Nikolic and tell me if this isn't true, you won't be involved in politics! (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: "Just don't "kindap" me. I'm afraid for you that someone's gonna steal you, and I'm sorry, I'm really scared, so you're gonna think it's me. You're so small, I'm not gonna deal with you. If not, I call on the authors and their employers to make a public promise that they will no longer be involved in politics. Now, show me, Mr. Nikolic, what a moral man you are! You announced yesterday, you'll see what happens! (President: Would you like to bring the end, Mr. Vukovic? ) Let me just finish – Mr. Nikolic, if what the criminal Vukic published is true, prove it, I'm coming out here, I'm pulling out of politics! If it's not true, and you, if you're a moral man, say you'll do it! And that's where we're done! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8167	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8168	I don't know what I'd stop doing politics if it turns out you're a criminal. But about that political struggle that crosses the borders, Mr. Vukovic, this is where you called the criminal vice president of the SNS. Aren't you a little out of line in that political struggle? Yesterday, you accused Mr. Vukic and Dejan Vujisic of "kindaping" Bibic Dragan. Now I have two official notes. One was taken by citizens of Dejan Vujic in the MUP, and another by the citizens of Bibic Dragana. Bibic Dragana says this way: "I would like to state on this occasion that Dejan Vujisic has never been threatened in any way. Me and Dejan Vujic are party colleagues, SNS, and we have a fair and fair relationship. This is all I have to say. ''Citizen Dejan Vujisic says: ''I explicitly deny that yesterday, 24.11. at 18 hours and 53 minutes I called on Branko Bibić's phone. I don't know him, nor have I ever seen him. At the time, I was at a friend's party. Otherwise, Mr. Bibić's daughter is my party colleague and member of the SNS, as am I. In my knowledge, everything came from Jadranka Vukovic, an SRS MP, who said at the assembly speaker that I had threatened Bibic's daughter. That's not true either, because Dragana and I are in very good collegiate relations. That the Bibic family is scared and that Dragana does not leave the house is true, but as far as I know, members of the SRS are threatening her. '"It's true about that alarming reporting of yours that you have information that something terrible and difficult has happened. So whenever you complain about a serious insult or something that's bad for you, for your family, think about what you're doing with your statements to other families. What are you causing in the family of Aleksandar Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic, Vujisic? If that's your goal, we've been totally Googled for the past 18 years, starting since Milosevic. You won't be able to hurt us much. As for Aleksandar Stefanovic, he made a statement at the time he was in power. No one threatened him. He wasn't scared of anything. He went from the SRS to Biljana Plasic, and then to Dodik, and to Batic. I hear there's some factories in the Great Plan. Check out a little why he testified against Vojislav Seselj, when it is known to have been severe immorality, today many are washing their cheeks and telling the truth about Vojislav Seselj. But what they said, what they signed, that only speaks ill of them. I didn't call the Serbian government to check out who was lying, but to get involved in the dispute and defend Vojislav Seselj, who is innocent in The Hague. (President: Will you bring the end? I apologize for causing you this inflammation of the muscles on your left or right hand, especially for the doctors you need to operate afterwards, you need to keep your hands still, but I'm going to cause you these pains still. All the time, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8169	The word is Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8170	What makes you, Mr. Nikolic, that you hate so much the man who gave you everything in life? Why do you hate Vojislav Seselj so much? What complex are you pulling?- I'm sorry. What's that disease, hate?- I'm sorry. That shouldn't be the mark of someone planning to be a serious politician. You, of course, can't be anymore, you used to be able to when you had these people behind you, but you can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8171	Excuse me, was that a replica, Mrs. Pop-Lazic?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8172	Yes, I would also like to ask Mr. Tadic, I think he's very interested in what I'm about to say. Is it true that six months ago, when he was with him about the party law, political parties, Tomislav Nikolic and asked him to go back to the country, since it is evident that Vojislav Seselj will have to return to the country, because there is no reason why The Hague tribunal should condemn him, prohibit political activity? Why do you fear so many encounters with Vojislav Seselj on a political scene and debate with us and with him through newspapers, you say: 'I can't wait for him to come back, to cross our political stances. 'You're scared, Mr. Nikolic. I'm sure you're scared, but you're afraid of yourself because you lost your identity. It's not easy to move overnight into another role. That's what actors can do, they can cure themselves, you can't. I think that, that fear of yours, is the only reason you're making these statements in the papers, both you and Alexander Vukic. Here, and now, behind this pay phone, you don't have to go to The Hague tribunal, you don't have to go to The Hague tribunal's office, you don't need a video link, you don't need a The Hague tribunal to monitor what's going on here and here for this pay phone and what's written in the paper. You, at the moment, testify against Vojislav Seselj and that is the dirtiest thing you could do!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8173	The word has the People's MP Dusan Maric, then Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to discredit SRS and Aleksandar Stefanovic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic here said that Aleksandar Stefanovic, among other things, owns some factories in the Great Plan. Responsibly, under full moral and material responsibility, I claim that Aleksandar Stefanovic, who, in his possession in the Great Plan, has no factory, no facility, absolutely. In the Great Plan, there is no real estate or anything else owned by the mentioned Alexander Stefanovic. What's true of all the things that come out here, Tomislav Nikolic, I really don't know. So, it's about things I don't recognize, but if I have to make conclusions based on this claim about Alexander Stefanovic, then I don't think any comment is necessary. It's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8175	Thank you. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. In 225 and 226, and I request information from the Ministry of the Interior and the Attorney General, let's see how and who threatened, in this case it is two persons, one is Dragana Bibic, the other is Branko Bibic. Threats came ten days ago. Dragana Bibic is concerned with several threats to the mobile phone, with Branko Bibic, there is a threat addressed on the phone. Branko Bibic now told me everything Tomislav Nikolic said was a lie. Dragana Bibic was abducted by a man, taken to the SUP. She responsibly claims her father is not a member of any other party but the SRS. She paid membership fees on Saturday (November 22nd) this year, and was present on Monday (November 24th) at the Youth and Sports Commission GO Belgrade. We need to open up the issue of Serbia's'snaderization' here. Namely, Mr. Alexander "Sanader" Vukic said in a statement to the Croatian weekly Globus, that he would perform "sanaderisation" of Serbia and began to praise the Croatian model. It's right now in the "sanaderization" part, and this is a Croatian model, it starts with threats, blackmail, kidnapping, and then ends with murders. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia must do everything possible to expose this and inform the public of who is threatening and to take all the measures envisaged by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8177	We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT (specificity) To Article 44 of the amendment, with correction, together were submitted by the MPs Milica Radović and Miroslav Petkovic. On this amendment, Ms. Milica Radovic has already spoken, Mr. Todorovic also. Anyone else want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8178	I don't know, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, why do you act like you don't see me raise my hand with the Rules of Procedure? I don't know why, at a time when the MPs are intruding the work of the National Assembly, they're chatting with the Vice President of the Assembly, pretend you don't see it. I only have one sentence to add to the predecessor's presentation. Last night I heard in Alexander Stefanovic's testimony that he has a factory in the Great Plan. Look at the testimony transcript, I didn't know that. You can't say he doesn't when he says he has a job to do last night.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8179	Mr. Nikolic, each individual's skill is fragile as a peacemaker between you and your former party comrades. Mr. Nikolic, wait, according to the Rules of Procedure, first he has the word Mr. Sreto Peric, then Mr. Buha, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, this is where the matter has clearly become clear. It is quite certain when SRS MPs want to expose crime, corruption and everything that has become natural in this government that Mr Tomislav Nikolic has another intention. And what is Mr Tomislav Nikolic's intention? His intention is to protect the government, and he does it better and more successfully than Mrs. Hope Kolundji and all MPs of the congregation's majority do. How and how does he do it? Well, by making a conflicting statement. He has no reason and no citizen in Serbia has reason to fear Mr Vojislav Seselj, but some do. Who's got it? Those who do not love their country, those who want to rob or some similar way to reach enormous wealth, and otherwise, no other citizen, and if he is not a member of any political party or belongs to any political party, should be afraid of it. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, neither you nor Alexander Vukic have any reason to be afraid. But as you attack honest people, and you say, whoever made a statement against Vojislav Seselj, he is a bad man, and I accept not any statement, but that statement that he calls himself a war criminal, in that I agree with you. However, you make statements at a time when he cannot answer you in any way, and many of you are in charge, because you are projecting, allegedly, that he threatens you and Mr. Vukic to liquidate. You know that's not possible and none of us are ready. We want in a political way to fight you and raise this country, to improve the standard for citizens, which is our goal. I'm just recommending, don't be afraid of Mr. Vojislav Seselj, you're afraid of God.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8181	Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8182	I'm not happy with your answer, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. You can't be a peacemaker by not giving me your word. As long as there is a chance that anyone in this congregation will get the word I will look for her and you will be obliged to give me the word. So it's not up to you to cut and say – well, now Tomislav Nikolic doesn't have to answer what the radicals tell him, now we're going to the agenda. If you are unable to move to the agenda, interrupt the session. For me and the citizens of Serbia, this session is of no interest to me at all. I'm interested in a session where we'll find out if there's any hope, whether there's a Serbia's recovery, whether there'll be wages and pensions, whether the prices will continue to rage? Will Governor Jelasic spend all his foreign reserves, get on a plane and go where he came from? So there are far more important topics than those on the agenda. I'm sorry, Madam Minister, but that's the way it is. There are more important topics than this SRS bickering with Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandra Vukic. Just one thing please, fight as you fought yesterday. Yesterday was good. You fell today. You're focusing on me again today. You don't stand a chance in that fight. You stand a chance in a clash with the government, and in a clash against the Serbian Progressive Party you are already in advance sentenced to failure. (SRS emissaries banging on benches all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8183	Mr. Buha, then Mr. Yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8184	Ladies and gentlemen, again. 225 and 226. I am looking again for information from the MUP on what it has done, given that we have also received information in this home that the threats followed by Branko Bibić. I am obliged to meet the public that Branko Bibic is the secretary of Republika Srpska's government in persecution. He escaped from Drnish. All of what he is experiencing in Serbia today, he experienced in the 1990s in Drnis. It's about a refugee, an exile from the Republic of Croatia. He's having a very hard time getting what's going on today and asking me, as prime minister of this government, to take out and request the intervention of state authorities. The whole family's upset, scared. The open threats followed. After that, his daughter was kidnapped. A daughter doesn't go out for a few days, afraid she'll follow even worse things up, don't God, murder. Therefore, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia must urgently examine the case, leading all the way to the end. Let's see who's guilty of these events. Who's threatening? Who can threaten? There's something else with political threats. It's about the secretary of government. You know the conditions under which this government works. This country must be a guarantee of every citizen's safety, including refugees. You know what we've been through and now, after 15 years of that exodus, there's no way to go back and we still have to lose our lives here. Gentlemen of power, you know that very well. You know very well who is behind these threats and you must respond. There is no work of this congregation until the defendants of all these threats and unkind acts are brought before the court. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8185	National MP Mr. Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8186	Dear MPs, I'm reporting for an article. Rules 225 and 226. I am speaking to the public of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs because of the frequent attacks on the ideology of the SRS, conducted by its former leaders. Ideology of the SRS is expressed in its basic national idea of all-Serbian gathering and has been attacked by former "great Serbs" Nikolic and Vukic. Followers of the ideology of Serbian nationalism, formulated by Professor Seselj, they're called militarists, war-scrapers and other names. Former Radical Leader Tomislav Nikolic in 2008 turned Serbia's radical ideology to a cool-Serbian national direction. He publicly released his "Small Serbian" programme when he openly said in the media that the boundaries in the premises of the former SFRY are definitive, internationally recognised. Dealing with violently imposed borders and violently established illegal "trabant" states on the premises of historic Serbian countries. Nikolic, however, forgets the constant change in the geopolitical space of Southeast Europe, which has always depended on the relationship between the forces of the leading forces. Speaking of definitive Serbian borders at the same time, he is calming down with the definitive disappearance of Serbs from the space of historic Serbian countries. Even Croatian media were very surprised by Nikolic's deviation from the ideology of the united Serbian countries and the creation of a great Serbia. So Nikolic's "small Serbian" ideas oppose the basic ideology of the SRS, which, as is known, advocates the general Serbian programme of universal territorial and spiritual unification. Until the time comes to restore Republika Srpska, even as a "corpus of Separatum", a separate body of the Republic of Croatia, and a closer territorial integration of Serbian countries, Montenegro and Republika Srpska, the SRS will work and work on the ideological, spiritual and cultural integration of Serbian people scattered across the Balkans, Europe and the world. The struggle between SRS and Professor Seselj for the historical, national and state-of-the-art Serbian rights is a thorn in the eye of Western neoliberal democracies, their inquisitor, ideological-political court, and for these reasons seeks to destroy the SRS via Nikolic and Vojislav Seselj through an imposed lawyer. All of this should have affected supporters of the SRS, especially MPs and SRS committees, to turn to as large a number of Tomislav Nikolic, who was supposed to liquidate the SRS and, more importantly, the ideology of Serbian nationalism, through the emphasis on socio-economic problems, which exist and whose Serbian state is abundant. It should not be forgotten that since its establishment, the SRS has always highlighted socio-economic problems and has stood up for their resolution. She never forgot her national ideology of all-Serbian unity and all-Serbian gathering. The SRS, the only of all parties in Serbia, mentions the forgotten Republika Srpska Krajina, the forgotten Krajina people, the forgotten Predrin Serb victims, not only in Republika Srpska and Croatia, but also in BiH and KIM. (President: Time. I'm done. Although born in Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, while being the leader of the SRS did not forget the deaths of the province's people, did not share the Serbian people, as leaders of some so-called. democratic parties, the Serbians and the Transdrin Serbs or the duchy Serbs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8187	Please finish. You've been talking for four minutes. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8188	I'm sorry they dragged you into this, too. You know very well that you're not telling the truth. So, on what do I base Serbia's fight for KIM? Serbia is internationally recognised within the borders along with KIM. Do I, then, have the right to attack internationally recognised borders of other states? I don't. What else do you do for the Krajina Serbs except to mention them? When you come back, in any way, call me, I'll be with you. But from the MPs' benches of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to say that I don't care about the Krajina, and you worry about being an MP here, it really seems a little degutant. To apologize to one correct colleague, I did not say incorrect information, except it is not in the Great Plan but in Smederjevska Palanca, the company is called "Vocar", it was bought by Aleksandar Stefanovic, while buying "Veterinary Station" in Smederjevska Palanca. This is absolutely true, it's not a plan, but it's a Palanca, and it's a few miles away. During the speech, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8189	National MP Mr. Milisav Petronijevic first, then Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8190	Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I appeal to Article 103. Rules of Procedure. I call upon the National Assembly to return to the agenda. It is the right of the opposition to raise all important issues and drive them, but also the right of the ruling majority to at the same time propose the laws, measures needed, and, again, the opportunity for the opposition to question on all sides everything the ruling majority suggests. I'm afraid, Your Honor, that the Assembly is becoming a tribune, I'm afraid that we are not doing enough to preserve the dignity of the Assembly, I'm afraid that when we bring down the Assembly, as the highest legislative body, the only branch of government, the only place where both the position and the opposition are located, then we come to a situation that is very bad in Serbia. I'm afraid we're becoming hostages in the Assembly and those screw-ups that have been going on in public enterprises for years, and relations in parties. On the agenda in this regard, there are all issues other than those provided for in the agenda. I can say that I belong to the most tolerated majority so far, but at the same time I call on you, with all the rights to raise questions, give and the right of the ruling majority to implement their programme, which you can also question. We have a situation that we need to discuss mistrust with the government in a few days. It's been under discussion in the Assembly for months of not trusting the government, and all the time, and it's all good. But, people, give some measure, otherwise, the Assembly has turned us into a tribune, into a market, into anything that doesn't look like the Serbian Parliament. So I urge you to return to the agenda and, again, to take advantage of your right to question every move of government, every step, every solution, and there will certainly be more opportunities. I'm sorry, we're becoming hostages of everything that's not good, everything that's not good in one party or in a divided party, everything that's going on outside of the assembly, outside of what's inside, and, therefore, once again I'm calling you, there are a lot of questions that need to be raised, let's each of us do our jobs, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8191	Thank you. This is indeed a very constructive proposal for all of us and I ask that we respect all the arguments made by Mr Petronijevic. Anybody else want to go by the Rules of Procedure? Gordana Pop-Lazic first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8192	I would like to ask on behalf of the Serbian public who is watching us, to be absolutely clear to them, this new Sanader in Serbia when he's telling the truth? Is he like someone who supported and signed the Declaration of the Rights of Serbs in Republika Srpska under the protection of the UN, which was somewhere in 2006, you remember, and then you're here and how he attacked Micunovic because he didn't want to support that declaration, so let me ask you, when you were telling the truth, then or now? When did you remember that Titus's boundaries could and had grounds to be internationally recognized? When did you guys do that to the people?- I'm sorry. I honestly believed that what you're saying is real and you're thinking and feeling. But you've changed 180 degrees since you were forced, which is why you'll one day, I guess, at least before God, and tell St. Peter why you did it if we don't find out. But what matters is -- when you lie, now or have you lied in all those election campaigns, both us and the citizens of Serbia? It seems that you cannot, without a lie, and please, give another question, since we see that your ideologist, Alexander Vukic, has announced that he is allegedly going to visit the Republic of the Serbian Krajina, which means Croatia to him, because you admit that it is Croatia: why is he going there? Will she tell Sanader to forgive all crimes against Serbs? But we'll follow the situation, and we'll see where you are, which side and who you work for. Is there only Croatian intelligence, CIA, MI-6 or who? What are you going to say about Kosovo someday? Who can trust you, when you say anything today about KIM, when you have turned your back so completely on Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8193	Mr Ostojić answered first, then Mr. Žutić, but I would like to read you the notice we received from the government. ''To the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, President of the National Assembly Slavica Djukić-Dejanović on the grounds that there are in the public opinion on the level of earnings, i.e. salaries and bonuses paid or paid in public enterprises "The Railways", "Nikola Tesla" and others, we hereby inform you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will carry out an analysis of the total remuneration of the public undertakings' bodies ('businesses'), sorry), '''to determine whether these receipts are determined and paid in accordance with the positive regulations, as well as other circumstances related to payments of those receipts. I further inform you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has laid down the criteria for determining compensation for the work of members of the managing and monitoring bodies of public enterprises and subsidiaries of capital, the founders of which are public undertakings, public agencies and other forms of organisation, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, and the work is under way to determine the criteria for determining the level of reception of the business body, i.e. management in public enterprises. ''I think I give my word to Mr. Todorovic before the others, because I suppose it will be an answer to...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the thing that humiliated us the most, what happened in the Assembly. This is amazing, that after all the information, after all the facts presented in the Serbian Parliament, the government is sending a propaganda message that the government will solve and consider, look at all the facts, that it will organise commissions, working bodies, and, on the basis of all this, will take measures, bring certain guidelines, directions, 'trla baba lan, to pass her day'. This really doesn't make sense! Mrs. Dejanovic, you were a witness that we were really ready to go to work on the agenda, that we correctly left it to the government and gave it time to inform the Serbian Parliament about what to do, by making it clear that we were looking for Bojan Krishti's shift. We ask that a budget inspection be introduced immediately and that UBPOK be immediately introduced at Nicola Tesla Airport, because we are sure that all the incriminating material, everything that will indicate the robbery, will probably be removed. We think it's in the interest of the state. Obviously, from this response from the government there is no doubt that within the government, between parties, it is agreed not to go this way. What are the reasons? It's very simple, what you've brought here. Now some public enterprises from some ministries that held some parties in the previous period are going to press charges, but they will not go to a public company holding DS, because what Dinkic said yesterday is clear now. That means – don't touch "Nikola Tesla" and "Bojan Krista" anymore, because we're going to go to NIS, we're going to head to EPS, we're going to go to all the other public enterprises where they're "yellow" in power, and then we're going to present the facts that accuse DS, and in such threats there's obviously this response. Mrs. Djukic, we are not ready to accept this answer. Unfortunately, we will have to make additional arguments and facts that we will present, convince you again and the public to understand that it is necessary to comply with the demands of the Serbian Parliament. As I understood yesterday, it was also accepted by a part of the ruling majority, but it seems it was only to deceive Serbian citizens. There is no real desire to deal with crime and corruption. So we will continue to present all the facts that will support our evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8195	Mr. Ostojić answered his word. You're advertising the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8196	Presidents, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would not have answered the word and would not have interfered with the controversy between the party's colleagues yesterday, if Mr Petronijevic hadn't reported to us that he was giving us a lesson that the ruling majority advocated Parliament's work and urged MPs to make it possible to work. Mr. Petronivic, I only lost an hour and a half today because of a cross-radical quarrel or debate. It's a political struggle. Who's responsible for this? Do they have any dispute over the term of office? They do. Is he getting rid of it? He's not getting rid of it. Do they have to solve it? They can't solve it. Should the institutions act? Is most of them responsible for that? Don't say that this hour and a half is a problem now, and it's no problem that we didn't get the budget in time, which we didn't get the laws you promised. All the laws that are in the congregation, they are on the agenda and we will adopt them very quickly. It's not these hours and a half and their debate is responsible for the situation in Serbia and Bojan Kristo is not the main criminal here, gentlemen of the radicals, it's just the tip of the iceberg. It's not an airport problem. Where was he before? By the way, I'm taking the opportunity to ask the Government a question, she didn't answer me one question, and in this case, Madam President, since you read this information in such a way, I'm asking, is it true that Bojan Kristo, while being the director of Lutrija, translated this public enterprise into a limited-responsibility society, which can be formed for 500 euros, because of the fact that the Law on Public Procurement then does not apply to such a firm, even though it is the 100% owner of Serbia's state? These are things you cannot escape from in this congregation. It's not what happens among radicals alibis for you to accuse the Assembly of not working, but your inability to solve a problem that is objectively present, your inability to pass laws in the Assembly, by procedure, where we have time to see them, to discuss, to submit amendments. If we had time to read them and discuss with the government's representatives, there would be fewer amendments. Therefore, if you really want to decide that this Parliament is working, in line with the expectations of the Government and citizens, to move faster towards European integration, accept the amendments to the Rules of Procedures that the LDP proposes and they will allow Parliament to work more effectively, to strengthen Parliament's institution, without allowing the Government to give us laws in'minute to 12', that we do not have time to read them and to make everything clear. The one who manages European work is in principle working against European integration. Don't lecture us, better solve our problems or do something. Let them go, an hour and a half of it will last, we'll move on to Krisht again, we'll move on to other public enterprises. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I urge you to use your influence so that the distinguished Prime Minister Cvetkovic no longer addresses these letters. You are not his courier, although he has a government spokesman, his name is Boris Tadic. Only Boris Tadic talks about the government, what he will do, etc., and he can't hear. One time we saw him in this congregation when he was putting up with exposés. If you remember, few have welcomed the awake end. (President: Time. ) I would ask that, at least when the budget comes, Mr Cvetkovic honors us and if he does, he can bring Tadic's spokesman, but it would really be high time for him to come to the assembly. Please, time, sir. I'm done. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure proposed by the LDP. The MPs will have more, not less rights, as you are now trying to push through, we will pass the laws. You solve the problems that radicals have, we can't solve them, and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8197	Information works, this is information from the government that I read, signed by the government secretary. I contacted the government and asked for the government's position. Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 98(2). Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly in order to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion. I'm setting a break until 4:00. First I need to consult with the heads of Parliament, then I have to consult outside this building. It is much better to get some opinions, and when we start working, to work in line with the interests of Serbian citizens. I don't suppose there are any MPs who don't want to, but obviously there are ways of thinking about how to do it differently. So, at 12.00 hours meeting with the heads of the parliamentary groups at my place.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session, with discussion in particular. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT (single) To Article 44, MP Srdjan Spasojevic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8199	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment submitted to the appointed member, I believe that it improves the text of the bill and the SRS will be defined in the voting day whether it will support it or not. In the agenda, I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Chairman, if you'll allow me, to the independence of the judiciary and the birth of judicial independence. The court profession is everywhere in all countries, well, of course, and in England, which is thought to be a cradle of judicial independence, considered a very respectable, almost mystical character. Regardless of all the difficulties, judicial functions in many Western European countries, and especially in England, are considered a great privilege, so it is no wonder that there are a large number of lawyers who would like to be judges. In England, judges are similar to priests, but we don't accept that, at least from that point of view when we look at the trial in The Hague, where judges are dressed in a special uniform that's closer to the monastery's order uniform. Given the specificity of the language they serve, the clothes they wear, the isolation of the English judges from the outside world, it is all in the function of protecting their independence, which remains fiercely defended in England. In the history of the English judiciary, it was noted that in the ninth century alone in one year, I repeat, the Saxon King Alfred condemned 44 judges for the murders they committed in their wrong judgments. It was also recorded, ladies and gentlemen, that Henry VI said the first thing he would do would be to kill all the lawyers and save his kingdom from them. But that didn't happen, but I'm talking about the mood of dictators and monarchs. The sustainability of the judicial post, as the basis for the existence of independence of judges, was first mentioned on the European continent after England, where the issue was regulated in the late XVII century, in France, in the Constitutional Charter in 1814. This was preceded in France by the entire 18th century and by the French legal public in favour of the English legal institutes. During the revolution, France experienced bloodshed, terror, conflict under Napoleon. Napoleon opposed the adoption of English institutes in France, but the issue became current immediately after his abdication. In France, there was a struggle to adopt English legal views and institutes, as the most advanced and most democratic legal, and comparable, system in Europe. The English and the French went through civil war and bloodshed. They have suffered severe attacks against the judiciary and clashes with the king and parliament over legislative co-operation. The independence of the courts, along with the division of power and the legislative supremacy of parliament, was born in England, as I said, in the XVII century. I thought it was necessary to shed light on the events at the time, and also our state and our judiciary, in any case, should be improved in a better way. When it comes to the independence of the judiciary, the best way to determine the nature of the given political order is to see justice and the position of the courts, which is to question its independence and impartiality. Woe to a country in which the judiciary is not worthy. You may have in one country and the ugly police and the difficult regime, but if you have a court at the right height, then you have security for your life, for honor and for property. You don't have a court, you have nothing. A well-organised state, with the rule of law and justice, involves much more than mere existence and concealment of democracy and democratic principles, and above all, the free public, strong and recognizable opposition, such as the SRS, completely free press, radio and television, which will not be the advertising agency of the ruling party and its helpers, therefore need awake and self-aware citizens, and they need an independent judiciary, police that will not oversee citizens and an army that will not interfere with politics, as was the case with us. Many things, ladies and gentlemen, are not in Serbia today. We should not allow our entire judiciary to be placed at the top of the corruption suspect scale, as some want to attribute it to the overall judiciary in Serbia. I'm saying that's not true. If there is corruption in the judiciary, then it can be individual, individual. Against corrupt individuals in the judiciary, prone to bribery and corruption, one can stand in the way of identifying these facts and moving away from the same judicial functions holders from judicial institutions. The position of Serbia's judiciary in relation to the executive power remains subjective, which was particularly reflected in the appointments and resolutions of judges and prosecutors in the past period. This can be seen in the transitional and final provisions of this law on courts, i.e. the election of judges, prosecutors and deputies, because the proposed way of selecting judges, prosecutors and their deputies is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, what I'm trying to say is that it's a true skill of good and righteousness. However, as far as this set of law on justice is concerned, it can be said that these laws are prepared and proposed, not to say, almost per order. I am not saying in a classical sense that they are by order, but it is concluded – that the proposal of these laws has been implemented and delivered to the Assembly without sufficient time for public debate. Therefore, the professional public had no opportunity to give their opinion in the best way and in the best way possible for each law. The proposed set of judicial laws did not have to be considered now by emergency procedure, but could be considered in a regular procedure, a classical emergency procedure. This is not how other entities in our country are given the opportunity to plead, to give an opinion on certain provisions regarding the rights and duties of the holders of judicial functions, and, on the other hand, when it comes to the rights and responsibilities of the citizens, to comply with the norms, and norms should be such that they can be afforded the right to do so in time. This is how the proposed solutions that need to office and regulate the establishment of courts and prosecutors and the choice of judicial holders, both judicial and prosecutorial, are not in line, I can say, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Transitional and final provisions, which are normable in art. 99, 100 and 101, give the High Judicial Council the right for the institution, proposed in this law, to carry out the selection of the judiciary, both the judge and the prosecutors and their deputies, according to its recommendation and the order. This is not good because both judges and prosecutors are unhappy. I believe that the professional public, especially from judicial institutions, must be respected – the opinion of judges and prosecutors. Because judges and prosecutors are not "sibicarians" to be bypassed—no, they must be consulted. These are people who have professional experience, these are people who will know to recognize and recommend which legal norm is possible and effective in practice. I'm worried, I'm afraid that the honorary, honest, professional and quality judicial personnel will be resolved if, firstly, the holders of judicial functions do not elect members of the High Council of Justice. I repeat, the professor of law school has no experience compared to the judges. There is not five percent experience in relation to the judge and the prosecutor who have worked for 15, 20 or 30 years in the profession. Therefore, the High Council of the Judiciary cannot propose itself, and it is not alone that he can be spared the selections, to say, the lustrations, and that all others, judges, prosecutors, deputies and honorable men in the profession are one day resolved. It is known that Serbia has about 2,500 judges. I note, unfortunately, England has 1,630 judges, but there are also 500 baristas. When the judges are proposed, I draw the attention of the Minister – I noticed that you have neglected judges for violations. What is characteristic, and true, is that courts, or bodies, as they are now called, are working in very bad conditions. They're in the barracks somewhere, that's the case in Belgrade, and there are cases in Panchev. Staff working in that body, who will probably end up being concentrated as an authority for the area of several municipal bodies, i.e. Judges of transgressions must also be valued, and with personal income, and with work space, and with wages, and with pensions, and with all that is rightful, and with other judges. So, when it comes to working experience for the selection of judges, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in England the judge becomes at 52, and we want the judge to be with three years of work experience – not without experience and expertise. And what happens in England?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8200	Time, 15 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8201	Has it been a while? Thank you, I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8202	The time available to your MP group has been used. The word was sought by a representative of the government, but MP Dragan Todorovic wanted to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and received word on the basis of Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8203	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize to Madam Minister, but unfortunately we have been forced to warn the MPs of the Republic of Serbia – that this government has absolutely no intention of taking any step to deal with the problems you have had to hear and who are so great, that it is simply astounding, despite the minimum requirements, as I could understand, of all the MPs in the Serbian Parliament, to come out in the face of these demands. What we asked for, to repeat, is in the management of the finance ministry and the MUP, as Bojan Kristo fled Serbia, there is no longer any dilemma. There are two more demands, which is that the finance ministry send a budget inspection and that the MUP send UPPOK. What we expect, among other things, Mrs. Komic, you said, and this can be seen in the stenogram, that the material should be delivered to the public prosecutor – we expect the attorney general, the state prosecutor, on the basis of all information, to initiate the procedure. Normally, to join this and all state authorities, to solve this problem. But this morning I expressed concern that this government has no intention – because there is a balance of fear, because it is being blackmailed by Mladjan Dinkic by the simple fact that he will start to bring problems to other public enterprises. Among other things, you could see it in a government statement, which lists another company, from a cabinet whose minister had been in the government before, and the other. That says you have no genuine intention of dealing with this problem. But let me tell you -- we have no intention of giving in, we said so, and we will keep the promise we made to the citizens of Serbia! The assembly cannot work until you start counting, because for Serbian citizens, it is much more important to investigate all these problems, rather than allegedly pass laws to which we will be in Europe. Well, who's gonna take you to Europe like this? Who will receive thieves and criminals?- I'm sorry. Just take an example of Bulgaria. For corruption, they took away 800m euros, as they do not allow them to be robbed. And you think they'll let you go? You don't think they know what's going on. That's why you'll have a chance to get to know each other, because this isn't yesterday. This has been happening a long time for many parties, among other things, and for DS, but here it is now G17 plus and Bojan Kristo. In 2008, a criminal application was sent to Serbian Parliament President Oliver Dulic, the Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia, President Boris Tadic, the cabinet of the Prime Minister, Vojislav Kostunica, the Minister of Finance, the Police, the Agency for Property, the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, the Government's Anti-Corruption Council, the SRS Parliament Club, to remind you, our MP Zdravko Topalovic presented these problems in 2007, the DS MP's Club, the G17 MP club, the LDP, the SPS, the Old Town Public Prosecutor's Department. You are deaf to this and think you will be able to deceive and deceive Serbian citizens again. You won't be able to, you have to finish this! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8204	Under the agreement of the president of the parliamentary groups, when a word is sought for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the presidents have the advantage. National MP Milos Aligrudic, the president of the parliamentary groups, and Vladan Batic reported. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, so Nada Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8205	I'll be very brief. So, you heard my predecessor. He was talking about something that exists as a problem in this society, something that was discussed here yesterday in Parliament all day. Ladies and gentlemen, and what you're listening to right now, and it's a parliamentary debate. I am very sorry that it is not discussed on the agenda and on the amendments that follow. Our DSS MPs are ready to defend their amendments and discuss the amendments of other MPs. But it's just that when a theme like this comes up, it's just that she's looking for an answer. As I understand it, what the opposition MPs are asking you for, specifically the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is very little. It is a concrete answer to a few specific questions. It is a minimum, it is neither required to be tried here, nor to be ruled, nor to be delivered to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by certain people and their responsibilities. It is only required to see if the government of the Republic of Serbia is ready to take measures in the ministries and other institutional places to take when such events happen. That's what you're looking for. I can't understand one thing, it's a question for the ruling coalition -- how is it possible that since the meeting of the heads of parliament, which was at 12:00, until now, we haven't had an adequate answer that would allow this session to go normally on its own? So, yes, do not always substitute the opposition for what it can and should be the responsibility of the ruling majority, when it comes to establishing order in parliament and working on the agenda. So, you just have to do it, because we're not here when we're discussing this, the opposition to the citizens of Serbia. We are an opposition to you, the ruling majority, and you are obviously an opposition to the citizens of Serbia for at least two reasons – which you are not working in their interest and which, obviously, at this point, most Serbian citizens are not behind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8206	The word has a folk letter from Nada Kolundji, president of the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8207	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which says that the speaker can talk about a point on the agenda and a topic on the agenda, respecting the interest of this parliament and, I believe, in some situations, and the interest of the Serbian citizens, that there are also topics that are not on the agenda, but as far as the citizens of Serbia are concerned, we felt that one question, which was raised, is important and we supported it. We felt that the competent institutions should, in line with the information, initiate everything that is in accordance with the law and establish the full truth about it, and not only about this public enterprise, but in general about all public enterprises and that institutions are fully clear criteria and measures of government that the government will in future establish rules under which such phenomena will no longer occur. In that sense, we felt that if the debate lasted longer on the subject, it could speed up and increase pressure and we felt that it was, in some ways, strengthening the role of parliament. But when the MP comes out and says threatening, not only with his finger, but verbally, that this assembly will not do its job, then it will certainly go outside the Rules of Procedure, outside the law and outside the Constitution, because it knows what the constitutional authority and the task of this Parliament is. The only thing we can say – yes, together with you we will insist that all necessary measures and steps be taken, but no, we will not allow you to prevent the abuse of the Assembly from fulfilling its basic constitutional role and task. Because, as we acknowledge, it is a shame if public enterprises are a space for abuses, malfeasance, corruption and obtaining personal benefit, it is also much greater social damage if every institution does not do the superior work for which it is authorized, and this assembly is authorized to discuss the amendments that are on the agenda today. If the government doesn't get an adequate response, we can start the same topic again tomorrow and we can look again for what's expected. This is how one initiative that we have supported as a good initiative grows to its opposite and you lose the right to invite others to support you in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8208	We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Judges (specificities) National MP Srdjan Spasojevic asked for a debate on the amendment, given that the Government's representative asked for the matter, and I saw all the MPs who had called, so it was a debate in particular, and the amendment to Article 44, which, with correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. I give my word to the government's representatives, Minister Snezani Malovic. When she speaks to you, we will continue to work under a silent agreement on the use of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8209	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and on behalf of the Ministry of Justice who prepared this bill, we accept this amendment and I believe that the solution proposed in this amendment is complete. So, as I said, whenever we consider amendments to be good, we will not hesitate to accept them, so we accept this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8210	I am informing the Assembly that the amendment remains in the procedure and that the vote is due to the fact that the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the amendment. In the event that a session and amendment is also accepted on the Justice and Administration Committee by the day of the vote, then the amendment to Article 44, with the correction submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic, becomes an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does MP Srdjan Spasojevic want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8211	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Mrs Kolundzija, I can also welcome one part of what you said and I am pleased to conclude that you responded yesterday and some of the reactions came from the government, but that's not enough. Bojan Kristo hasn't been removed, Bojan Kristo resigned. It's not about him getting arrested. (President: I ask the People's MPs not to earn and not to violate the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104) I will immediately suggest to you the way in which you will be able to resolve the situation, that we never talk about it in this congregation again. Let's see the final accounts of the public enterprises. Have the State Audit Authority do their job, control the final accounts of public enterprises, and we'll see what's going on there. He's not the only Bojan Kristo. That's the point. What we got from the government, as we get from certain public enterprises, is a joke with the citizens; a man from Telecom says – well, we spent 42 million on the team over a year just on acidic water and coffee. That's extremely irresponsible. I have to ask you something else -- when it comes to the flag, we know what happened before the election, it has been famously announced that a deal has been made with the Fiat Group and that the flag will have a strategic partner, that there will be investments by the Fiat. On Monday night, however, at 19.00 p.m., only one radio station released news that the President of the Independent Union of Zastava, Zoran Mihajlovic, said -- that he is not clear on why the Council House "Citadel" received 50m euros because it brought a strategic partner to the flag. The deficits regarding that number didn't come from the Privatisation Agency. The only thing that came in was that the flag didn't get on that. The Citadel, however, received 50 million on that basis. I ask the government - on what grounds did Citadel receive 50m euros from the Privatisation Agency? What kind of work did she do for her? Does Mladjan Dinkic have anything to do with it, as Mladjan Dinkic boasted that he had brought "Fiat", and boasted that there are many significant global and European companies at the door of Serbia to invest in Serbia? Is Mladjan Dinkic behind all this? Who goes to this 50 million that's listed as going to the Citadel consultant's house? Those questions for the government, and I really expect a quick answer. Because this is amazing, so the flag is not privatized, it's just foreign investment. Everyone boasted that the state had brought in a strategic partner and suddenly a consulting house that paid 50 million, according to the president of the flag unions, because it brought... (Chairman: National MP, it's the third minute.) Please specify the member of the Rules of Procedure to which you have called. ) Article 104. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8212	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). In the explanation of MP Slobodan Maraš's injury to a member, there is no material to explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8213	Mrs. Komic, unlike those who do not know the Rules of Procedure, I appeal to Rule 27, and I am not angry that you did not warn your predecessors about it, and there were five-six of them, that it is necessary to refer to a member of the Rules of Procedure. I call myself neatly because I know what it looks like when you're punishing. Article 27, and this does not apply to you, so that you do not scribble, but to the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. What's this about? We have a situation here to be a member of 27. The Rules of Procedure apply by finding a way to abuse that member. We are exposed to a kind of risk and pressure, as one of my predecessors said, evenly distributed fear. What's this about? We have different categories of speakers from this payphone that bring out some personal impressions, and I, officially, am not only in shape, but also in the need to give an explanation, and to allow MPs to do their jobs normally, so that people with this many years of life would not be naive, because it is possible for someone to present us to be absolutely naive or that we are all complicit in this epidemic of crime that is ruling in Serbia, from this pay phone neatly, every day, asking and supplementing the same question. Please, "whose snake burns and lizard is afraid. "Do you know what the salaries of the Director of the Commercial Bank are and what party holds the Commercial Bank?" We don't have an answer. What happens if Governor Jelasic gets on a plane and flees abroad? I can completely suspect and warn young Major Djurisic about what might happen. The following could happen -- that the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia are held in a German bank, that they serve as a guarantee for all these loans and this debt through European banks and others, that citizens, when they go to look for their money in commercial banks with foreign names, kiss the counter and return. Now they're going to lose money on European criteria, that's the difference. Please warn Mrs. Kolundji, the National Assembly, in addition to being authorised and obliged to lay down regulations, is authorised and is obliged to control the government and is the first defence in the fight against crime in the Republic of Serbia. All these demands are justified. Since the opposition started asking for this matter to be discussed, you see for yourself, resignations have been dropping, data on the yellow crime epidemic is coming out. So you didn't hurt Article 27, but I'm asking you to respect Article 27, to allow MPs to engage in the fight against crime, no matter who takes action. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) Currently it's G17 plus in evacuation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8214	There's no damage to article 27. As for the control of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the end of this session, and at the end of all the points of the agenda, it is a point of the agenda – parliamentary issues, which is government control, and I am sorry that this point is not already taking place, because the topic is interesting, but it is not on the agenda, and on Friday, the 28th session on the vote of non-trust is scheduled for the Government, and these are the two mechanisms which the Assembly controls, these are the two instruments which the Assembly controls the work of the Government. National MP Milos Aligrudic, as president of the DSS parliamentary group, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8215	I'm sorry, but I have to, it's article 27, and it's about you. Your comments are sometimes fun, and sometimes excessive, and sometimes confusing, as is the case with this previous one. You're probably not well-informed, Madam Chairman. At a meeting of the heads of Parliament clubs that's been going on since 12:00, about an hour or so, we tried to arrange with the president of the National Assembly that all this would continue to develop, when it comes to the course of this session and the next moves. It was concluded in the end, as the president of the ZES Parliament Club told us, that it is the will of the ruling coalition to end this session, and that after this session on the agenda there will be a session on the no-confidence vote of the government and afterwards, because that is the only way it can be, the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That would be the full truth of what's to come. That's why I had to report that the people who are tracking the transmission or the MPs present in the room don't come to the wrong conclusions, what's going to happen. Besides, another inaccuracy has been stolen, which is not a difficult problem, but we're going to fix it now. Friday's not 27. It's 28. Since this is already agreed, and when there have been attempts and the draft budget is included in this session, what can technically be done at some point, I would take this opportunity and ask the representatives of the ruling coalition whether they know or perhaps the Minister knows – is tomorrow on the agenda of the Government's budget of the Republic of Serbia? It's a very short question and requires a very short answer. I would be very happy to have an answer to the question asked, because if that is not the case, then this whole messaging of the work of the National Assembly is a failure to accept the minimum demands of opposition MPs, in fact, to defuse the work of the National Assembly, related to getting time. Deny what I said, answer my question, very briefly and simply – is tomorrow on the agenda of the government's budget of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8216	You'll see by looking at the stenogram that there's no injury to the article you quoted. I said -- scheduled for Friday, 28, and that's information that's valid. By looking at the stenogram, you can check if I'm telling the truth, and I said there was no injury to article 27, because he was quoted by MP Zoran Krasic. The notice on whether the start of a session scheduled for 28th, about the government's mistrust, will be postponed or not, has neither reached the MPs nor reached me as chairman. I'm not getting into what kind of deal was made with the presidents of the parliamentary groups. It was an objection to the government's control of the assembly. The parliamentary issues, the last item on the end of all the agenda points of this third session, which is under way, and for Friday, 28, a session on government mistrust is scheduled. These are instruments that we control together the government and the ruling majority and the opposition. The word has been made by MP Velimir Ilic, president of the NS Group of MPs. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8217	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday it was a great pleasure for me to be in Parliament when a series of real problems are being discussed which are now current in Serbia and when we have already been minor to the principles of that session that is being postponed, which is a mistrust with the Government. We discussed yesterday the reasons why the government's mistrust was sought and that was extremely good. Two big jobs were done yesterday. One job is to go into a decisive fight against crime and corruption in public enterprises. We were unanimous that we would not protect anyone and that no one would have protection, that we would debate very seriously. But I'd like to draw attention to this gentleman who's been throwing attention -- that one of the directors in Flight Control has an average salary of 13,000 euros a month -- five times we've been looking for his shift, we haven't been able to do it, and it's been said that those are the "obligations" of the DS towards him, because his wife was the secretary of the late prime minister and we can't touch him. And it's been so long, 13,000 euros, I repeat! Now, that's one of the following topics. I wanted to continue today this very good debate that will bear fruit and start here a little bit of the topic that some once had, and that's Mr. Miskovic's question. You know I'm with him in court, that he sued me for one statement when I said he was "a graver of the Serbian economy". He told me - call for immunity and everything will be fine. No, there is no immunity, we want to prove whether Mr. Miskovic is "the graver of the Serbian economy" or not. We want to go into this debate, get started slowly, and we'll get to the finish line. Word is, the big financial crisis in the world, but these people today in the biggest financial crisis, when the euro went wild, can't be kept, this unfortunate Jelasic spends budget foreign reserves trying to stop it, but there's nothing there. And you see what this is about -- the question is who buys our foreign exchanges that we sell to, to whom we sell them, a day of 50, 70, 80 million euros. Some tycoons still get rich today when Serbia is in a major crisis, at the expense of all of us Serbian citizens. Now there's one topic. It started – saving, saving, saving! I agree with saving, but let's start at the top. The head of state can't have three residences that cost a lot! What does a man want with three residences today?- I'm sorry. Well, one can be enough for him, let's get him two, some spare, summer house, and there's a lot of three, serving three cabinets, a lot of security services, and all that. Let's start discussing the topics that life means! So I want to start these real topics and discuss the government's non-trust debate and make arguments, and also forget some peripheral issues of hearsay, some internal conflicts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8218	Please, by respecting the agreement to use the Rules of Procedure to discuss this kind, to respect ourselves and to specify the member we call upon to get a word, because there is no way to get a word in the discussion of the particulars, unless it states which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. The word comes from MP Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, but briefly, just to answer to Mrs. Kolundjia, since I wasn't there. I'm sure you can wait until tomorrow, believing it'll come "a little tomorrow," because we've been waiting eight years to launch a first step against corruption and crime. But obviously you won't, and we will, and we will try everything in our power to make it go away. Obviously, some data that was reported yesterday has already upset some, but it is not correct to serve false things. Today, in "Politica" from "Yugoimport", and it also arrived in the Serbian Parliament, officially said -- Todorovic provided incorrect information. Maybe they're not right, but I took them out on paper that came from Jugoimport. Now let them see, maybe they're not really true, maybe this 24 million is just part of it, because they say that they spent most of the time abroad on their business partners, giving them probably extremely pleasant opportunities to close contracts as soon as possible. Who knows what was in the arrangement, I'm not going to go into it, because I didn't even talk here about the structure of these funds, how they were spent, except when it comes to Nicole Tesla Airport and Bojan Kristo. We'll go that way and see how these budget funds are spent. But because of the citizens of Serbia, in order not to remain inexplicable, I took it out of this table that I have that Jugoimport spent on behalf of the team 24,352,793,83 dinars and director 956,581 dinars. In a letter to the Administrative Committee on 4 March 2008, it said – the amount of the "Jugoimport" SDPR team for 2007, as the amount of other immaterial costs and thus further established by the financial plan for 2007 in the country and abroad, is 24,352,793,83. That's what I said. What's wrong here? They say it's CEO 956,581 dinar. I said the same thing. What's wrong here? It is obvious that they are also trying to justify themselves in front of the citizens of Serbia, using the lies. I brought out the true data that came to the Administrative Board, and it is up to you, as the Government has promised, to do everything, to see the cost structure, or structure of the funds allocated to the team.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8220	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a moment the president of the MEP Group for European Serbia severely injured the dignity of the National Assembly, therefore, Article 104, probably, thinking that Serbian lawmakers and citizens have short memories, speaking of what happened yesterday. Yesterday, we agreed that the ZES would support this, and it came down to Bojan Kristo being on a plane last night, Belgrade Airport, providing him with a plane ticket, and running off to Dusseldorf. (I don't know, Mr. Krassic, it's said to me in the neighborhood - escape! ) Of course, the state of Serbia had to sign a red warrant and return it from that moment on. We did not ask that Bojan Kristo resign but that Bojan Kristo be replaced and that UBPOK and the financial police enter Belgrade Airport. I remind you that MPs of the SRS have been talking about Bojan Kriste's criminal activities for almost two years, from Lutrija Sr., then when he came to Belgrade Airport; at Lutrija Sr., he was in your practice. And all the time you've been deaf about the request for the state of Serbia to exercise control. There is one more thing, that is Mr. Velimir Ilic mentioned a little bit, this is just the tip of the iceberg, ladies and gentlemen, only one particle where incredible money is stolen from Serbian citizens. Mr. Velimir Ilic mentioned the Flight Control Agency. The state of Serbia has no control over the Agency for Flight Control. That's where the shovels get kidnapped! For two years, the MPs of the SRS have warned you, and the conclusion that can be drawn goes from one story of my friend, a acquaintance, who has a major trading company. He had problems with customs at the Bulgarian border and he asked me how to handle this. And the Bulgarian customs officer says, "Brother, let me teach you, if you have a problem, solve a lot of salt money, if you can't solve it with money, solve it with lots of money. "Well, gentlemen, there's a lot of money you're dealing with your internal problems, paying for various "christs", various "dinks", various "stamps" and various other breakthroughs that you've brought into a situation that can thicken up the mustache, and by the way, probably, since it's a system to divide the ministries, if the minister is from one party, then the cleaning lady from that party, then some political parties are being financed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is high time that the state of Serbia puts these pests in a safe, dark and cold place, so that they no longer break down.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8222	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8223	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 31, 221, and 226. Rules of Procedure. The LDP has shown its intention to work, as far as these laws are concerned, to discuss them, to work on amendments, etc., obviously we cannot continue this work, and for what reasons? One crucial question arises – do we live in the country or is this a circus? What we've been listening to all day yesterday, what we're hearing today is just pointing to that fact. What is it, but a circus, if the authorities of this state don't do what they're supposed to do by law and what are they bound by the Constitution to do? I would remind those bodies that, according to budget rebalancing, budget users, say, the Anti-Corruption Council of 14 million dinars, so gentlemen from that council are spending 14 million dinars. For example, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office uses this rebalancing system that we adopted 210 million dinars, the district public prosecutors use 673 million dinars, the state audit institution uses 47 million dinars, the Ministry of the Interior uses 47 billion dinars, and the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering 46 million dinars. What are the amounts that these bodies, what services, what administrations use you without doing anything? I remind you that they are obliged to work both the MUP and the Republic, as well as other prosecutions, whenever they detect any irregularities that smell like criminal acts. Why do you need more than we've heard? How can a man get a salary of 20,000 euros a month, etc., not order those figures? How is it possible that, suddenly, instead of the oil-gas deal, only the oil deal, the sale of NIS, we know at what price? We've heard there's no mention of a freeway pipeline anymore, we need to sort out, get out of pockets of all kinds of irregularities we've heard about, read and talk about each other, and obviously nothing is. So I ask that question again – are we a state or not? People's MPs are obliged to point out everything they notice, irregularities in a country that affect the lives of citizens and that absolutely prevent this country from working. So we expect a reaction from the authorities, and we expect it not to end with a simple scandal, but to finally get answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8224	Parliamentwoman Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8225	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting by article 104. 225 and 226. I am reporting under Article 104 because Nada Kolundzija, president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, severely injured the dignity of the National Assembly. This morning, Mrs. Kolundji came out and said that she allegedly knows about some war crimes, and now she doesn't know where Bojan Kristo is. Since you don't know, Mrs. Kolundzhija, you are an uninformed woman, and since you have a laptop, you've been playing with it for three days now, let's type in a nice website called "Politicals", so read the whole, from today on, this text that was partially quoted by Mr. Todorovic. He provided accurate and concrete information. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, at a press conference for the SRS on 28 April this year, launched the whole story about "Nikola Tesla" Airport and specifically presented the data: how much is spent on representation, on wages, on membership of the boards of directors of 28 public enterprises, with an accent on the affair and on the robbery by Krist and his accomplices at the "Nikola Tesla" airport. Then you said, here it is in my hand, Mrs. Kolundzija, the exposé of Mirko Cvetkovic, on page 10 - the fight against crime and corruption, a sharp reckoning. I have to remind you, and yet you are a lady who is in that age who can remember that, at Fumicino Airport in Rome has produced many affairs for various Italian governments, so perhaps you remember, and perhaps one of your colleagues, though, at that time I was in preschool or elementary school, I can't remember, that one Italian government, I think, in 1972, fell because of the fact, here says Mr Batic to know that she couldn't extend the airport runway. They wanted then the Italian government at Fumicino Airport to expand the runway by taking away some of the land's owners. It's been a big affair. One day, the Italian Parliament discussed it. The next day the whole government fell because of the runway. And now you don't know if Kristo landed this morning or last night at Fluughafen Airport in Dusseldorf. How is that possible? Look for information. I'm asking the competent state authorities, since we all have to, as citizens with passports, only if he didn't leave with some fake passport, changed his identity in the meantime, disguised himself, did the Fluughafen Airport in Dusseldorf land last night or this morning, Bojan Kristo? Mr. Todorovic has information that he went there from Nikola Tesla airport. I'm asking our police if that's the way he got out of the country. Everybody knows what he looks like. All the daily papers published his photographs. Here, take a little interest and tell us, and don't tell us – well, we don't know where he went, etc. How many such criminals have escaped from the country from October 5th to today you have no idea. And it's not enough for you. You say the Parliament's blockade, and in 1972, the government fell in Italy because of an airport runway. I don't know what else a man should tell you. I'm done, Mrs. Comic. I will end with the comments of "Politicals" readers on the text of Mrs. Cekerevic, and based on the information provided by Mr. Todorovic. Type in, now, Mrs. Kolundzija, this text "Politicals" and look at the comments of Serbian citizens – shame, shame, thieves, criminals, get out of power!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8226	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8227	I'm reporting from Article 226. The half man. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to fighting corruption and crime yesterday, it seemed at one point that the assembly's majority had broken out of the auspices of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and were ready to truly face this problem here in Parliament, which is evident at the top of the government, or in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What happened in the meantime? Bojan Kristo has escaped, and now the majority of the congregation thinks it should be the end of the story, to put an end to it. The man's gone, he's taken the money. We've brought it up before. This is not the solution, and therefore we insist that the financial inspection be examined, that all competent inspections determine what is really going on in the business of Belgrade Airport, that the competent services and UPPOK and the public prosecutor, or the state prosecutor, start doing their job. If the government reacted in time according to our insistence then the government would be in a position to resolve Bojan Krishti, because we insisted on it, and as you think it should end, it's good maybe, Mrs. Komic, which you still don't know the date when the debate about mistrust will be held. What the government did yesterday, i.e. not reacting to all the arguments that we have made here, is enough in every serious state and in every congregation majority to say that the government does not deserve the trust of the assembly majority and that the government does not deserve the trust of the citizens of Serbia, and the citizens know it well. Why did I say it was a good thing we still don't know the date when they're going to argue about the government's mistrust? Because there is a serious fear that, given that we have prepared for individual members of the government all of what is involved in their crime and participation in criminal activities, so it can happen that in the day we discuss mistrust with the government, a large number of ministers are headed through Bojan Krishte. That is, it seems, and we are told here that because of our discussions, we are unable to discuss the laws that should lead Serbia to Europe. As for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it seems that a large number of government members will go to Europe the way Bojan Kristo went! So, from Nicole Tesla Airport, with the money waiting for him out there in an offshore account, and we insist that the authorities do their job and not allow him to go to Europe, but some of them have to go through CZ first, the Padin Skela, the Zabel, etc., so who knows how many years, if they do, they can go to Europe!- I'm sorry. I'm done. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8228	The People's MP Free Maras has a word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8229	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to you for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. In addition to asking the government about management contracts, or management allowances in Serbia's Oil Industry, or NIS, I wanted to say one more thing. We have singled out, as my colleague, Judita Popovic, mentioned, 40 and some million for the functioning of the State Auditing Institution, and we are being controlled by the final accounts of public companies by private audit houses. The main business of the State Auditing Institution must be to control public undertakings, or their final accounts. There's the source of all corruption, the biggest corruption in this country. We really must insist on that, that the State Auditing Institution, once it's got the space, finds the right people to do it. There are many authorities in Serbia who can do the job for the state as well. Also, one thing is very interesting. We can't just stay on the Bojana Krisht and the Airport. We need to get to the next situation, so it doesn't come from the Initiative Assembly to check the business of the Airport and its director, it would never be anything, because the state authorities aren't doing their job, no matter what year and change days it's going through. I wanted to ask you a question for the government, and I'm asking it to be recorded. Is it true that in the Oil Industry of Serbia from top management, be careful that's a very stretching notion, 50 people have signed management contracts? Is it true that 50 people get a manager's allowance, whose range is from two average gross earnings to seven? The numbers range from 100 and some thousands to 400 and some thousands of management supplements. One man's worth, times 12 months a year, times two or three years, so figure out what the figures are. I expect the government to answer us most recently on this matter. I just wanted to look back on one more thing. We saw a fantastic situation this morning, one MP from one parliamentary group came out to carry out a classic obstruction, to challenge the reaction of another parliamentary group, and to completely turn away the story of what was important, about what was supposed to be the point of today's debate, which is that one person who abused his resignation, or had to be replaced, but unfortunately she resigned. We've come into a situation where after an hour and a half, we've continued after four hours and, as far as I can see, the President of the Assembly has arrived. We can expect that even now the session will be interrupted, or that we will meet for a better reason when we get the budget. Maybe in about six months we can discuss him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8230	Mr. Todorovic, I'll give you my word, but I'd like to ask you one more time to return to the agenda and work on the amendments. Two days already, practically, we're advertising the Rules of Procedure, I think the message of this assembly is quite clear. Now the rest of this country's organs are up, they're doing their job, we have information about that. I will give you my word, Mr. Todorovic, in the hope that you will support this proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Slavica, we can only support if you give us a written guarantee from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior that they will take action. What you're doing is hypocritical. You have information that Bojan Kristo escaped. Look, the reporters who heard some information yesterday were going to check it out. And what did they come up with? According to the data "Politics" had on his trip to Zurich, otherwise, I was delivering that data yesterday, paid 178,643 dinars, counting on the middle rate at that time of 75.94, the map cost 2,352 euros. So much, by the way, costs about a two-week New Year's arrangement in Bali in one of the leading tourist agencies, and that's how much it cost, or paid, the Bojan Krist road to Madrid. Otherwise, this is a robbery, this is no longer an immoral abuse of funds, this is a robbery, the most expensive ticket costs 1,362 euros, or 990 euros less than Bojan Kristo reported. Also, journalists presented themselves as interested customers and received information that the flight to Swiss air business class costs 977 euros, which is 1,375 euros less than the amount that Bojan Kristo bought over a single agency. Also, it's interesting that Bojan Kristo didn't travel on JAT's planes at all. Imagine you are the director of "Nikola Tesla" Airport, which travels to various world companies, but is probably below its level to pay for 248 euros in the economic class, or 620 euros in the business class. This, Mrs. Kolundjia, is best said that you will not deal with crime and corruption. If journalists could get this data, so what kind of data would experts come up with, people who have been dealing with this business for years, about budgetary inspection. Well, they'd have such data in a short time, I guess, if some of them had to take sick leave, because they couldn't handle what they'd find at Nicole Tesla Airport. (President: Time. But this, gentlemen, speaks of you, of your government, of the balance of fear and inadequacy to deal with crime and corruption. That's why you're the accomplices in all of this, because this best shows that you don't touch Mladjan Dinkic so he doesn't go out with the data about you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-26-0.u8232	Please, there are twenty of you registered under the Rules of Procedure. We haven't extended the work today, no, please, if we're going to work on the amendment, I assure you that all institutions and individuals are doing their job according to the information we've received. I didn't promise you, here, I assure you. In case you don't accept my suggestion to work on the agenda, in case you don't accept, please, I'll interrupt work early and we'll continue work tomorrow morning, but I'm inviting you, once again, to work on the agenda and the amendments. No, you want to follow the Rules of Procedure. Please, we'll be off duty by 10:00 tomorrow. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope today we will continue to work on the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 136 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third is present, so that we can continue our work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Radojko Obradovic. He was the only one to justify his absence. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also today called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. I thank Mr. Cosic for having responded and attending the session. I would like to inform you that I have called for the part of the afternoon session to be attended by students and professors of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the Roman University of La Sapienza, headed by Professor Fulko Lancaster, who are staying in Belgrade as guests of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT (specificity) I remind you that the National Assembly at yesterday's session suspended its work during the review of the amendment to Article 44. The bill was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Before discussing the amendment, Mr Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
