ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 168 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 124 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I have not been informed of the absence of today's session by any MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited, in addition to the MPs, that the sittings are also attended by Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, a candidate for Prime Minister, and candidates for members of the Government. Let me greet them on your behalf and mine. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that we have called this session extremely for Monday, 7 July 2008, therefore, within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure, as well as those laid down in Article 85(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to choose Serbia's government as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the Second Special Session of the National Assembly in 2008 we established the following Dn e n e d: 1. The government's choice. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Mr. Aligrudić's choice of government, please, according to the Rules of Procedure, are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1125	Madam President, on the basis of an article. Article 94(3), point (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 1(1), point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 1(1), point (c) of Article 1(1), point (c) of Article 1(1), point (c) of Article 1(1), point (c) of Article 1(1), point (d) of Article 1(1), point (d) of Article 1(1), point (d) of Article 1(1), point (d) and point (d) of Article 1(1), point (d) of Article 1(1), point (d) of Article 1(1), point (d) of Article 3(1), point (d) of Article 3(1), point (e) of Article 3(1), point (d, point (d) of Article 3(3), point (d) and Article 3(3), point (e) of Article 3(3), point (d of CRR, point (f) of Article 1(1), point (f) of Article 3(3), point (f) of Article 3. Rules of
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1126	Thank you. I'll put your proposal to the vote when it's up to date. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the President of the Assembly on the basis of which she has determined that there are working conditions, whether the room is well cooled down, or whether there are enough journalists or on the basis of the quorum needed to determine the agenda. You've now established the agenda, and you can see that there are 124 MPs in the O.R. Article 86(5): "The quorum exists if at a session, when determining the agenda, there are at least 126 MPs present. "It's not like it's all the same to choose the government, one in four years, which we haven't had in a long time, but at least when the government chooses to be you at least 126 in the O.R. Don't make me think anyone here is avoiding voting for their government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1128	I would like to inform you that, since this is a special session, there is no agenda in line with the Rules of Procedure of this assembly. Thank you. You have received a proposal for a candidate for Prime Minister who is in agreement with Article 127(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic. You received the consent of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, a candidate for Prime Minister, to accept the candidacy in writing. In this way, and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they have obtained the conditions for the candidate for Prime Minister to present the programme to the National Assembly and to propose the composition of the Government, to open a search for a candidate for the Prime Minister, a programme for the Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government, and to determine the number of vice-presidents and ministers without portfolio in the Government, on a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister, and to elect the President, Vice-President and Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 99, paragraphs 1 and 125. Constitution and Article 10. The Government Act and that members of the Government swear an oath before the National Assembly. I ask Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, candidate for Prime Minister, to present his programme to the National Assembly and propose the composition of the government. Here you go. He has the word of candidate for Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1129	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, it is my honor to present a programme of the government that is made up of the coalition for European Serbia, the SPS coalition - PUPS - JS and a group of minority parties for the next four-year period, as well as to ask for your support for the implementation of the proposed programme. The key elements of the programme that are fully agreed on by all coalition members are: the definition of Serbia's European future, non-accepting the independence of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, the necessity of strengthening the economy, strengthening the government's social responsibility, strengthening the fight against crime and corruption and respect for international law. Full membership in the European Union is in the deepest interest of the Serbian state and of all its citizens. As Serbia enters the EU, it will become a full member of the European people's family, from which it has been excluded for a long time through unfortunate historical circumstances. Over the past seven and a half years, Serbia has implemented numerous reforms, bringing its political and economic system closer to EU countries' standards. However, on the way to Serbia's EU membership, it is necessary to implement a number of additional reforms, which will bring Serbia's legal order and economic system closer to EU standards in the next few years. Therefore, one of the first moves of the new government will be to refer to the National Assembly of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for ratification of Serbia. The government's goal is to speed up the economic and other reforms provided for in the agreement by the end of this year or early next year for Serbia to gain EU candidate status. The new government of the Republic of Serbia will adopt an Action Plan, whose realisation will ensure that the Republic of Serbia is fully prepared at the end of the government's mandate to join the EU. The definition of Serbia's entry into the EU is not contrary to our intention to continue to develop good political, economic and other relations with other countries of the world. That such a policy is possible, the best testimony is the practice of the current EU member states, some of which have very close relations with non-member countries. One of the priorities of the new government is further deepening and expanding Serbia's economic and political relations with the Russian Federation. In this direction, ratification of the gas deal with Gazprom in the Serbian Parliament will be one of the first legislative initiatives of the new government. In addition, we intend to propose to our Russian partners the expansion of duty-free trade, as well as the involvement of Russian investors in the realisation of infrastructure and other projects in Serbia. The Serbian government will seek to improve relations with the United States, with the goal of the world's greatest power in resolving disputes in the Balkans to a greater extent respecting the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. The Serbian government will also pay attention to developing economic and political relations with other countries of the world, and especially with China, India, as well as with countries of Mediterranean base and non-classified countries, with which we have successfully co-operated in the past. All coalition members are fully agreed that the new government of the Republic of Serbia will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, as well as that the government, in co-operation with other state bodies, will take all legal and diplomatic measures to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. In this sense, the new government will continue diplomatic activities, which aim to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence as few countries as possible. The government will also initiate re-launching negotiations with Kosovo Albanian representatives, with the aim of finding a mutually acceptable solution. In the realization of diplomatic initiatives to preserve Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, the government will, as so far, co-operate closely with the Russian Federation and all states that oppose or have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Compared to the diplomatic struggle to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, the new government will launch activities to survive the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as to improve its economic and social position. The 2008 budget rebalancing will provide the necessary funding for Kosovo and Metohija's territory. At the same time, the government will review the existing distribution mechanisms in Kosovo and Metohija to ensure a fairer distribution of funds and prevent false patriotism from conducting abuses and embezzlements. The need to strengthen the economy, with an increase in employment and a significant growth in investment, involves investment in infrastructure, while maintaining macroeconomic stability, which is the core of the government's economic programme. The government's main economic goals over the next four years are: a steady growth in economic activity, employment growth, an increase in Serbia's citizens' standards and a more balanced regional development. The preconditions for achieving these objectives are to strengthen macroeconomic stability, accelerate economic reforms, continue European integration, as well as significantly increase investment. The aim of the government of the Republic of Serbia is for gross domestic product to grow at about 7% annually over the next four years. The planned GDP growth rate is slightly above the average in the past three-year period. By increasing the real GDP level by about 30% over the next four years, it will reduce economic and social problems in Serbia and contribute to reducing the country's economic lagging relative to the regional and European environment. The government's second economic goal is to significantly increase employment over the next four years. Employment growth will be achieved by improving the economic environment, the growth of private and public investments, as well as by realising a series of direct incentives for employment. Realisation of planned activities will boost and deepen positive trends in the labour market in the previous year. The expected result is opening at least 200,000 new jobs over the next four years and reducing the unemployment rate from the current 18 to about 12%. The third objective of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to raise population standards and reduce regional and social differences in standards. The increase in standards will depend crucially on the successful achievement of the previous two economic policy objectives. The government's fourth objective in economics is to reduce regional differences in the level of development. In order to launch economic growth in underdeveloped regions, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will apply a wide range of incentive measures, such as the modernisation and construction of transport, energy and municipal infrastructure, the construction and modernisation of educational, cultural and sports facilities, the approval of tax incentives for investments in undeveloped areas, etc. A new law on regional development provides for the establishment of a fund for balanced regional development to be financed from the European pre-accession funds and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the possibility of dislocating certain state institutions in undeveloped areas will be considered. The basic prerequisite for achieving the above-mentioned economic objectives is to further strengthen macroeconomic stability. This primarily implies reducing inflation from the current level of around 12% annually to about 4% in 2012, as well as reducing current pay deficits from the current level of around 13% to about 8% in 2012. The achievement of these objectives requires a slowdown of domestic demand towards its alignment with the economic opportunities of the country. In particular, this means a gradual transition from the fiscal deficit to the fiscal surplus over the next two years. The second precondition for achieving economic objectives and speeding up reforms, which have been significantly focused over the past two years due to the long-term delays in the work of the Assembly and the lack of the adoption of reform laws. In this respect, within a relatively short time, the government will propose to the Assembly a number of legislative reforms, whose application should remove obstacles and strengthen incentives for entrepreneurial activities. The basic headings of economic reforms in the coming years are: the completion of the privatisation of social enterprises, state banks and insurance companies, the introduction of competition on markets of infrastructure and municipal activities and the launch of privatisation, the partial or complete, public enterprises operating therein, the abolition of unnecessary regulations making life difficult and the simplification of applicable rules, the increase of the efficiency of judicial authorities in resolving economic disputes and the more efficient implementation of bankruptcy procedures, the privatisation of state agricultural and construction land partially and in the context of the restitution process. Special attention will be paid to creating conditions for a free competition where all participants are equal, transaction costs are minimal and monopolies are adequately regulated. Reforms in economic areas will be followed by reforms in other segments of the state as well. Building a prosperous and competitive economy, which will compete equally on the world market, and in some sectors as a leader, requires qualified labour, professional engineers and managers, and scientists and researchers who are able to adopt and improve the latest scientific technological achievements. Raising the level of education, as well as the quality and applicability of research work, are priorities of the government in the coming period. The improvement of education and scientific research requires improved existing and new rules, the growth of state isolation, fiscal incentives for private activities in this area, as well as more intensive integration of educational and research institutions from Serbia with the world, and in particular with the European Union. The reforms of the state administration and local self-government plan to step up the education of employees and gradually introduce the model of electronic administration, with the principle of one counter wherever possible. Finally, there will be a functional analysis of jobs in the state and local administration with a view to their optimisation. In this connection, appropriate acts will be adopted to halt the practice of continued growth of the number of employees in the state administration. Elimination of unnecessary jobs in the state administration and local self-government will stop the process of growing a non-productive class of civil servants. It will work to reduce the wage range of civil servants and tenants now at 1:9. From one extreme to another, we seem to have moved on to another extreme - economic and socially unwarranted differences in the salary levels of government employees and local self-government. Reforming and strengthening the defence system, as an equally important task in the democratic transition process of the Republic of Serbia, will continue to build an efficient and economically sustainable defence system and build a modern, professional and efficient army. Also, priorities are the full participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Partnership for Peace and Democratic Control programmes of the military and other defence forces. The new government will speed up the process of adopting the National Security Strategy, the Defence Strategy, the Long-term Defence Development Plan, the Defence Review Strategy and the Defence Plan of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the adoption of laws that would complete the institutional framework to step up the pace of reform of the defence system. It is particularly important to step up the process of harmonisation of legislation with European Union standards. Stable funding of the defence system is crucial for the accelerated process of modernising and equipping the Serbian Army and strengthening its capacities, with support for international peace and stability. In order to strengthen overall stability and security, it is important to continue co-operation with the international forces and institutions of the UN in Kosovo and Metohija within UN Security Council Resolution 1244. The security of the Republic of Serbia is inseparable from the security of the European space. Hence, developing good relations with key factors of global, European and regional security, and in particular with neighbours, is a priority of the defence policy of the Republic of Serbia. The accelerated continuation of European integration will have a multiple positive impact on Serbia's economy. Companies and economic operators will get the possibility of duty-free exports of products to the market of more than 450 million inhabitants. The possibility of using pre-accession EU funds will help address social, regional and sectoral problems, which will act incentivically on Serbia's economy. Serbia's entry into the EU accession process will contribute to increasing foreign direct investment, not only from EU member states, but also from other countries. The definition of EU entry will reduce the country's risk, affecting the improvement of Serbia's credit rating and thus reducing interest rates for Serbian businesses and the state of Serbia's global financial market. The achievement of the high growth rate of gross domestic product in the coming years will be based dominantly on the construction of new and essential modernisation of existing economic capacities. It is therefore necessary to increase investment in GDP from the current 22% to 26% to 28% in 2012. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in co-operation with local self-government, will develop a special programme of incentives for major investment in pro-pulsive industrial sectors, such as automotive industry, electronics, information technologies and telecommunications. Attracting several crown investments in these activities would have an impact on increasing economic activity, the development of a network of cooperatives, employment growth, exports, as well as on attracting new foreign direct investments. Besides industry, agriculture is also a significant business branch for Serbia. It is therefore important to define an adequate agrarian policy, which should respond to the need to improve the situation in this area. To deal properly with the challenges and obstacles that international integration brings, above all with Serbia's obligation to the World Trade Organisation and the EU, it is of paramount importance to focus all potentials on strengthening the competitiveness of agricultural production while preserving natural resources. Care for the overall sustainable development of rural space must be the imperative of today and the future. In addition, the next period plans to accelerate the start and launch of new larger infrastructure projects, including the most important: the completion of highway construction and the modernisation of railways on corridor 10, the start of highway construction towards the southern Adriatic, the expansion and modernisation of the network of regional roads, the modernisation of corridor 7, the start of the construction of the South Stream pipeline in co-operation with Gazprom, etc. In the next period, reconstruction of existing and construction of new irrigation systems is planned. Realisation of public investment in the area of infrastructure will directly contribute to an increase in economic activity in the coming years, and the built modern infrastructure will work in a long time on private investments and thus on economic growth. Large infrastructure projects will be financed from regular budget revenues, favourable loans from international financial institutions, EU funds, foreign direct investment and the like. One of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be to strengthen social responsibility towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia in order to improve the living and working conditions of all citizens, especially the most vulnerable categories of the population. The government's goal is to make the largest layers of the population participate in the results of economic progress in the coming years. We also want to build a society where all citizens will have a chance of progress on the social scale. In such a society, free higher education will be available to all hardworking students and students, free healthcare guaranteed to all poor citizens, and all Serbian citizens will be protected from extreme poverty. Serbia's rapid economic progress will increase opportunities to hire and resolve housing issues of young people and represent the best defense for their departure abroad. Systematic concern for young people is the condition of Serbia's economic, cultural and overall social development. As part of promoting healthy lifestyles, governments will work on popularising sports, as well as on equipment, adaptation, reconstruction and construction of sports facilities across Serbia's territory. The establishment of gender equality is an important step in the civilizational advancement of our society. The government will ensure the institutional equality of women in the country's economic and political life and sanction any form of discrimination against them. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government has prepared a package of measures to contribute to improving the social situation of all vulnerable populations: unemployed, pensioners, families with children, rural nursing households, etc., making sure that the interests of all social groups are respected in a balanced manner, without jeopardising macroeconomic stability and rapid economic growth. The government of the Republic of Serbia plans to increase pensions by 10% by September 2008 at the latest and to adopt amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act by the end of 2008, which would introduce an indexation of pensions towards earnings during 2009 and define the dynamics of increasing the average pension ratios and average earnings to a maximum of 70% in line with the country's economic and fiscal opportunities. In order to stop unfavourable demographic tendencies, the government will allocate additional funds to help families with small children, lay down regulations to protect the position of employees, pregnant women and maternity women and provide subsidies to couples with children in resolving the housing issue. Also, measures will be adopted to ensure the social security of rural nursing households. Continuing, expanding and tightening the fight against all forms of crime and corruption are the necessary conditions for the consolidation of the rule of law and for the functioning of the market economy. In the context of the construction of the rule of law, the appropriate place will also have the security of state and civil society co-operation mechanisms. An effective fight against corruption and crime requires the adoption of new laws, such as the law on freezing and confiscation of property acquired by corruption and crime, which will be proposed to the Assembly as soon as possible. In addition, it is necessary to include provisions in a number of other laws and sublaws to remove the sources of corruption. This primarily implies the reduction and regulation of discretionary powers of state authorities in the approval of various permits, consent, giving opinions, etc. In this respect, it is necessary for all of the above activities to strictly define the procedures and set short deadlines in which they must be completed. In the context of the fight against corruption, a legal obligation will be introduced for all state officials at the republican and local level, heads of state institutions, public enterprises, public information on the property they possess. The adoption of new legal provisions will be proposed under which, in the event of the detection of corruption, other than the intended criminal responsibility, state officials would be permanently prohibited from dealing with politics, while civil sector employees who participated in corruption would be permanently banned from working in the state sector. In order to effectively combat corruption, it is necessary to train national authorities that play a key role in the fight against those deviating phenomena. In this respect, adequate equipment and training of police, prosecutors and courts are needed to fight corruption and crime. Police reform aims to increase the personal and property security of citizens, preserve the stability of public order and peace and maintain the country's favourable state of security. Police priority tasks in the coming period are - the fight against organised crime, including economic crime, the effective lighting of criminal acts, the prevention of attempts to destabilise society and the repression of hooliganism. It is of particular importance to improve police work to strengthen internal control mechanisms, curb corruption and cut ties to organised crime. All security services will be subject to civilian control. Police reform will also include more efficient management activities in its jurisdiction, such as personal identification documents, vehicle registration, etc. The new identification documents will be developed in line with the latest technological solutions, which will meet one of the most important conditions for our country's entry on the White Schengen list. The reforms of the judiciary will be accelerated, with the aim of building an effective and independent judiciary and prosecution and strengthening the rule of law and legal certainty. The achievement of this goal involves the adoption of a series of laws that will be regulated by the judicial system in line with the European standards and interests of Serbian citizens. I only mention some of them, these are -- the law on judges, the law on the regulation of courts, the law on the high council of the judiciary, the law on the public prosecutor's office, the law on public records, the law on the confiscation of property benefits, as well as a number of other laws governing the judicial system and sanctioning crimes in the areas of high-tech crime, terrorism, money laundering, human trafficking, sexual abuse, etc. The judicial reform will establish a new network of courts and prosecutors, which will include criminal and appeals courts, as well as an administrative court for the entire territory of Serbia. It is essential to have a strong political commitment to the uncompromising and non-selective fight against corruption and crime. In this case alone, employees of state authorities, whose jurisdiction is to detect and sanction those crimes, will be prepared to make every effort to fight corruption and crime. The new government of the Republic of Serbia will continue its policy of strict respect for international law and immediate reconciliation of all international obligations. Only in this way can our country become a full and respected member of the international community. As it will respect international law itself, the government will ask others to do the same. Insisting on respect for international rights by other countries is a key backdrop in our fight for the preservation of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. Also, in the case of the International Court of War Crimes in The Hague, the government of Republika Srpska has insisted that all crimes be treated equally. that there are no less valuable victims and privileged criminals. High cultural range, even in the most difficult times, is one of the recognizable features of Serbia in the world. In the coming years, the government of the Republic of Serbia will seek to contribute financially and in other ways to the affirmation of creativity and creativity in the area of culture. Special attention will be paid to modernising cultural institutions, preserving cultural heritage, including global cultural flows, raising the quality of media production and harmonising regulation with European standards. Finally, I want to point out that the project of the new government that I have exposed is actually a project of a better life, with the preservation of the speciality and dignity of all citizens living in Serbia. Its realisation will provide greater profits, bigger pensions, greater social responsibility, greater employment opportunities, less corruption, building a basic infrastructure and achieving a stronger position of the country to defend its sovereignty. I urge all citizens, as well as state bodies and organizations, to participate fully in the realisation of these great goals. At the end of the term, everyone will have the opportunity to bring the court in on the success of the government's work. That court should be given on the basis of facts, not prejudice. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to finally propose to you the following composition of the government: First Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Ivica Dacic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technological Development Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobic, Minister of Foreign Affairs Vuk Jeremic, Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, Minister of Finance Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Justice Snezana Malović, Minister of Agriculture, Forest and Water Management Sasa Dragin, Minister of Defence Petar Škundric, Minister of Defence, Minister for Infrastructure Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of State Administration and Local Government Milan Marković, Minister of Trade and Services of the Ministry of Education and Energy Petar Škundrić, Minister of Education and Minister of Health and Minister of Security, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Croatia and Minister of Croatia, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister for the Republic of Kosovo, Minister for the Republic of Kosovo, Minister for the Republic of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Ministers and Minister for the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Kosovo, Ministers and Minister of the Republic of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Ministers and Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of the Republic, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1130	Thank you. We heard a program and a proposal for the government's composition, submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, a candidate for Prime Minister. I'm setting a 60-minute break, and then we'll get back to work. Thank you. [[After break – 12.00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The president of the DSS-NS parliamentary group, Mr Milos Aligrudic, has proposed that the time of debate for parliamentary groups last for 10 hours. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 164, against one, six of the 171 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is ten hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group - 3 hours, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary group For European Serbia - 3 hours, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - NS - Vojislav Kostunica - 1 hour and 12 minutes; the G17 - 57 minutes and 36 seconds; the MP group of the SPS coalition - PUPS - JS - 48 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 31 minutes and 12 seconds and the minority parliamentary group - 16 minutes and 48 seconds. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not already done so, they shall file a statement with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 191 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a candidate programme for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1132	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, today we have had the opportunity to listen to the exposés of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, from whom we were able to learn a lot, except for a clear, firm and certain policy of the future government. It's the only thing you can't see from that exposé. And there's a reason. The fact that Mirko Cvetkovic is the prime minister for the composition of this new government, in fact, speaks in itself about the character of the government, with the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister himself is Ivica Dacic, someone who has more authority in the DS than Mirko Cvetkovic himself, clearly says that this government should be ruled by someone else, not by the Prime Minister himself, regardless of the golden voice that this assembly gave him. This government, in fact, needs to be ruled from another centre, from the cabinet of the president of the state, i.e. This government needs to be managed personally by Boris Tadic, either alone, or through his man of the highest confidence in this government, and this is Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, as a man of greater political experience and greater political profiling than the prime minister. Boris Tadic will thus make it clear that the government is not at all disappointed and uninterrupted by any internal competition with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is clearly seen from the list of ministers, for which I am obviously the prime minister is not at all guilty, because this government's mandate was not even drawn up, this government was composed by Boris Tadic, with a consultation with Cameron Manter, Steven Woodsworth, Bek, Miskovic and who knows who else, except for the consultation with the mandater, Mr Cvetkovic. The government was created after several days of public negotiations. These negotiations have the consequence of not creating a strong national government, governments of a specific political programme and a clear goal, but these negotiations have a distribution of functions by portfolios in this government. It's a division of functions, not a clear and certain state policy. It's the result of this government's assembling. When it comes to a clear national responsible policy, it will be left for some other time, for some other political entities in this country. Boris Tadic, by assembling such a government, will not be threatened not only from the inside, but also from the outside. None of his political partners in this government can compromise the positions of this government, regardless of political or personal irresponsibility when it comes to the distribution of functions and grammar, so there are guarantees of the survival of this government outside this building of the National Assembly, which are also located outside the building of the government itself. These guarantees of the survival of the government are also out of this country, and some of them are tycoons sitting in this country and, in practice, affecting both the composition of the government and its future work. Because of all this, this government has a great chance of achieving its full mandate. In that case, Boris Tadic can be completely calm. Ministers are known in this government, but the state policy of this government is unknown. As the prime minister is an inconclusive political figure, it can already be assumed that someone else will take over those powers both the prime minister and the government itself of the Republic of Serbia, which it has under the Constitution, which is to run state policy. In Article 125. The constitution states: "The Prime Minister leads and directs the government's work, takes care of the government's uniform political functioning, harmonizes the work of government members and represents the government." Is it possible to believe Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic would do this? No, I don't. It's completely off. A man who does not have the political authority to run the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot even perform his post under Article 2 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What is Serbia's state policy in this case? We found no answer to that question about the exposé of the prime minister for the government's composition. If Mirko Cvetkovic is guilty of anything, who knows what it is, he may not be guilty of anything, but certainly not guilty of the education of this government, how much purpose does it have to consider the exposés of Mirko Cvetkovic, how much does he have to ask personally for all the indeterminations of this exposé, for the contradictions that can be found in the exposé, for the deliberately abandoned parts of this exposé, which should answer the key questions that are now being asked in front of Serbia, and not that the prime minister in his exposé is making it as if certain dangers that have prevailed over this country are only somewhere in a distant way, as if they are not happening today? What's the point of all this? He may be a good economist, he may be an expert in the wrong place, but he is not a political figure that can connect into a unique political continent the government of the Republic of Serbia and its minister. Simply, when it comes to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, that cannot be the case. It'll obviously work for someone else instead. It will obviously work, Boris Tadic, and if he can't make his presidential commitments just to get into every detail, it will make his extended hand in the government of the Republic of Serbia and a man of the highest confidence Mr. Ivica Dacic. So, politics will be counter-sustained by Boris Tadic, and this government will technically be led by Mr Mirko Cvetkovic as a technical government. In this sense, it will not, in its essence, differ from that formal technical government that existed from the time of the election to today. However, because of the public and respect for the National Assembly, although I am obviously the president of the state, Boris Tadic, does not respect this assembly at all, we must ask some questions to which we expect the answer, whoever it is that I came from, even if someone whispered to Mr. Mirk Cvetkovic that these questions should be answered. First we'll talk about what's not in the Prime Minister's exposé, and given the moment we live in, it has to be. First of all, whether there is a term to protect the territorial integrity of the state, because in these mantras, these key elements of the programme are referred to so-called. not accepting the independence of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. What does not accept independence mean? How do you interpret that? Where is this protection of the territorial integrity of the state? Where is this obligation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to act in accordance with the resolutions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state? Where is this policy? Is it incorporated by the government, which was the agreed state policy, or is something fundamentally changing in this regard? What about EULEX? What about the EULEX mission, a European mission that is nothing more than supporting Ahtisaari's plan, which again means Kosovo and Metohija's independence. What is the attitude towards the reconfiguration of the UN mission if EULEX is introduced in a small way? This exposure doesn't mention that kind of challenge. It speaks extremely casually of our determination towards international obligations and of Resolution 1244. We, ladies and gentlemen, have a certain challenge right now and the least he had to do is have the new government's mandate to give us an answer to that question in its exposé. That's a significant question. Furthermore, as the prime minister thinks, he imagines the new government, and this is not a question for him, but for someone else, apparently, that he thinks he's overcoming the problem of respecting the signatures and still unwarranted Stabilisation and Association Agreements, when it comes to regional co-operation and good neighbourly relations. When we know that 20 EU countries that have recognised our southern province's independence expect us to have good neighbourly relations with the same agreement with Kosovo. What is the view of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards newly formed Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija after the May 11th elections? There is no word on the relation of the Serb assembly in Kosovo and Metohija. There are no words on the establishment of new institutions. Nothing about it. Well, I guess that's some sort of theme that should've been skipped. She is not interested in Boris Tadic and his poor transmission of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. What will the government do specifically, apart from being said in the exposé, we will take all diplomatic and legal measures to preserve the territorial integrity of the state, what exactly are we going to do? We have seen in the past that certain activities are done in that plan. What about the ambassadors who were withdrawn? What about the lawsuits of the international court of those states that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija? What about the attempt to integrate the UN system of newly formed Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija? What's up with that? What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards sending our troops on an international military mission? What about the issue of military neutrality? I know that we differed about it, since the difference was dramatic, it was shown from the fall of last year, and I'm surprised there's no reference to that topic. What is the government's relationship to the investments that have been discussed so much, such as the Horgos-Požega highway, and how does this financial structure close, since it's all gone? What's the relationship to Corridor 10? That's big stuff. That's not mentioned in the exposé. It is a socially responsible policy, pensions are mentioned and there is no mention of how this issue will really be resolved in fact, and from what the pensions were said in the exposé itself, there is nothing, nor does it claim that anything was promised when it comes to increasing pensions. There is some annual harmonisation that is ultimately foreseen by the 2007 budget and in which it would all be achieved at a similar level, as envisaged here. When it comes to harmonising 70% of next year's earnings, you can't even see the mechanism. How the social component of the government will be achieved, when the programme only talks about this in an inconclusive way, and nothing else is talked about in a concrete way when it comes to other social users. What about the state apparatus? What about civil servants' salaries? Are we going to make out of them a poor layer of society, which should be subject to the widest form of corruption? These are all the questions that we can and should ask the future government of the Republic of Serbia, which we did not get a concrete answer to in the exposé itself. These and a number of questions will be discussed by DSS-NS MPs in their presentations. Simply, these questions we have no answer are the best evidence that Serbia has not received a responsible national government, but that this government is obviously composed outside the cabinet, outside the National Assembly, outside the government of the Republic of Serbia, even outside the political parties that make it, probably from Washington. The government received a gift from Serbia downgraded by part of its territory and that its primary task is to do what is necessary in the coming period to simply, this new fact, legalise itself in the domestic legal order over time and in a way that many people do not realize in time. You know how, ladies and gentlemen of the congregation, there should be no illusion. You can fool yourself into this job you're doing, and you can't fool the citizens of Serbia. You can just try, but not for long. The government will last as soon as possible, it is a greater happiness for the citizens of Serbia and this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1133	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the Liberal Democratic Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1134	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Cvetkovic, I believe that the only thing that was more difficult for you during the exposé was from the Members of Parliament who listened to those exposés. And not only because of the circumstances in which you become Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, but also because of all the facts that describe you as a man who, in his former work, has so far profiled that it is very difficult to recognize you as Prime Minister, and to ignore the fact that as finance minister, first of all, as one of the people who carried reforms in the first democratic government, the government of Zoran Djindjic, has left a deep mark. It doesn't work out with each other, and the compromises that come first of all from the fact that no one has an answer to a question that the government would be better than this under the current circumstances. It's a crucial not alibi, but the quality that you have on your side in this debate. Whoever shows up at the critical position before challenging something that's questionable in itself and what's so obvious, has to say what's the alternative. We from the LDP do not see that alternative at this time, because it is not an acceptable alternative for us, the one that stood as a threat and the possibility that Serbia faced after 11 May through Mr Kostunica's re-election option and thus a continuity policy with the previous two governments. But it's not enough to get support for one of these plans, because we are in this situation not by accident, but by all means because it's the result of a political project that has been implemented in society for years. Through the policy of cohabitation and coalition, it is practically to this extent that our political everyday life has been devised that everyone today has the right to ask a question that no one gets a clear answer: how will this country change if there are no clear rules on the one hand of these internal reforms, and on the other hand there are no visions and plans. Everything in your exposé, Mr. Cvetkovic, is subject to serious criticism and unfortunately there is no argument that at least for us from the LDP would be acceptable. This is not the first government to be elected in Serbia's parliament, but this is the first government to have a deputy prime minister, Mr. Dacic. This is the first government to function, among other things, through the established principle of golden voice. This is not the first government to face misunderstandings in the region, with internal divisions, it is not the first government to want Serbia to lead to the EU and this is not the first government to meet certain conditions and criteria on the road. But this is the first government that has no power to call The Hague, but to co-operate with The Hague's tribunal hides behind the principle of respect for international law. This is a government that, after all the mistakes seen in the previous government, does not have the strength to accept the reality and change the political course that our society is moving in the process of refusing to respect reality through non-acceptance of the independence of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija in a way that is completely unthinkable. This is not the first government to fight crime and corruption, but this is a government that was expected more, at least in an exposé. This is not the first government to want to boost the economy, but this is a government that has to tell society what the previous governments didn't have the strength to say. So, if we look at Serbia's future in this way, then it is right that those who say that this will actually be a government that will be halfway between the constitution of a defined role and the political right resulting from the support received by the President of the Republic. It is true that we are getting a semi-presidential system, something that might be equal to the political practice of which the French Republic is arranged. It can be criticised, but it deserves some kind of understanding, even support. It is good that the President of the Republic assumes responsibility and does so in this way. The President of the Republic is a person who should answer the question that Serbia will achieve its European future unless it has the strength to answer the question why so far this future has not become a reality. How will Serbia solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija when it is obvious that Kosovo and Metohija are going their own way and that today is beyond Serbia than was the case in February when Kosovo declared independence? How will an economy be strengthened in such a devastated society as ours? How will the social role of the government you speak of be fulfilled when you potential social responsibility and offer more than the charity that the state offers to those it has destroyed? How are we going to fight crime and corruption if on the one hand the role of the state is strengthened in the economy, and on the other hand, if there is no willingness to look back on what is the root of crime in our society, which is actually the country that was created during the 1990s and which was the only one that could achieve its policy by criminal means? It is not likely that in this term the government will also fight against the bankruptcy, road, forest, sports, construction, educational mafia, without having the strength to turn to the side the government must be facing if it wants to change that situation in our society, that there is no power to look at the policy that is being achieved through crime. Before any analysis of this exposé, we need to get an answer to the question, which has been so many times put public since 11 May to this day. The government that is being made is a government that is not committed to the political principle on which governments in the world are being created today. That's the principle of efficiency. Instead, you offered us some principle of ethics, the thesis of national reconciliation. You didn't say that, Mr. Cvetkovic, but the two coalitions forming this government will sign a national reconciliation document during the week. Is it just a front for the formation of this coalition or is it really an expression of the readiness of two policies to overcome the divisions that exist in our society? If so, then we must get an answer from you, Mr. Cvetkovic or from representatives of the parties forming this government. What do they mean by national reconciliation? What needs to be reconciled in Serbia? How do they plan to do that? We've said a lot in the debate so far about the return of the SPS to power. You're the one who set it up. You're proposing to us Mr. Dacic, president of the SPS, as Deputy Prime Minister. For the first time, one such institution has been introduced in our policy of life. It's a big right, but a big commitment. Is Mr. Dacic the president of the old SPS or is he the president of the new SPS? If the president of the new SPS that reformed and changed, what was wrong with the old politics, can we hear that? If it is silent because it is politically useful at the moment, I must remind you of something you yourself wrote in your own exhibition, referring to seven and a half years of reforms in Serbia. These reforms are unsuccessful not because the people who implemented them did not want them to succeed, but because the reforms cannot begin as they started in October 2000, by turning a new page in our social life and ignoring everything that actually destroyed Serbia and not allowing it to change today. It is not a mere insistence on some moral principles, and it is not a lack of argument, it is a fundamental political issue that Serbia should at this time get a response from its government. What was wrong with our society? What's wrong with our institutions? What's wrong with our daily efforts, when our country is like this, unhappy, divided and tragically away from that standard that everyone who lives in it should probably welcome? It is a life worthy of a normal and orderly, European-defined citizen, who has a law-abiding state behind him, who has laws that make his life come true and who can count on a government that will have the strength to help him solve those problems that he cannot solve, not a government that will produce problems for him with its incompetence. That's why it's so hard to talk about your government. You didn't go out with any concrete projects. I don't know how anyone's gonna be able to explain the support he's giving you. If you seek support for the arrest of Ratko Mladic, you will receive it. If you're looking for support to cancel a harmful concession agreement on the highway, you'll get it. If you seek support for the revisions of the Energy Agreement with the Russian Federation, you will get it because the agreement was made in a bad way. If you're looking for support for redefinition of our international external position, you'll get it. But these general places in your exposé don't actually offer anything concrete and that's why we can't give you unreserved support. You were obliged to tell us what was actually behind the phrase about the formation of unfortunate historical circumstances that had long excluded us from the family of European peoples. This is also too easy to explain what happened in Serbia and in the premises of the former Yugoslavia since 1990, so practically until October 2000. In some segments, this life continued despite the changes that took place in 2000. They are not unfortunate historical circumstances, it is a whole series of wrong political decisions that stemmed from the awkwardness and weakness of our society to change, and when we talk about Kosovo, and when we talk about Republika Srpska, and when we talk about Montenegro, and when we talk about Croatia, when we talk about our relationship with our other neighbours. It is not the position in which Serbia is interpreted exclusively as an expression of unfortunate historical circumstances, but rather a logical product of a policy that has been conducted and policies that are not spoken of today, or you do not want to do so. Now, that's what we need to talk about. Let us set very clear frameworks in which our society can be changed and then say that we are ready to support, together with you, all those changes that can be supported. When the President of the Republic appointed you prime minister, we congratulated him and told him that there was a very difficult job ahead of you, and that's how it is. It's got to be understood that May 11th. We wanted to admit it or not, and that day society showed greater strength and seriousness than the policy on which society declared itself on that day. What is the key message of your exposé? The Prime Minister we voted for in 2001 offered society changes. If something was said about society in 2008 in 11 May, then the society said it wanted to continue those changes and reforms symbolising politics and the government of Zoran Djindjic. It is true that the government also heard about the truth that Serbia described as a society that was politically, economically and morally destroyed. It is true that one way to overcome such a state of coalition and partnership with some parties from the past, which in the meantime have become quite close to that official and official policy. They're not socialists by themselves. You wrote the Constitution with them, you formulated Kosovo politics with them, you've worked with them so far in local self-government and there's no need to avoid such a political truth. Serbia has the strength to understand the fact that if it is explained to society in a very clear way, that is the fact that the Socialists make your preferred partners. What you have done in creating that government, through the concessions you have given, it is your right, and Dacic as deputy president, and Dacic as police minister, and Mr Obradovic as Minister of Education, and Mr Skundric as Minister of Mining and Energy, and Mr Mr Mrkonjic as Minister of Infrastructure, you have received support in the elections and you take responsibility for the efficiency of that government. It is our obligation as a party that is not a priority to you, but as a party that wants to do a job in Serbia is to tell you what the problems we see are already at the beginning. Your government is not a government that is made up of people who enter politics for the first time. In this government is Vice-President Djelic, who has been in the affairs of European integration in the Kostunica cabinet. In this government, the minister of agriculture is an environmental minister from the previous government. The minister of agriculture from the previous government is the minister of trade in this government. In this government, you have joined the Ministry of Ecology and Spatial Planning. That doesn't make sense. You've separated traffic, telecommunications and infrastructure. That doesn't make sense. It then slows you down in the jobs you want to do, and the threshold of patience and tolerance in our society is also too low and it will not be good for our society if your government offers two, three or six months to society the fact that the president is not called Kostunica but Cvetkovic. It's a change that we can see in the most concrete way right now. It was enough for the first days after 11 May and we consider it progress, but it is not enough if it is talked about the needs of our society. Those needs are very clear. Serbia must get an answer to the kind of problem that you bypass by sending society the truth that is acceptable to society. Everyone in Serbia is in favour of strengthening the economy, and so are the Radicals, both the Liberal Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, absolutely everyone. Everyone in Serbia is down from 18% to 11. Everyone in Serbia is for the growth of gross social product, but why has this not been achieved today? You were the finance minister in the previous government. You yourself spoke about a budget deficit of nearly half a billion euros. We can't ignore the fact that we're part of the world, even when we don't want to be. At the moment the Simmons releases 18,000 workers, the America Airlines 8000, the Unicredit Bank 9,000, we cannot push our heads into the sand and raise society in the way you do, by declaring those goals that are acceptable to everyone, but at this point unreal to our country. If we want to change Serbia, we need to affirm work, knowledge, we need to affirm, among other things, and honesty, and these are topics that nothing is said about in your exposé. Serbia works 45 minutes a day on average. How is such a country going to get to that goal you defined and put before us here in parliament asking us to support you for such a thing? Yes, we support you in your European efforts, but where are these European efforts through the concrete moves and policy that you will be pulling. If we're talking about foreign policy, it's a good thing you're announcing an improvement in relations with the United States. It would be very important for you to tell us what you mean by that. What exactly does that sentence mean where you say you're going to try to improve relations with the United States? Does that mean we're gonna get the ambassadors back? How will America understand us if we don't talk to her? What does a story in which you, describing the state of our society, speak through the government's social responsibility about a new engagement and partnership with the NGO sector? Does this mean that you will pass the law here in parliament, in which we will finally address the issue of the position of the NGO sector in our community? Your strategic directions are acceptable to us, but they have no content. The definition of Serbia's European future was never controversial, but the road to that European Serbia seemed controversial at all times. Are we going to Europe in the way that you have defined through this exposé, as a country that refuses to accept the fact that most of that Europe to which we are going has made clear what it thinks about Kosovo and Metohija or in this Europe we are going through to get through that Europe to Kosovo and Metohija in the way that we are being disabled today? Do we go to Europe by accepting EULEX, which currently guards Serbs in Kosovo and who take care of them, or do we go by disputed EULEX? This is very important because without answering these questions, we cannot support your efforts to make Serbia a European country and a European Union member perspective. If we put your government before us, then you were obliged to answer our question whether it was a government that had to be made this way? We assume it is, but you were obliged to tell Serbia that, let's say, your coalition partner, the SPS, made a decision to be a pro-European party the moment he got what he asked of you, to stay in the coalition with Kostunica. Or you were obliged to say that you are doing these concessions because no one but the SPS can do such a good job. In both cases, we would have some sort of understanding of what you're talking about, but we can't have an understanding of ignoring and crossing over such obvious political gaps that are visible in your exposé. Serbia needs national reconciliation, but not the kind of national reconciliation most often spoken of in the last few days, not a fig leaf that gives some new meaning to the coalition you are making. Serbia needs the kind of national reconciliation that will open up the possibility of normal co-operation and communication with Albanians, with Bosniaks, with Croats, with Americans, with the French, with the world surrounding us. You are political representatives of 40% of the citizens who voted in this election. No one in the May 11th election asked you to do that. You were asked for political efficiency and to solve some problems, bringing the "Fiyat" to Kragujevac, for example, to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. But in addition to the ratification you're talking about, you're obliged to say when this agreement will come into effect, i.e. when Ratko Mladic will be arrested. And when you arrest him, you have a duty to tell Serbia why he's being arrested, is it because that's how we pay the price of our European future or because it's the only way to change what's wrong in our community and that has led us as a country to the International Court of Justice in The Hague on charges of genocide. We can go around something like that, but those questions will be waiting for us in some new congregation convention. Serbia will...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1135	Time, 21 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1136	Did you double the argument?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1137	It's not about the heads of parliament, it's only about the debate. Keep going, but you've overstepped one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1138	So far, there's been a rule that a double debate applies... That's what you had to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1139	We've already voted, we've made our point. You don't mind finishing up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1140	Thanks, you had to mention that at the beginning, then you wouldn't be dealing with an exposé analysis like this. I think it is clear that the debate will also analyse the character of your ministries, which is done in the debate on government and ministry law, and that a lot will be said about your political goals. The most important question is for us, and we expect you to answer it: what deadlines will you come up with with concrete plans and ask for support for them? When you talk about continuing privatisation, whether privatization of public enterprises is partial or complete, it is very important to us. When you talk about reforming our society, do you have the strength to talk about constitutional reform? You didn't mention Vojvodina once. That's the problem. It is offensive to explain the importance of young people in our society. They do not go from Serbia because they live in that other place better than because they have a chance in another place that they lose, among other things, with a superficial attitude towards their problems. As for the fight against corruption and crime, we expect the state to withdraw from the economy, politicians from the boards of directors. And a big task for Mr. Dacic, we expect you to arrest the remaining participants in the murder of Zoran Djindjic. They're five years after the assassination of the Prime Minister is still at large. Some of them were arrested in the action "Sabbe" five years ago, others escaped and from that moment until today they are an insult to our society and a great proof of our police incompetence. That's the obligation you have to answer, and we're asking you to. If you need support in this, you are looking for, you will have the support of the Liberal Democratic Party, but we expect the MUP to arrest the people responsible for the murder of the Prime Minister, who are still at large. As far as the courts are concerned, Mr Cvetkovic, we expect re-election of judges and through re-election of judges, we practically want that project to be implemented which was not allowed through the application of the Law on Lustration. We do not want in our judiciary judges who have been legalizing Milosevic's lawlessness. We don't want prosecutors in V.D. condition. You didn't mention the media. We want to depolitize the media. Among other things, we also want to break the practice of abuse of institutions established in our society, which are essentially politicised and which are a front for full party control. First of all, we are referring to the board of directors of the public service and the people at the head of the public service, who are there as political commissioners of the previous government and politics, not as professional persons who will meet the needs of our society. Are we going to vote for you or not? We will be reserved because there is no unreserved support for such general political ideas. When you ask for concrete support for a concrete job, we will make it clear, but the blank support for LDP is unacceptable. Not just because you made a government with socialists, because that magneticism of the past we have to get rid of it, but you don't have a clear vision or if you have a clear vision of it you haven't talked about here. The lack of this clear vision and general places do not allow us to give you that support that we would very much like to provide to any government that wants to change Serbia. Because the jobs that we have to do in this society are jobs that exceed any party and business that commit this parliament to be serious and responsible. Partnership is what Serbia needs today, a political partnership, but not a political partnership, but a partnership that will finally benefit our society, not a policy of cohabitation and coalition, but a policy of clean bills. These accounts are gone now, we don't see them, and that's why we don't think we're paying them with the support we got through the vote of 220,000 citizens. We will be a serious opposition to any effort you make to implement such a policy in the future, and we will be your partners in every intention to finally bring Serbia closer to the goal you are talking about here: the European future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1141	The president of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this concept we see what the Government wants, we just don't see how. This is the manner of every government of yours, to write out beautiful wishes that could immediately be put up by not only all MPs, but all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Write down a list of good wishes, what should be done, what you'd like done, of course we'll talk about order, about the importance of talking, but I don't see you in the realization of this program. They're all saying the prime minister doesn't have authority. Yeah, he's gone, but Boris Tadic didn't need a man of authority. Boris Tadic thinks the only man in Serbia who needs authority is Boris Tadic. We're talking about the minister's authority, they don't have it. The only authority in Serbia is Boris Tadic. When he puts together a government like this, when he puts it together in this way, then it is clear that the only authority in this entire ruling coalition is Boris Tadic. And, of course, this G17 cancer party, which again with its long-term positive performance in a year, at most two, will eat this government, feed well and move to eat some new government, should it be drawn together by the EU, America and others. What can be resented by the concept of government? Anyone who provides 126 MPs makes the concept of government. The opposition may warn that something will not be good, that something is not moral, that something is not on principles, that something cannot recognize from the past those who presently represent the concept, but cannot affect what the government is going to do, nor can today affect whether this government is formed or not. We tried to influence it not to be formed, the citizens showed in the elections that they wanted a different government, one government of yellow, one government of Serbian radicals, the others pleaded in one way or another, but here, you see, there was a crossover, a transition, there was a conflict of ideology and power. The government always seems to defeat ideology, and that's how we're going to get a new power today that ideology is the sole authority. I don't want to talk here about the DS coalition partners, I'm going to talk about them from Monday, because I'm still counting on this to be one attempt that I don't like, which didn't endanger the morale of all of us in Serbia to the point where we won't be able to recognize each other anymore. Let's see what Mr. Cvetkovic has told us, if you wrote this, Mr. Cvetkovic, looks like this one over there, this castle camel of Tadic, it all looks like their handwriting to me. I recognize even their expressions. So, for you, the commitment to the European future is Serbia's primary goal. A man could agree that Serbia is not in a difficult situation, in which we only talk about the definition of Serbia's European future is not enough, because it feels like you're hiding something from us. Carefully considering this report can establish what you are hiding, several negative moves that the government will make, several moves opposed to decisions made by the National Assembly that the government will make. And it can't all be hidden under the promise that in how many countries we don't know, I don't know how many hundred million euros of exports we're doing without the customs duty of our products. Of course, the smallest part of this is dedicated to our production. Your economic logic is based on two premises - get in charge and sell. They are firmly embedded in this new government programme, and we will continue to be in debt, and we will continue to sell, even to the extent that the new candidate for Prime Minister resents that state banks and insurance companies are not already privatised. Who privatizes banks and insurance companies with us? Foreigners, mostly Slovenians. So, in part, he resents that we have not already become some banana republic under the financial control of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a little bit of market control, even if they're completely mixed up in the financial sector. The definition of Serbia's European future, and even say somewhere, must become clear -- a definitive commitment to EU accession will reduce the country's risk. Didn't this assembly deliver a resolution four years ago that defined it for EU accession? Who bothered you these four years to carry out the decisions of your congregation, with your majority? The majority's deputies made a government twice after that. Who are you asking now to definitely prove to you that he wants to join the EU? That's what the Serbian Parliament did to you. You are still seducing us that we should definitely declare to you that we want to join the EU. Those who have come to you are already doubtful, and they already doubt your good intentions for the EU. How long can we endure all this that is happening in the country, because each of you will say here - our goal is to join the EU, we will employ 200,000 people, we will increase the gross social product, we will increase the participation of investments in the gross social product. Who asks you, gentlemen of the government, how much investment is going to go to Serbia or is the government going to invest? I don't even think Mr. Dacic is leading his party, so the state is going to invest. Now you're showing up with Kosovo and Metohija, so you've wrapped it up that I don't even know what Kosovo and Metohija is. Somewhere you mentioned AP Kosovo and Metohija and, of course, something, while slapping probably those from the DSS, wrote that you would review the distribution mechanisms in Kosovo and Metohija to ensure more proper distribution of funds and prevent false patriotism from conducting abuses and embezzlements. Mr. Cvetkovic, if you start like you used to, Tito, and then those who replaced him, that you're telling us about crime in general, you won't be representing the government from this pay phone for long. So you already know that there was crime and abuse in the funds for Kosovo and Metohija. Why don't you tell us here? When we form a government, we will stop the crime that he and this one committed, so many funds went under the mask, says false patriotism. How long are you going to talk about false patriotism? There's only false morality. False patriotism doesn't exist. Either you're a patriot or you're not. Believe me, the nepatriot can't convince anyone that he's a patriot, not even a little child, because it leads you, there's no deviation. They don't even have to ask you how you're going to react, you know how a patriot reacts. You say here, not accepting the independence of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. It is Boris Tadic's flossula, which is unacceptable for me to have independence from Kosovo and Metohija. Now it has been accepted by all coalition partners, now it is unacceptable for all of you to have Kosovo and Metohija independence. What are you going to do against that independence? The foreign minister will shuttle diplomacy. Here is before this session in Spain to confirm that Spain will not recognise Kosovo's independence. We didn't know that, Mr. Minister, you were supposed to fly to Spain and let us know that Spain still doesn't recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. To see you once come from France and say -- here I am today, France is giving up recognition of Kosovo's independence and the Metohija. You're being followed by an order as big as a house, Mr. Minister. Foreign affairs in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, I guess that's what every embassy should do, not the minister to fly a plane and we of the entire foreign ministry have a foreign minister. Every day the report on television, Mr. Minister was there, Mr. Secretary was there. Then what are those ambassadors doing? Speaking of ambassadors and improving relations with the United States, what about ambassadors who have been withdrawn from the embassy in countries that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence? Does the government change that policy, Mr. President? Does the government decide tomorrow at the session to return ambassadors or perhaps this government extends the decision of the previous government, which is in line with the National Assembly resolution that we cannot provide an ambassador for the states that have recognised the independence of a part of our territory? What is the further struggle for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia? Is that war, as Mr. Ivica Dacic said a few months ago? Is this war, as Boris Tadic said a few months ago? How are we going to convince the world, how will the world believe us that we really want Kosovo and Metohija to be part of Serbia if our last defence -- we do not accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence? It stinks, we'll close the door, keep it from reminding us that there's something out there that's wrong. What's concrete? Here you are pushing our co-operation with international institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. Not to ask, I believe you know, Mr. Minister, they've marked it for you, I suppose, where it's written for you. Is EULEX, are these international forces in Kosovo and Metohija? Will you co-operate with EULEX, for which the Russian Federation, which you so shyly mention as our friends and support, said it was imposed in Kosovo and Metohija, that the secretary-general had trampled the UN rules, past the Security Council, decided to rename some institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, that some who had not formed the Security Council had the importance and strength as if they had been formed at the Security Council's session. I have no answer here what is for you Kosovo and Metohija, what is for you, Mr. President, what is co-operation with international organisations and what are for you negotiations with Albanians. Whom do you convince that there will be negotiations with Albanians? You've been negotiating with Albanians for five years. You haven't seen them one time. Thank God, you mention and unclassified, China, India, the Arab world, Mediterranean base. Latin America is short of you, but it's against the United States a lot, so right now you're not able to diversify what Latin America is doing to get rid of a world tutor. The reduction of regional differences in the level of development is directly opposed to your coalition partner, Mr. Cank, who says all money acquired in Vojvodina must remain in Vojvodina. Directly opposed to the decision of the Hungarian parties and their objectives, in which they slowly unite the space in which the Hungarians are in the majority and ask you for concessions that the state when means think about whether it is part of its territory. That's just because you're collecting to a number, you need 126. How are you going to ensure a balanced development when the gentlemen of the Vojvodina say - what is duchy, it's just ours. When will the gentlemen who give you the votes to develop Bosilegrad evenly at the same time as Sombor, Užice or Zajcar? It is not part of their policy and their voters' policies at all. They portray their voters as people who only care about Vojvodina, who say that all other parts of Serbia rob Vojvodina and thus get the votes of those people who are convinced we do not need even regional development. Even within the framework of the Vojvodina, we would divide, who lives in Vojvodina, who would like only that part to develop. Even other parts of the Duke wouldn't interest him. What ruined us in 2001 is now one of the basic headings of economic reform, complete privatisation of social enterprises, state banks and insurance companies. It's not over yet. Now we're going to see how you think you do, there's JAT gentlemen, now you have a new Energy Minister, I'm very interested in how the NIS privatisation, the EPS, I'm interested in whether the new minister will find crime in the previous activities of the predecessors, because I always see you as an opposition in this government. Of course, I don't expect you to be an opposition in the government, but I expect you to be an opposition to what the government has done to date, the government of Zoran Djindjic, the government of Zoran Zivkovic, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, one and the other. All of this I expect you to be an opposition, especially to crime, especially to rob the state, especially to impoverish the widest layers of the population, especially the poverty of the pensioners. Speaking of pensioners, if Mr. Vice-President of the Government wakes up, I finally realized, I didn't think of you, what it looks like is the agreement that finally guarantees Mr. Krkobabiæ what no one could guarantee him so far. So we had this remarkable system that, by coming to power, the DOS couldn't function anymore. I accept that depending on what the World Bank, the IMF, dictated, you changed the Labour Act, the Pensions Act, the Strike Act, everything. Then the law dropped, according to the law, a percentage of average pensions fell from average earnings and somehow reached 60%, and with the harmonisation twice a year, it means about 48-49% of the average earnings to pensioners. When we talked about it, we said that there were obviously funds in the budget to increase pensions from 10% to the end of the year, and then to determine exactly how much money we could allocate for next year in the budget. Mr. Krkobiæ was not satisfied, and then you offered him a solution that Mr. future Prime Minister explains - The government plans to increase pensions by 10% by September 2008 at the latest, and to adopt amendments to the Law on PIO that would introduce the indexation of pensions, the indexation here does not say well, besides, and Mr. Sutanovac writes Sutanovic, so he does not object, according to the trend of earnings during 2009 and define the dynamics of increasing the relationship between past pensions and past earnings to a maximum of 70%, in line with the country's economic and fiscal opportunities. What isn't, Mr. Krkobic, a minimum of 70%? You asked 70% of us as coalition partners. No, you're not. You're looking for a maximum of 70%. Why didn't you ask for a maximum of 100%? So it's obvious that you served as an excuse not to make this coalition, but you didn't justify that excuse. If the new government had adopted what was impossible for you, what you asked of us, since the new year the average pension was 70% of the average profit, I would say - Mr. Krkobic, you have fulfilled what you asked. By the time you got that it would be 70% maximum, and 48% is 70% max. You didn't get anything, because you didn't ask for anything, especially those you were so happy to talk about, Mr. Krkobic. Let's see this -- co-operation with factors of global world, European and regional security. Who is the factor of global global, European regional security - is that NATO? Where did you get the right, Mr. Cvetkovic, to tell us here at all about this NATO, we said we were military neutral. The assembly told you that the military was neutral. We are absolutely not interested in military alliances and we are absolutely not interested in the global security force. I didn't hear that the UN formed such a force or perhaps you heard, Mr. Cvetkovic, from these top students of yours, what in three months' time did they doctor in America? Who are we working with at the global security level? What's the name of that factor, and what do we get out of it? There used to be two global factors, and today I think there are two or at least that cop can't do the other one -- he can never hit. But who are we working with, and what kind of cooperation is that? What's that only in two sentences? Shall we go on those missions? We send doctors, paramedics, we send guns, but they're gone in our army, you don't have a single civilian face anymore, or the entire regiments don't have masters in our army anymore. How do we cooperate with those who bombed us and who don't think too well of us today? I wouldn't want to skip the farm, like you skipped. There's only four rows of agriculture here. Agriculture is the basis of economic reforms in Serbia, it is understood by one of your coalition partners, who will hear there is no agriculture here. In the campaign, agriculture was the main asset of your coalition partner -- where is agriculture here now? Help for nursing homes - don't worry. Or worse, good students will have free schooling - even now they do. The poor will be treated for free - where do you get the right to think that there will be poor people? Where do you get the right to say someone will be treated for free and no one will? Who's going to set that social map - what's "poor" for you? If the operation costs 100,000 euros, who's poor or rich enough to pay? Will it be left to you again? Where's the evening one - he's gone? Escaped all from G17 plus. They think I have something against them, and even when I have something against them, I'm just saying it's Serbia's attitude. I have nothing against you personally. You can be led by Tadic as long as he wants you to form a government with him, and he can give you as much money as you want, and now all the money is in your hands -- it looks like you can do anything. You'll realize one day you can't do everything. I'm really sorry that I'm not putting any of you under arrest from this place, but I'm talking about who you're supposed to arrest. This is where we reached Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Vice President, Vice President, Vice President, Minister of Police. What kind of crime fight? Mr Dacic, in the past month and a half, yellow has retired all members of the police who have nothing to do with you, or me or some decent and normal man in Serbia. Fifty years old is the basis for retirement, including those who were employed in the police five years ago, and now 50-year-olds, drunk and exhausted personnel are now retired -- you're left with a yellow company in the police department, the entire police force is yellow. Well, let's see how you get the criminals out of the yellow parts of the police. What a reckoning it will be - with this Djelic sitting next to you... with the Prime Minister involved in the privatisation. Today, two sheds in the farming community are sold at a higher price than huge businesses at the time when Mr Cvetkovic decided on it. Maybe it's normal for you, not for us. Justice - where's Mr. Chiplic? I'm talking about a man who's a member of the government, he even doctored at the Constitutional Court's work in emergency circumstances or whatever, and he showed that when the yellow government introduced an emergency in Serbia. When you protected the Constitutional Court. For the past eight years - four years we don't have a constitutional court. We don't have a constitutional court today. You didn't mention here the Casation Court -- a condition for the constitutional court's constitution. When's that gonna be? When will the Supreme Court be the highest judicial authority in Serbia? What does the Constitution say, Mr. Chiplet? You didn't care about that when you were judge of the Constitutional Court, you're not particularly interested in it today. Today you'll say it's someone else's job, the job of others. No, this is the job of all of us. But this is the most beautiful. He says -- I want to point out that the new government project that I've exposed is actually a project of a better life. That show is being repatriated again on state television, only other actors, Mr. President. That's how you guys are here right now - we're gonna give you a better life. This was promised to us by Kostunica twice, promised by Djindjic, promised by Zivkovic - a better life, a better life, a better life. It can't be like this. I wish you good luck. I wish every government out of here a lot of luck. As a citizen of Serbia and as a Serb, as a man who is at the going of his working century, and so eager to see those children happy in Serbia, to see that they have a future, a perspective, that you do not lie to them anymore -- that you will provide them with perspective, rather than provide them with it, because I have listened to Mrs Kalanovic for 8 years in Strasbourg about a better life, and today promises us a better life finally from the post of minister. What happens, Mrs. Kalanovic, if in two or four years, it depends when you eat this government, if you promise us a better life again? I can't listen to that anymore, and neither can these people here normal and smart. Then bring the children to the day that your president of the assembly was established - the open day of the assembly on Saturday - bring the children and come out here and say - as of today, children, I promise a better life and there will be applause, there will be everything, because the children know what a better life is, and we will not know that next to you. When can we help you? If there really is a crisis in Kosovo and Metohija, count on us not to take care of the crisis. If you need help with friends in the world, those you've spit like that, bullied and kicked in the last six years, I don't say all eight years, and we're here. When can you expect us back? Every law project, every move. We're not people who won't agree with your laws, we're people who will change them by amendment. We are the ones who slow you down by passing the law, so you keep saying, here at the exhibition Mr. Cvetkovic says "two years of stasis in the adoption of reform laws". I guess he's moving it back to Aligrudic and his family, not to transfer it to his part of the government, or even to himself as finance minister. He didn't slow down the laws, he slowed down the DSS. Otherwise, you'll see now that there's no DSS in the government, now the laws will run one after the other. In 2001, they ran one after the other, so they cramped Serbia for it. There is no good law until it has been combed by the opposition or by the professional public before entering the Assembly. If in some sciences there is no longer an objective professional public but you bought everything, there are some. Some universities still have professors who want good Serbia and who want good laws, regardless of who makes them. We've always put our trust in such people and we'll still rely on them. Co-operation with international institutions, I left it conscious of the end, is co-operation with The Hague tribunal, within the framework of international rights that you will respect. As long as you do not show that for you those tried in The Hague tribunal are citizens of Serbia, until you show that those you are to arrest are not cattle but people, I will not have the right to think of you as people who want good for all Serbian citizens. As long as you don't condemn The Hague for 12 deaths in The Hague, caused by mistreatment or maltreatment, I can't think of you as the people responsible for running the state. As long as working together with international institutions is a subjugation, not a partnership, I can't think of you as people who are seriously going to run the country. At this point, I think of you as people who have gathered in different ways and who are going to try to do some work. I'd hate for you not to get all the jobs you've been up to, but I'd like you to at least do a good job for Serbia. In this government, I don't want the success of G17 plus, because it would be another big robbery that would make them unpunished. In this government, I'm interested in what the SPO is looking for. In this government, I want the success of minority members. I wish the Hungarians had gotten into that government, too. I would like Serbian minority members to have a decisive place in each government, but not to blackmail them with attitudes but to sit in the benches, get in this car and drag Serbia forward. The SRS, however it beats you, you get away with something. I ask the citizens of Serbia to make that victory really clear in the future, to realize that until we win so that we do not depend on your blackmail, we will not be able to lead Serbia. I really wouldn't accept taking her to the band where you run her.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1143	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1144	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the future members of the government, allow me to explain in a few sentences why the Hungarian coalition will vote today to elect a new government of the Republic of Serbia. When this assembly elected Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic president of the National Assembly on June 25th, I said we would be part of the new parliamentary majority. Why are we part of the new parliamentary majority? We are part of the new parliamentary majority because the vast majority of the duchy Hungarians are interested in speeding up the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia and the vast majority of Hungarians are aware of the need to modernise Serbia. When I say by modernising Serbia, I also mean modernising Vojvodina, Bosilegrada, Užica, Novi Pazar, Cačka, Kragujevac, Belgrade and the entire Republic of Serbia. The government is only possible if it does not seek excuses, which will not deal with quasi dilemmas, but is ready to work in the interest of achieving these goals. Have we conditioned future coalition partners to functions? We didn't. The Hungarian coalition did not condition future coalition partners with functions. We didn't ask for a ministerial post, we didn't accept the sound function of the Deputy Prime Minister who would have the right to oversee regional co-operation. The Hungarian coalition and the Vojvodina Hungarians have never been a factor of instability in this country, neither now nor will they be a factor of instability. We will be honest, reliable, open, but we will preserve political identity, preserve independence and the right to think. Did we condition future coalition partners with personal solutions? The Hungarian coalition did not condition future coalition partners with personal solutions. For the sake of honesty, I said on June 25th, I must say now that we are not happy with the fact that the new parliamentary majority and the new government of the Republic of Serbia will also form an SPS. We are not happy that we are not ready for collective amnesia or collective amnesty, but we are ready to co-operate and we are ready to do our utmost to reach together the outlined priorities of the new government of the Republic of Serbia. We didn't veto a single candidate for a member of the government. As for Mr Cvetkovic, the prime minister of the new government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic is absolutely acceptable to the Hungarian coalition. It is absolutely acceptable because he respected everything he promised in his previous term when he served as finance minister. As an example, I would like to quote our agreement on the funding of national minority councils from last year's budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I must say, whatever Mr. Cvetkovic is absolutely acceptable to us, that he is sorry to the Hungarian coalition that he still cannot be Prime Minister of Vojvodina, he cannot be Prime Minister of Vojvodina even when he has results. It is absolutely acceptable, Mr. Cvetkovic, but we would also accept Mr. Pajtic, that today he is sitting here in the front row. As far as the government's structure is concerned, I wasn't talking about the draft law on ministries last week, so I'm going to do it very briefly now. It is good that there is a Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, it is good that there will be a Ministry of Science and Technological Development. We see this as an indication that the new government is aware of the needs of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. This will have to be expressed in the draft budget law for next year. It would have been a great shame if the Human and Minority Rights Ministry hadn't been specifically formed. We regret that Mr Cvetkovic's exposé did not say anything about Serbia being a multiethnic society, that there are national minorities living in Serbia. We are very pleased that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights will exist and we are very pleased that Mr. Ciplic will be at the head of the ministry. The minority parliamentary group is sincere in its desire for co-operation, in its desire to provide assistance and co-operation with regard to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and regarding Mr Chiplic himself. We regret that there is no European Integration Ministry. There are opinions that the ministry could understand that it is a signal to other ministries that these ministries should not deal with the problem of the integration of the Republic of Serbia. We can accept that, but we still believe that a special ministry of European integration should be formed, when not now. We heard that there were too many ministries, there are 24 instead of 22, as many as there were during the previous government. There are 27 members of the new government, instead of 25, but has the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. If it's going to be effective work, no one's going to mention the bulk of the government in a few months. Otherwise, there would be too many 12 ministries. I hope we too hope from the Hungarian coalition that the new government will be pro-European and efficient. Did we set up ultimatums on the new government programme of the Republic of Serbia? No, we're not. The Hungarian coalition did not set up ultimatums for future coalition partners regarding the programme. We believe that as part of the congregation's majority, we want to achieve goals that we could not achieve in the last term when we were in opposition. What are the goals of the Hungarian coalition? These are the accelerated European integration, and the depreciation of European values in Serbia. We must not bid on dates, we must not mention absolutely unrealistic dates, we must work every day to make Serbia a member of the EU as soon as possible. It is therefore necessary to harmonise Serbia's law. During last government last year, the National Assembly, unfortunately, adopted only the Asylum Act and the Law on Travel Immitments. We heard during last summer that by the end of last year this National Assembly would adopt 40 European laws. Sadly, this did not happen, not because the congregation was doing bad work, but because the past government did not refer the bill to the congregation procedure at all. This must change, because during the mandate of this government and this assembly, the National Assembly must pass hundreds of laws that will be harmonised with the EU's legal order. It is very important to us that we heard from Mr Cvetkovic in the exposé that an action plan will be developed regarding the harmonisation of our legal system with the EU legal system. In addition to accelerated European integration, for Hungary the coalition is an undeniable goal and economy. The law on foreign investment and regional development laws should be passed as soon as possible. We need to work on the competitiveness of agriculture. These topics were unfortunately completely neglected during the term of office of the last government. For us, decentralisation is a priority. A law must be passed on the property of local self-government and the property of Vojvodina must be returned. As the fifth objective of the Hungarian coalition, it should certainly be noted that the rights of members of national minorities should be extended. It is high time to pass a law in this assembly on how to choose, compete and finance national councils of national minorities. I hope that the first objective of the newly formed Ministry of Human and Minority Rights will be to draw up a draft law on national councils. So the EU, economy, agriculture, decentralisation and the extension of the rights of members of national minorities are the priorities of the Hungarian coalition. Is achieving these goals in the interest of only Hungarians? No, it's not. These goals are not only in the interest of the duchy Hungarians, but are in the interest of the entire Serbian state. At this point, only this government can have a chance to meet these challenges with success. I just said once before, I'd like to underline once again, the Hungarian coalition is not and will not be a factor of instability. It is not and will not be a factor of instability, despite being in a position to blackmail other parties from the future coalition, but we have not set the ultimatums in terms of structure or personal solutions, or the programme of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course we expect, as well as all other parties that will support the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, to respect our priorities. We expect the new government and its ministers to always have an open door to our proposals, suggestions, requests, to a much greater extent than it has been in recent years. These demands will always be well-intentioned, which will be equally in the interest of both the national communities and the Republic of Serbia. The Hungarian coalition and the Bosniak List for the European Sandzak will vote today for the new government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1145	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's MP Dusan Bajatovic, and then a folk letter from Hope Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1146	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I appear as the authorised representative of the SPS-PUPS-JS parliamentary group. I'm going to spend less than half the time I have, because I think this government needs to be told its results, and I'm afraid we're going to have nothing from too much talk in the Assembly right now. I'll give you a few findings. We think the Prime Minister's exposure is good, you can't say everything in one exposé. It was not easy for us, as the Socialist Party of Serbia, and not for our coalition partners, to define ourselves as such a political coalition, welcomed by these fellow MPs, whom I already see doing a great job for the opposition in the coming period, very clearly, strictly, that they will closely monitor everything that we are doing. It is good for democracy in Serbia in general. This government was also made on something else, not only at the need of political reconciliation of forces, as Serbian President Boris Tadic said, and how we accepted it, but also that it is high time to realise that we have come out of the 1990s with a deep social crisis, a national, economic and social threat. That we were in the post-October 5th period, where there were dominant democratic forces, where the Serbian Radical Party was the largest opposition party, that democratic parties failed to find adequate solutions among themselves. In my understanding of the matter, in my deep political belief, this government was made up of us finding political, economic, social, state problems and realizing that the period of the 1990s was a period of disintegration of the former large Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which we see differently, that the period after October 5th, regardless of what we are now in the coalition, had produced insufficient good results and that both periods had a vague relationship with these things and internal brakes. What do we need to count? Today, there are many open state, national, economic and social problems. Some of them were talked about here. That today Serbia is an economically inefficient society, that the political elite is fairly divided, often self-sufficient, that there is a serious internal conflict, that we are very often prone to disputes between ourselves, and that we offer little solutions, that we have a million unemployed, that we have a million of those who cannot live on their salary, that we have a million pensioners who can't get an adequate pension and things like that. We were all talking about four principles. European integration, before that I would say state unity, Kosovo and Metohija's stay in Serbia, a better standard of population and the fight against crime and corruption. Nothing new for this government setup either. We Socialists have made an effort to add the principle of social justice and thank our future coalition partners for their acceptance of this principle. I am absolutely certain, since some here question the political principle of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that this principle, with the principle of social justice, will not only ensure the future result of the Socialist Party of Serbia, but ensure that Serbia is both more economically efficient and socially fair. So these were our motives, not trade, not power at all costs. I remind you that among other things, we entered this coalition because the other parliamentary majority were gone. We think it's a good thing that, together with our political partners, the United Pensioners Party and the Unity of Serbia, for me personally, I have to tell you, it's certainly going to be a great challenge to reconcile the social goals that the SPS has, but I also have to admit to my DS colleagues, it might be hard to reconcile with the economic vision that the G 17. But I'm absolutely sure all the parties that make up this coalition majority have a clear motive to do everything, do the best and do the most. Why, gentlemen? Because this government will not hold any political trade, it will not hold any underground deals, no American, English or Russian ambassadors, this government will deliver. Since I know first of all my colleagues, given that the largest number of political, economic and social demands by the Socialist Party of Serbia are respected and exposed in the prime minister's exposé, I am absolutely certain that, with the responsibility of our other future coalition partners, we can have one government that will start making visible and tangible shifts. The second thing, and with this I will try to finish, I would never make a mockery of trying to establish national reconciliation, even if in the beginning it was a political reconciliation of two parties, DS and SPS, because our intention is not to look behind us anymore, especially in a daily way, not by looking for points of conflict in the past, so turning it into a political market because of daily political points, but by establishing an economically efficient society, a socially responsible society, that on the basis of the unity of political forces in Serbia and with a clearly developed political and economic, so if it is necessary and military plan, we defend Kosovo and Metohija, we establish international alliances on this plan. I forgot to say that we asked for respect and respect for Republika Srpska. We can think about this period of creation of Republika Srpska as we wish, but there are Serb people living there today, and we have to take care of all this. Therefore, I would ask fellow MPs and those who will be the authority to influence those who will be executive power, that parliament will not be underestimated by the executive government, regardless of what it will be, and apparently also members of the opposition recognise that this government will be elected today. And, opposition colleagues, that everyone is doing their job, that parliament be primary in relation to the executive power, that in a clear way they account, that colleagues from the opposition, as they have announced, not by obstructing parliamentary work, because I hope that we will not give them the opportunity, do their job to the opposition just as strongly, publicly, clearly, as they have announced. What can I tell you, I'd like to tell my colleagues, first of all from the SPS and the others, happy early heroes, but I'm afraid my colleagues don't mind. I want this government to last four years, to have clear results on both national and social, economic and national terms. Here, so much, and above all on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, the United Pensioners' Party and the Unity of Serbia, I call on everyone together, in line with those duties they have, to work on making these tendencies of bad conditions both on economic and national, and on social, and in part and on the state plan, to be a step-by-step step-by-step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1147	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1148	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article. 226. Perhaps Mr. Bajatovic is expressing his views, but he speaks on behalf of the party coalition that is forming a government at the moment. It states the views that are not in your exposé, Mr. Cvetkovic, are the attitudes that deserve your immediate reaction. Does the newly formed ruling coalition have any alternative plan under which the SPS and coalitions gathered around the party, Mr. Bajatovic, or not, speak in hints? I mean mentioning a military plan that will be applied in cases that Mr. Bajatovic did not talk about, which you have to talk about. There is no talk of Republika Srpska in the exposé. And, in your exposé, you're not talking about the national reconciliation the party to your coalition is talking about. Is there a national reconciliation you don't want to meet us about? Or does national reconciliation not exist and is used as a phrase in the interpretation of a rather contradictory coalition? These are important questions and you have to answer them. This is a debate, not a monologue MP who uses his right and performs here without any reaction from anyone seeking parliamentary support. We expect you to tell us what a national reconciliation is, which is not mentioned in your exposé, whether it exists or not, whether it is the phrase of one of your ruling coalitions, which is the justice of that coalition or not. If that national reconciliation isn't in the exposé, then it's not in the future government's policy either, and if there is, if it's in politics and it's not in the exposé, then it's worrying and you don't have the right to hide something like that from the Assembly. And especially important is this issue of the military plan. What kind of military plan is that? You don't mention him here? You mention military reform, mention co-operation in this global security system, but do not mention anywhere the existence of a military plan that will be applied in our unknown case. Since it is an SPS, a party with its past, a party returning to power, then it is necessary to take special care of such ideas and such views. So you have a duty to comment on it. If you don't comment on something like that, then we'll meet at the end of the debate, when I'll ask for the right to again answer those questions that have been left without your answer, which will be interpreted as your weakness, and then we'll give our answer that comes from some experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1149	National MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1150	Article 27, then Article 104. First of all, it was a deal not to react to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. We can't forbid anyone to do that, we won't do it, I did it now to draw attention to that circumstance. On the other hand, the way Mr Cedomir Jovanovic appeared a little while ago is not correct. To ask questions like this to someone who can't answer these questions at all, which has been quite clear to me from the very beginning so far, it's primarily offensive to the others who listen to it. So you can't expect anyone to answer questions that are impossible to answer, because he's neither politically competent nor politically powerful that he can answer, nor does he understand what you just asked him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1151	The word has been made by MP Dusan Bajatovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dusan Bajatovic is giving up his application to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the future members of the government, I will not long explain the reasons why the MEP Group for European Serbia will support the government headed by Mr Mirko Cvetkovic. The fact that most Serbian citizens look forward to the formation of this government and approves of the formation of this government is, in fact, the strongest argument for us here. Serbia has a government technique in the last 24 months nearly half of that time. We all know what that means. We cannot take responsibility for the early elections, but we have therefore taken responsibility for the processes that will allow Serbia, within a short period of time, to receive the government in a relatively short time, and that, in our deep confidence, not just any government. What is extremely important to us is the understanding of political circumstances and the understanding of such political circumstances of decision making that actually means the best answer to these circumstances. Today we have a country that may be the only one in this part of the world at a crossroads and the only one that is divided around which side to take. In our deep confidence, the only way Serbia should go and guarantee a secure future, which guarantees stability, economic development and all that is the interest of Serbian citizens is the path of European integration. That is why it is extremely important for us that the political parties found themselves in the parliamentary majority and which are today forming the government of the Republic of Serbia are around this key point. So we believe that the backbone of this government is the issue of European integration, and therefore we strongly support this government. The issue of European integration for us is really not a question of ideology or a question of some exaggeration of the importance of what it is today. We are deeply convinced that the job of a politician is not to deny reality, to resist reality, to fight reality, that the job of a politician is to see reality realistically, and based on such a realistic reality, to find the best way for his country and for the citizens in it. The reality today is that the best thing for Serbia and for all its citizens is the accelerated path towards the EU. If we talk about general reasons for this, then we can say that the issue of integration corrects and strengthens the country's international position. The issue of European integration improves the economic position and gives a chance for new investment and the strengthening of domestic economy. The issue of European integration is also linked to the issue of reducing unemployment, i.e. a higher level of employment of people. The issue of European integration is also about the employment of people, it is about better salaries, better pensions, greater social benefits and the possibility of Serbia being a country that, based on real economic opportunities, will be a country that is socially responsible for those categories that care about the country in the transitional period is necessary. At the same time, European integration is not just a matter of economy and human standards. European integration is for us and something much more, and sometimes it doesn't seem to be particularly important, but we think it is important. The issue of European integration is the issue of European standards, and above all, we are referring to the issue of the strengthening of democratic institutions, creating and strengthening democratic institutions. We rightly expect this government to do everything to create first a legal space for the creation of independent democratic institutions, to support the creation of these institutions, to show, among other things, that this Parliament, as the most legislative body and as the body responsible for controlling the work of the government, will respect the extent possible and that it will discuss its projects with MPs in this assembly, will be the position or opposition; that we will try to reach a solution if we can come together; that where there are ideological conflicts we will not wage war, although we will oppose concepts that are fundamentally different. Europe is for us and a value system, and a question of human and civil rights. The development of the human and civil rights corps is also a new value system in which we will be free of some traditional understanding of the state, in which we will be rid of some traditional understanding of the position of the man in which man is a subject of the state, and is not a carrier of sovereignty. So, after these four years, we will create the foundations of a society that we will be able to say that it has the foundations of a modern democratically developed society. We have received remarks here that this government is and that this parliamentary majority is made up of heterogeneous, incompatible and I don't know what kind of political groups. It's funny. Some people called it a traffic light. What is important to us here is the question of understanding Serbia. If we are political groups that have different colors in them, I would like to remind you that Serbia is a country that knows the entire length of color spectrum and when taken according to national, religious, educational, by whatever criteria you want, Serbia is one big spectrum of colors. If that color spectrum isn't seen in politics, then there's something wrong with politics. We don't think a wider spectrum of colors is the problem that the coalition is working. We expect the government, which we choose today, to be a national team, and whatever team it comes from to play a common game called achieving the country's interests and the interests of its citizens. More than ever, we expect this government to actually be a team, much more than a set of individuals and a set of resistors. We expect this government to show that it can view society as a whole, considering and resolving certain elements of it. We also had a remark that the government was too big and that it would be inefficient. We can say that there are different examples, and surely this government is not more similar to the governments of developed democratic countries by their numbers, more similar to governments of countries that have passed the transition, but what matters to us is whether the government is expensive from what it will do, not whether it's expensive by the number of cabinets it has. So, from the results of this government and according to the results of this government, we will measure whether this government was expensive or not. The most expensive government is a government that does not deliver the result to citizens and does not achieve the goals it has set for itself, which it has received support for. The next question is whether this is a national government and what it really is is a national government, because it is an accusation that this is not a national government and there is obviously a fundamental misunderstanding in what it is and what it is not a national government. For us, the government that achieves the goal of Serbia's entry into the EU, which implies the transformation of society in both political and economic and social terms, is a government that is a national government responsible. So we do not think that the issue of Serbia's entry into Europe is a small goal or that there is no idea. For us it is a great idea that will require a terrible lot of engagement, which will require a lot of energy and a lot of effort, and it would be good to have in this effort the support of those who dispute that path. It would certainly be easier for us to achieve that goal if we did not have the way of tripping and obstacles. However, I want this government, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, which is made up of DS, the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and the SP, to succeed in the work because I believe that this is the interest of every citizen, regardless of who he voted for, that this is also the interest of those citizens who did not vote for the parties that make up this government. I want this government to last and to be stable, I want it to really be the state team that's going to win this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1153	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is really impossible to remain without comment on the presentation of the representatives of the government, because man could get the impression that we, who have so far tripped on the way to Europe, are finally coming down from the authorities and are now going to take over the power of those who want to introduce us into the EU, and now, as I have heard Mrs Kolundji, Serbia is going to take the European path. Excuse me, please, you said in the first, second sentence, I wouldn't have gotten into that if you hadn't said that. You've been on the European road for eight years. Where do you think you're going? I wish you hadn't moved so far, where luck is that the exposés are true, so that there may be other paths, which we tell you about uninterrupted. But if you were to take the road to Europe now; it is not true, Mrs. Kolundzija, here is this "the Duke of Meridian Bank", he told us eight years ago that in eight years we will be in the EU, and now we are just going to start looking at the European way. Furthermore, you say Serbia is a colorful garden. Yes, it is. Then why do you have a problem with Serbian nationalists? How come you're just fighting them? How come everything you say in the world about Serbia, everything that has led Serbia to a bad voice, was your story of poor Serbian nationalists. Either Serbian nationalists are worse than Hungarians, or perhaps worse than those who asked Raska or Sandzak to be a republic, or those who say that the centre of events in Raska is in Sarajevo? Where do you measure that nationalism is valid, that is not right, which is allowed, which is not allowed? It's still gonna turn out to be our fault, 'cause we're gonna trip you on that European path. He says, "I'd like those who trip us, stop tripping, we'd be quicker." Who's tripping you? Europe is tripping with you. He will not put up with thieves, he will not suffer corruption in Serbia. Europe is looking for a decent government in Serbia. They're still allowing you to rule. As pleased as they are with you, you can tell by the speed we're going towards Europe. Who stopped you on your way to Europe? You decide for yourself, you choose at a pace, you determine for yourself the ministers, the vice-presidents in charge of European integration, you choose who you talk to, you determine the tactics in relation to the unquestionable European requirements. Did I tell you that without full co-operation with The Hague tribunal there is no agreement on accession or Europe? When will you be on the European road? Here, tonight you are arresting Mladic, Karadzic, Hadzic, on the European road tomorrow. Furthermore, did Europe set any other conditions? What about Kosovo and Metohija? What kind of European route are you on? With who? Is it in Serbia Kosovo and Metohija or not? In what Europe that says Kosovo and Metohija are not an integral part of Serbia? What are you lying to us about? It's nice to go out and say - if we join the EU, we'll all be rich. When? When? Is everyone rich in the European Union? Is that where they accept all those agreements that the Council of Ministers invented? A member of the European Union rebels, making it difficult for the EU to fully act, and we blindly, blindly, without any defence. Who would you sell agricultural products to now, Mr. Djelic? The Russians. What did you sell the EU? What's the name of this product? I repeat, you have no trip to Serbia on your way to the EU. What the opposition doesn't want can't stop you. You run Serbia as you please. The opposition never determines Serbia's flows. You're on your own. Don't over two years, when you're eaten by that cancer called G 17 plus, to say, it was the opposition that prevented us, we didn't pass the system laws. When do we do that? You're getting old. What kind of 200,000 new jobs, new jobs? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's how we should define it. You've closed down a million jobs, and now we can only reopen 200 grand, so over 20 years, another 200 grand, and you're counting on us not being born at all, and no one being an adult, and no one finishing school, that there are no new arrivals at the employment bureau, but only what was found unemployed, that's a million. It'll be two million. If God gives Serbia, that all Serbian citizens are having children, I guess we'll have a lot of children. When are you going to hire them? When are you going to get to this Europe? What is it in this Europe that surely brings? Pre-accession funds, you'll eat it all and spend it. Next, NIS, Elektroprivreda, and you'll eat it and spend it. See what the Serbian budget has been on for eight years? What the minister said - we'll fail if we don't sell something big soon, if we don't form a government and sell something big, we're gone. I have a lot of connections with the village, unlike you. I have life in my fingers. When a peasant sells a field, he can't live any better. Only when he buys, the one who buys the field, they say, "Here he is, making progress." The one who sold it, which is mostly the heirs, I count you as heirs to one of the good and bad systems, but he left something that you sold out. All you did was buy good cars. It's fate in Serbia. Whenever the heir comes, he doesn't ask how much his field is worth, but what car can buy for her. That's how you, too, broke up, sold out, half of it closed, never opened up by strangers. You're selling the best country in Vojvodina, first along the highways, then you're going to expand further, making warehouses with two or three employees, no longer producing wheat, corn. You haven't even thought about any other engagement in agriculture, now this one that's a physiology of domestic animals and physiology is going to end, he could now raise agriculture. You guys are playing with the most important resource in Serbia. The Vojvodina, which I love as much as the Shumadi, disappears as a symbol of one who feeds not only Serbia, but Europe. What's he turning into? In concrete oasis. Why didn't you tell them, along the Danube coast, why didn't you send them to some mountain-mounted area? You've been corrupt by all the councilmen, buying a field at the end of the village, five acres, then corrupting the councilmen to turn it into city building land, so give him permission, give him gas, give him asphalt, give him water and sewers, give him electricity, and he builds a warehouse and hires five forks and three manipulators, and he can't have seven thousand pounds per hectare of corn anymore. What happens in 4, 5 or 10 years? Is this what Europe does with its wealth? It doesn't work, for God's sake. You haven't learned anything from Europe. I don't even know how you look at them. What are you staring at? Karajorge sent semi-literate dukes all over Europe, so they knew what they were looking at. All right, replace the Russian flag, turn it upside down, do everything else right. And you, depending on them, boast that you have completed schools with them; they are mentors for you. When are you going to take those courses that you've completed to oppose what they're telling you? Never. You have to oppose knowledge. Where do you get the knowledge? Here when you work long hours, not when you come and sit in the minister's chair. You don't know anything about that. You are cruel monetaryists and you will implement it as you know it and you do not know it, and what of it will be for us, for the Serbian economy, for the children and for the old, we will see, Mr. Krkobic. I'm telling you, you're making a terrible mistake today. Maybe that doesn't interest you too much. In a year or two, that mistake will be seen. This is inhumane to the poor, to the unemployed, to the pensioners, to the sick. This government is inhuman to them. This government has been inhumane towards them, now there will be even more. As you intended, so be it, just don't accuse us of what our job is, which is our duty to do, of what you did. And don't talk about democracy, because in the last 15 days you've changed the boards of directors of all the media, and even that size in culture, Mr. Bradic is the size of you, but I also admit that Emir Kusturic is a better director than he is, not to speak any further without talking about a better board member. Whoever bothered you put him away. Who doesn't bother you? Only the one who lifts his finger for the yellow ones. Where are you looking at quality? Does it have universal qualities for you? No, it must belong to you. So on that democracy. Now I'm interested in what the editorial policy of the media will look like that you've taken brutally under your control in the last 15 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1155	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. I'm notifying an extension of the work. On the basis of Article 85, Section 5 and Section 6, today the Assembly will work instead of working until 18.00 hours business hours until the end of this item of the agenda and that the break that is common at 14.00 hours will be from 15.00 to 16.00 hours. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word application in writing, have submitted a parliamentary group and we shall proceed to the debate after the application for the word. The first word has the People's MP, Riza Halimi, and after that, MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1156	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the future ministers, ahead of the Coalition of the Albanian Presevo Valley, and this occasion I will welcome all the efforts that are in favour of the formation of the pro-European government. Albanians in this area are life-threateningly interested in working far more seriously than the previous one in favour of the government programme for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja since 2001. However, at first I must explain that I am not part of the new parliamentary majority, although it is often said that a whole parliamentary group of minorities is involved in an agreement on forming a new government. Simply, no concrete discussion on the topic has been held with representatives of the Presevo Valley Coalition. Moreover, we have not received a reply to the letter sent to the president of the country on 18 May, asking that, in the context of the efforts to achieve European values, the new government assume the obligation to reorganise the Co-ordination Body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja and to essentially involve the legitimate representatives of Albanians in the work of this government body and to enable the proper involvement of Albanians in the state bodies and the institution of the municipal level. Because it is known that we are not in the district without talking about higher levels, so I still do not see the readiness of the new parliamentary majority to work more seriously to solve the very sensitive problems facing Albanians in this area. Unfortunately, central authorities continue to close their eyes in front of the difficult economic situation in Presevo Valley, in which the employment rates in the Albanian population are higher than the record 70%, while the Presevo municipality is convincing in the last place in competition with all municipalities in the country with about six times the national income per capita from the corresponding state average. It also continues to ignore dramatic problems in the area of higher education. In a situation where Albanians in the Presevo Valley do not have any higher education institutions in their own language, while young Albanians from this field of study end up in Pristina, Tirana, Tetovo. So far, there have been huge difficulties due to their ability to participate in the allocation of funds from the Fund for Student Standard, but even greater difficulties occur in very complicated, slow and expensive procedures for the nostration of diplomas acquired in Tirana and Tetovo, which are very often and negatively solved, are being rejected. However, the situation in this plan is becoming more dramatic due to the new interpretation of the Ministry of Education, which is questioning the previous recognition of diplomas acquired at the University of Pristina, issued on the UNMIK form, of course with the UNMIK seal, and on the basis of a decision by the Ministry of Education in 2001, which then solved this sensitive problem. Due to a significantly modified interpretation of this issue by the Ministry of Education, trainees from the municipal administration in Presevo and Bujanovac cannot pass a professional exam for months, and the Ministry of Education has not organised professional exams for educational workers of Albanian nationality for two years. At a time when the current state policy categorically insists on UN Resolution 1244 and on the continued preservation of UNMIK's presence in Kosovo, it is really illogical that at these very moments the state authorities in Serbia give up the recognition of school diplomas issued by UNMIK and with their seal. However, it has so far been the only UNMIK document recognised by state authorities in Serbia. In this way, Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja remain completely free of new high-level personnel, which automatically means losing every perspective for the development of this extremely undeveloped area. And more dramaticly, these measures by the Serbian authorities will speed up ethnic cleansing of Albanians started in 1999. If we add data from this year's NIP to these facts, which shows that only 79 million dinars are foreseen for development projects for the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, and over a billion dinars are foreseen for the construction of the Cepotin military base between Bujanovac and Presevo for special military police forces. It is clear then that the current government has drastically reduced the socio-economic component of the 2001 programme and focused primarily on the militarist component. It doesn't take much wisdom to conclude that this strategy, not only temporarily, creates a vision of a peaceful state, and that it really has nothing to do with the established objective of the government's stability programme in this area. In addition to being prepared to support all the proposals that will contain and contribute to the acceleration of the country's EU integration, all the measures that would go in this direction, I cannot vote for this government today, as it is my main impression that there is still no fundamental readiness among the main holders of the parliamentary majority for a more serious approach to solving the very sensitive problems of Albanians in Presevo Valley. In fact, I don't see that there's a willingness in the new government to meet international commitments through the 2001 government programme, which was meant for political and socioeconomic change to create conditions for normal life for all citizens of this area. Finally, when it comes to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, to comment on that one ray of hope that perhaps not only verbally, but also practically working on the exercise of human and minority rights, to note what Mr. Pastor noticed -- that unfortunately in the exposé there was no point in this problem. This is in support of the fact that there is still a dilemma in this country about how to solve, in fact, the first dilemma is what we had last year -- about all the ministries working on the issue of human and minority rights, so it turns out that none of it was. Now what? We met in a hurry in, say, unprepared terrain and then we have no idea how the new government is going to work with this ministry. However, I would like to express this hope that this ministry will work towards achieving these basic values and contribute, if this entire mandate is, that there really is no need for this ministry, that this society and this state will really pass appropriate laws that will essentially protect human and minority rights, both in Vojvodina and in the Presevo Valley, or in Sandzak, of course, and in all parts of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1157	The word is a folk letter from Vesna Pesic, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1158	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these exposés ahead of us can be considered in two ways. One would be cynical, to say that we have received something that is common, something that is average and something that is some measure of Serbia, without some great ambition. That second criterion could be -- let's see how ambitious we can be and what we really are, but that we can be better, and that we can formulate things better and more precisely, rather than detached some sort of thing. So this is how it's written, and if it's said -- well, Serbia is this, so we don't have much to expect from Serbia. However, I believe that Serbia can make progress and that in its history it only progressed if it showed ambition, if it shows that it can always be better and that it can always be more solid than what we have here. I'm going to show that in a few ways, by analyzing the elements of the program, and of course each program should contain several elements. The first element is the goals that we have here on the first page, and then we have to talk about the methods, how certain goals will be achieved. Then we have to talk about dynamics, about the deadlines, how these deadlines will come true, and then we need to talk a little bit about the way that future government works. The right to tell you in this very way of working the future government I see that there might be some kind of change. If that doesn't have any, then the goals remain the same. If you look at what it was like last year, then I don't see that there's a step here and there's some major changes here, because when you say "targets" it can always be anything. But from these elements how, what is the implementation, when something is happening, what is the dynamic, what is the style of government work, and of course what are the human beings, so these are the elements based on which we can see how ambitious we are at this point. Here, to show when it comes to objectives, you see, says the first goal, that the government's consent has been reached, concerns the definition of Serbia's European future. Mr. Djelic, you did last year's integration and you were Deputy Prime Minister for that, for this part, so are you satisfied with this formulation or not? Please say it. It's not like we've come this far that we've just defined ourselves, and I guess we could say - Serbia's accelerated involvement or Serbia's EU integration dynamics, not "determination". Here, just to tell you how small, low our ambition is, that for and what we started seems to be just now defining ourselves. Couldn't you have said more precisely that goal, more ambitious, because next to you is Mr. Dacic, and then it's not responsible for them to be an accelerated inclusion, it's just a commitment? Here, I'm just giving you an example of this impetuousness, and when you don't have the ambition to achieve something, then you won't achieve anything. Okay, not accepting Kosovo's AP independence -- I agree with that. Let's say this third, what you need this "necessity", say just -- strengthening the economy -- there's no need. There it is - strengthening the government's social responsibility. Now, please, with this goal -- strengthening the fight against crime and corruption. So has it been a tough fight so far? We haven't had a plan yet. If we look at what's written inside, we can see that it won't be sharpened at all, that there's no mention of a national strategy, that neither the agency is mentioned nor the Anti-Corruption Convention, which, by the way, was signed by the minister himself, and none of that is mentioned there, any implementation, no guarantees -- that there will be any tightening. Second, why the tightening? Let's be ambitious -- so, elimination of crime and corruption, because why sharpen and we haven't been sharp? Finally, this really causes a sub-mice when it's said - respect for international law. You know what, I guess it's understood that someone's right, internationally and domestic, is respected. So this is completely, how can I say, almost blatantly, that one serious state, when taken, the government chooses them and the government says, respect for international law. My people, I guess the right must simply always be respected, internationally and domestically. So, this absolutely means nothing, and when this is looked back, it refers to Kosovo and Metohija, which has been said several times, and yet hidden because of coalition partners and Mr Dacic, so it cannot be said that this applies if it is the EU, primarily to co-operation, or to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which I cannot, without which I cannot draw the basic objectives of this programme. So the goals I've defined here show that there's no serious commitment, because they could have been better formulated, and not to speak now, when spoken, or I'll just say very briefly, when it comes to methods. For example, the word reform is always mentioned. That word really used to have a lot of meaning. Now you're saying, here's all I'm gonna ask when we say deadlines, when will this police reform be? Please, was it police reform or was it not police reform? There are other goals being talked about here, so what does that police reform mean, is that and who's in charge? We want to hear what that police reform is. On the other hand, what is the essence of the reform, it is said, "A civil control will be established over all security services." I ask you, when will civil security control be established? When exactly will this happen and in what time? It's not gonna happen. It's the same when it comes to judicial reform. We've been hearing about judicial reform for years. I'm asking the question again - when and how? There's nothing. When will this reform be implemented and what does this reform mean anyway? Those are words that don't literally mean anything. I also wanted to draw attention to the fact that the biggest problem was always being implemented. Let's say, if we look at the fight against corruption, the tightening of this fight, then we don't see that this fight will be fought by strictly or passing a new law, let's say, on party financing, because the main link between tycoon's influence on politics and political parties is in that darkness, in that impartiality. A party financing law has been adopted, however, neither it applies nor can be applied, nor its control is secured. We've passed the Audit Act. She never started a state audit. What's it worth to talk about that fight, when it's not mentioned that the state's audit is going to control, how is the budget going to be spent? We've also said that we have two budgets: a national investment plan and a plus budget. So there is no control or mention of the implementation and participation of these institutions. So when you look at the method, it's a very sad situation. You can't see how that's gonna happen. It's particularly sensitive about your partners. When it comes to the socially responsible government, I ask the prime minister to show that the balance will be held, that indeed people who are poor and knew that something will come true from these promises, to show that this fiscal policy and inflation will be shown in relation to the pension increase, to bring it to people, so that they can believe that Mr. Krkobic has really promised something, or that this inflation of 12%, what you're going to raise by 10% by the end of the year, inflation 12%. So, "eat a donkey wolf," there's nothing. Please, let's really show this to the citizens. In that regard, I'd like to say that it might not be a bad idea if you really showed which social policy. Mr. Krkobic, I'm talking to you right now, why are you asking for all pensions to rise at 10% linearly? You're not a poor pensioner. I think now we'd have to make a social policy that would be targeted, that really solves the problem where it exists. Why is everyone linear? As soon as it's a linear social policy, it means you don't have social policy. Modern social policy is never linear. So you target the problem and solve the problem. So I want to see that there's a modern social policy involved here, not a social policy of linearity, which doesn't actually solve a single problem. I'm just pointing to those moments. I will end with this, the first page says an action plan will be adopted when it comes to speeding up European and other reforms. When will the action plan be in place? Could you make one calendar for the first 100 days or at least six months? Let's see when. I mean, a lot of people here know, last year we passed the Law on travel documents. Is it said to be issued from March 1st and by the end of this year we will all have new passports? That hasn't been accomplished, Mr. Djelic. You never went out to explain why it wasn't accomplished. When you say action plan, when will it be an action plan? So we're asking you to perfect this exposé, that these exposés really get one structure and that citizens can at least partially believe that some of these goals will be achieved, because this kind of shush-mum, there's no deadline, there's no when, there's no law, there's not even the basic laws that you're going to pass. What are the basic laws that the congregation has to do urgently? There's no such thing. Through laws and implementation, we can see what this government is going to do. In the end, Mr. Cvetkovic, I wanted to congratulate you on this choice, but I also have to tell you that it is not good that you are going to run the government as an expert and that you, as someone who has first of all experience in economic activity, will certainly help the government in that part, but it is not bad when someone who has no political legitimacy is chosen for the prime minister because then he must seek that legitimacy somewhere outside of him. Because you're not an influential person, so you're a non-partisan personality, we introduce non-partisan personalities, there should be a couple of excellencies of a perfect political personality, so you can guarantee this program. So where we should throw out the politicisation, when it comes to businesses, the state administration, etc., there's going to be politicisation to stay, and where we really need to be strong political figures, that's where we choose non-party personalities. I'm asking the DS one perhaps naive question -- did one such big party, such as DS, not have any political personality to ask as prime minister, but a non-party person? Imagine how you will lead this government and whether you or anyone else will be responsible. In order not to play hide-and-seek, it is likely that the President of the Republic will be responsible. I'm telling him we'll call him back when it comes to this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1159	The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1160	Dear Presidents, Mr Cvetkovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the basis of the presentation and presentation of Mr Cvetkovic's programme on the future government of the Republic of Serbia, when this exposure is carefully read, we cannot really take the impression that we are not qualified in different ways, although these qualifications stem from a coalition agreement of parties that will make up the ruling coalition, of course, different types of compromises and concessions made to make that coalition. This exposé is not only inconceivable, it is also contradictory in many of its segments. Most importantly, on key issues, it is absolutely politically neutral and leaves the impression that what is really holding back the Republic of Serbia, the key and important issues, is avoiding being decidently mentioned here, probably because the clear supply of the solution can be produced, due to different views on certain issues in the past, certain and turbulence and problems within the ruling coalition. I can say that this program is a hybrid program, as this ruling coalition has been formed, as a hybrid government, despite the fact that we have been hearing a declaration of agreement on certain key issues lately. What falls into the eyes first is the most important thing to mention here is the order of priorities. Compared to the previous two governments, major and fundamental changes in priorities have been made, and thus significant and fundamentally announced policy change. The first priority is not to fight for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, the first priority is not to fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija. This priority falls elsewhere, and we will see to what extent the way that priority is realised is tempered and deviating from what has been defined as state policy. What also falls into the eyes, though repeatedly highlighted in the public as the most important topic - strengthening the government's social responsibility is, behold, the fourth priority of this government. Social policy is fourth. That's what anyone who reads this exposé can clearly see. The first point of this programme is the commitment to Serbia's European future, although the commitment here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004 has been unequivocally confirmed in a resolution brought by this high house. Therefore, one declaration of commitment is nothing more than a repeat of what the political parties have been pointing out here for several years. Let's take the turn. As I said, a major shift has been announced in politics in the state of Serbia, and this government has announced it. The fight to preserve the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia is now the second priority of the government, but is defined as not accepting Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Just when we see how the exposé mentions a policy on Kosovo and Metohija will be conducted, it is very clear that a derogation from an active progressive policy is seen. This policy will be passive policy and repeat what is more or less clear to the entire international community, and that international law is on the side of the Serbian state. We do not have an active policy here that involves the consolidation of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija and even stronger binding, in line with international law and resolutions, Kosovo and Metohija and its clearer integration into the state justice system of the Republic of Serbia, except for what is being potential here, which is, which is perfectly normal and what every responsible government must do, to take care of improving the economic and social situation of Serbs in Kosovo. A clearer, more active policy that involves demonstration, showing that the Republic of Serbia is present in Kosovo and Metohija through its institutions is missing here, except for the passive attitude and repetition of the fact that international law is on the part of the Republic of Serbia, which many countries, unfortunately, have violated. What is also necessary to point out is that here, in many segments, a clear determination is avoided on key issues that burden the public, and the public is looking for an answer. The question of the new government's relationship to the presence of EULEX in Kosovo and Metohija. That's not mentioned in the exposé. The issue here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in December 2007 is clearly defined through the resolution of the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia is not mentioned. I would just like to point out once again that within the framework of this resolution, it is said that no international agreement should be signed if it threatens the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, so a Stabilisation and Association Agreement is signed, and military neutrality is being silenced here. On the basis of our suspicion that the new government will lead a policy of joining NATO's pact. We can suspect that, since this assembly resolution has already been broken once in a very important segment, by signing an agreement that violates the resolution and that violates the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Under this exposé, the UN tribunal is not mentioned. There's one contradiction. The first definition, as the first goal, is the definition of Serbia's European future. In the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it is clear to us that he is legally nothing, but EU representatives have said he does not enter into force until the UN tribunal's co-operation with the UN tribunal, which is not mentioned at all in the context of this exposé. The question arises as to what kind of policy will lead the government of the Republic of Serbia to this issue if it already stands out as its priority for Serbia's European future. There are still a number of topics that were in the previous period in different ways treated by coalition partners. The very exposé mentions the issue of restitution. We do not have a clear view of property issues in the Republic of Serbia, according to the injustices that have been done to our citizens since 1945. Different parties in the ruling coalition voted the opposite when discussions were held on the laws that defined the return of property. Now the restitution is mentioned as one of the government's programme objectives. It is simply that there is a lot of contradiction and contradiction in this exposé that we cannot take the impression that a clear determination is deliberately avoided on issues that are valuablely burdened by the parties within this coalition. Of course, the issue of national minorities, the attitude towards national minorities, we have now seen that representatives of the Hungarian national minority explicitly asked to change the structure of the administrative districts of Vojvodina, which was brought in 1991 by the government of the Republic of Serbia led by the SPS. The representatives of the DS now absolutely agree on the change of that regulation and the fact that municipalities are defined in North-Branatian to the area of North-Borbit County. The question now arises, how will the government of the Republic of Serbia have a say in this matter when the parties that make up the government have treated the problem completely differently. When all these topics are clearly seen, it is seen that there is no willingness within the government to give citizens an answer to the questions that citizens are currently asking to hear. Not to mention the economic aspect. Look, you have here a strong announcement of economic development that implies a very specific fiscal policy that will relieve the economy, which will allow through defined incentives for employment, the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises and business activities, and at the same time you have an announcement of a serious social policy. The question arises, how will the budget be structured to respond to these conflicting demands within the government itself. There is no doubt that strong economic development is needed in Serbia. There is no doubt that this strong economic development contributes to higher employment. There is no doubt that this strong economic development contributes to budgeting. If someone thinks that the budget will be filled from EU accession funds, at this point, that there are no illusions, access funds are not available to us because the SAA is not being applied. The people should not be persistently repeated and deceived that we will have some funds from these access funds, when the SAA has no effect on the state of Serbia, while it is announced that co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which, by the way, is not mentioned in any sentence in this exposé. So let's conclude how to eventually qualify this government. She can't possibly be a national government. It can't be a national government, because key national problems are defined on a lower priority scale. Kosovo and Metohija are not the first question. You do not have the government's position on the issue of Serbs outside Serbia, according to Republika Srpska, according to national policy, according to Serbs in the diaspora. This government doesn't deal with national politics at all. This is not even a socially responsible government because social policy is fourth. This is not even the pro-European government, as pro-European politics is the general place of Serbian politics. This is a contradictory, hybrid government, burdened with internal conflicts and conflict-of-value orientations, which will not do Serbia any good. From this exposé we don't see the program, we don't see the goal, we don't see the mission of this government. That is why our parliamentary group will be a serious critic of this government, concrete and serious, and will vote against it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1161	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina today once again wants to confirm the values it has stood for since its founding. It is the construction of a democratic society, which will respect human rights and freedoms and in which diversity will be considered a wealth and other human rights. It is a decentralised and regionalised Serbia in which citizens will have the right to take responsibility for their lives and to have what they have created. It is a society in which no one will be discriminated or threatened because they think otherwise or belong to another ethnic group. It is a society where young people will get a real chance and where they will be allowed to stay in this country, in which old people will not be discriminated over because of their age. It is Serbia that will be an equal and respected partner in the EU, because it is the only way for its citizens and citizens to live better. It is a society in which the individual, his life and his real fundamental value and in which there can be no higher interests than the rights and freedoms of the citizens and citizens of this country. These values and the desire to create such a society have affected our determination to choose for a partner in the republican elections those parties that they not only want, but can, in co-operation with the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, to bring our society and country closer to our common goal, which is certainly EU membership. This is obviously the goal of Serbian citizens. Citizens have made it clear, both in the presidential and parliamentary elections, that the only way this society should go is the path of democracy, stability, respect for human rights and European values, and thus they have made us all bound to fight uncompromisingly and clearly for this European path. We from LSV, and so many times so far, are obliged to tell the truth because of the citizens who have given support to our policy in these elections. The truth is, we're not too happy about this coalition that's formed. Many things remain unsaid, many questions remain unsettled and many things are not forgotten. That is why LSV will not personally participate in Mr Cvetkovic's government. But because of the same people who showed us trust, we have to say this today. History has taught us many times that a wrong decision in choosing a government can have disastrous consequences. After these elections, we had two options. The first is to form a government in which most would constitute the SRS and whose prime minister would be Vojislav Kostunica. The second option was to form a government with the majority DS and whose prime minister would be someone on the list for European Serbia. If the votes of the five Social Democrats League MPs of Vojvodina can be the ones to rule in this matter, which will decide whether European integration will continue in Serbia or will be interrupted, the League of Social Democrats before the citizens of Vojvodina, has no right to have that kind of luxury now to reconsider, have dilemmas or set conditions. Our choice is clear - Serbia must go to Europe. Serbian citizens must live better. The Vojvodina must have autonomy and Serbia must be decentralised. Vojislav Kostunica, as prime minister in the third term, is unable to provide this to Serbian citizens. The SRS believes that autonomous provinces should not exist. Velimir Ilic systematically robs Serbia, under the mask of even regional development. Vojislav Kostunica is an anti-European. The coalition would distance Serbian citizens from the European Union and thus from their better lives. This coalition doesn't want a future because there's no room for them. In the future, there is no room for Vojislave, Seselj and Kostunica, whose only and highest interest was to satisfy their selfish interests and who have cost this society a lot of life, money and lost years. It is our duty not to give them any more. Unfortunately, Mr Cvetkovic, there is again an exposé in which no mention of Vojvodina or decentralisation of Serbia is mentioned. However, Serbia will not have the opportunity to benefit from the access European funds until it is decentralised, and only then will we have a balanced regional development because it is not possible to have a balanced regional development unless you have regions. So what's being transferred today to the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, even regional development, is, in fact, the essence of the Social Democratic League programme of Vojvodina. Because it's not regional development that one region is paying, while someone else is getting rich at his expense, at the expense of its citizens, and I don't mean some other region, but simply the individuals that have become rich in this way. This means, Mr Cvetkovic, also today because of citizens who supported the League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina, we must clearly say that we expect you to meet what European standards are, and this means for the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina: the return of property to Vojvodina and local self-government, decentralisation and regionalisation of the country, i.e. the transfer of power to Vojvodina and local self-government. This means that salaries and pensions in Vojvodina can no longer be less than those in central Serbia, which means that that shameful figure of 7% must be exceeded and the citizens of Vojvodina must be given the opportunity to have what they have created, which would again imply a change of the Constitution, against which the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina was against, because then we thought and today we stand behind the fact that this constitution is extremely anti-European and that it will have to change if Serbia wants to join the European Union. This means that Vojvodina needs to be watched, we hope and expect from this government as an equal part of Serbia, not as an ATM from which the money that the minister wants it to be. These are all obligations that must be met, as are European standards, and I think that the great support given by the List for European Serbia in Vojvodina in front of you as prime minister makes a new kind of commitment to the citizens of Vojvodina, and that is why we are sure that you will be aware of that and that you will be aware of that commitment to the citizens and citizens of Vojvodina. That is why the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina today is supporting Mirko Cvetkovic to form the government and support the programme that he has been running before this assembly. This government can count on the support of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina until it carries out this exposé. At the same time, however, we are clearly telling you, and we are not ready to give it up, that at no time will we be ready to compromise that raises the objectives you have committed to today in front of us and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1163	Thank you. The word is Mr. National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1164	Thanks to this television broadcast, it is likely that Serbian citizens will have the opportunity to hear something they will not be able to read in the paper, as the dark has become yellow and it will be difficult to see what is happening. Of course, this is the time for the Vojislavs, not for Boris or the evil God, and for these others. Of course it's time for Vojislave, not some maniac named Tadic. I ask you to inform yourself before you sigh, the nickname of the maniac Tadic refers to Ranko Tadic, not Boris Tadic. It's just incomprehensible to me, isn't that how you feel about your president? Ranko Tadic, his nickname is a maniac, a smuggler, one under his bed still has listening apparatus; and he listens to everything in Serbia, and foreign diplomats, politicians, businessmen and, of course, through some people informs his brother from his uncle and then he is able to fold inconsistencies. But let's go back to this topic because it's time for the Vojislavs, not the Cancas, the freaks and the others. According to what was written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the President of the Republic, not a maniac but Boris Tadic, he was obliged to make a proposal according to the Rules of Procedure. He gave us that proposal. The proposal has four paragraphs. The first and last paragraphs refer to something called constitutional basis, and the second paragraph should be an explanation why the President of the Republic proposes Mr Cvetkovic to be a candidate for Prime Minister. And when something is explained, then someone needs to convince us. What did he try to do, not a maniac, Tadic, but Boris Tadic to convince us? He tried the sentences, please take your copies, as in this conference he simply became a read-out of what's already on the table. A few days ago Ratkovic read us the whole bill, today he's running for president of his entire exposé. So the Democratic Party is practicing by reading. Now I'm going to help you with that a little bit. So the explanation behind this reasoning is the European perspective, the European future, Europe now, etc. The explanation for Mr Cvetkovic is - as a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I propose Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, period. The second sentence - I believe, he believes that Mr Mirko Cvetkovic owns professional and personal qualities to perform the post of Prime Minister. Excuse me, please, there are no criteria in the Constitution, which are professional and what are personal qualities. Since it's been in power since 2001 and it's been with, I don't have it, my Vlahovic, half of Serbia has sold, probably it's run for office, or it's that feature that's necessary, that's the missing link. And as Mr. Cvetkovic said the other day, we're having trouble with the budget because we haven't sold anything this year. We've got problems, we haven't sold anything. I see the Sutanovac is justifiably absent, probably selling some barracks or the last gun we have. This isn't a joke. Of course, I'm not going to do your program, your exposé, it's a literary composition for young ladies who apply to colleges, etc. Guys, it's not gonna happen. This is by the system holding water until the masters leave. This country is ruled by Boris Tadic. He will be the President of the Republic, he will be Prime Minister, and Mr. Cvetkovic is some collateral thing, which goes there as a cohesion factor that brings something together, to stay a little while while people live in the utopia of the Euro-Future, the European perspective... Olli Rehn says nicely, what an agreement to join, whether a country from the European Union has ratified an agreement. It's not. On the deal, some received a good number of votes and, of course, for who knows which time, managed to trick voters in Serbia. Can this government accomplish what's written? They know they can't do it. Why? Because if Mr. Boris Tadic wants to do something, so he can't, young lady, then there's big state problems. What are those problems? That the virus doesn't affect the tycoons, so they get a sneeze, so both DS and Boris Tadic blow away. That is the real political reality of this Serbia. We now have a substitute for thesis, we will not recognise independent Kosovo and Metohija, and for Kosovo and Metohija we will fight from the European Union, and the European Union says it will be 2021 and possibly 2071, and probably never. And what about in the meantime? In the meantime, we're going to say the most important thing is pensions, they're important, they're not slow; in the meantime, it's the most important thing for the European future, I don't know why it's so important because these weren't elections for the European Union's parliamentary assembly. What are European values? Well, one lady, two or three of the DS, came out, banged up in the eight-year reign of the DS, and I was too pleased. When I listened to Hope, I was too pleased. I said Hope meets some conditions so it could be a radical. He's so good at criticizing. He's gone, Milosavljevic. How well he brought criticism to the DS account during the election campaign. We put it on our video, where he admits what's been missed, what hasn't been done, how it hasn't been done, why it hasn't been done. So, the cohesion factor and the glue, what it combines, is Boris Tadic, are his personal positions and positions of those who push him to maim Serbia as much as possible. In the end, colleagues from the DS, let me just remind you what the session of your board of directors looked like. Since there was a bit of tension about who, as in the coalition, Mr. Tadic came and said nicely - you, if you want to be MPs, you have to listen to me; you, if you want to continue to be ministers, and drive cars and have secretaries, you have to listen to me; and you tycoons, if you want to continue to have this money so you don't go to jail, you have to listen to me. That's the government I'm forming, and you all have to vote for it. It is the new dictator Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1165	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected Mr. Cvetkovic to respond a moment ago, and I didn't deliberately report after the MP's presentation because I didn't intend to challenge the replicas and to delay this work today in any way. But since you haven't answered, Mr. Cvetkovic, I now call on Article 225(1). Rules of Procedure, I call you and call you to answer whether exactly what the MP said earlier, which is that Boris Tadic promised in your name one part of the ruling coalition, that you did not write it to us, but that you would violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's this book that's a sacred letter, Mr. Cvetkovic. We have just heard that a part of the coalition will not support you unless you have fulfilled the given word that you will carry out the regionalisation of Serbia, that they will not support you unless you have fulfilled the given word that you do not respect a member of the Constitution, that is Article 184 paragraph 3, which speaks of the budget of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and those foreseen by the Constitution 7% in relation to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to regionalisation, we have already quite a fear when it comes to you, i.e. this government of yours, i.e. Boris Tadic, or non-partisan official DS Mr Svetozar Ciplic, who is intended for the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, who not so long ago supported Mr Bosko Ristic in the idea of forming a province of some kind, as they called it. He said at the time that he supported it, that it was the only way that Serbia would function normally, that it only bothers some, he called all those who respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So I'm asking you, Mr. Cvetkovic, to come out right now and tell us, maybe you don't know because you didn't even make a government, that you didn't choose ministers, that you didn't write exposés, maybe Boris Broz didn't inform you about what he was planning. But since you will formally be the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and we know that the yellow dictator Boris Broz will actually be Prime Minister, I ask you to tell the MPs whether you promised someone that you would carry out the regionalisation of Serbia past the Constitution and whether you promised someone that you would change a percentage of the 7% of the funds in relation to the budget of the Republic of Serbia provided for by the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. In one word, do you not write to us whether you will in fact knowingly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia during your term of office? I insist you come out immediately to answer. If you don't, you'll be asked by the other MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1167	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1168	I'm sorry to pick up again, but Mr. Mirko looked at me so hard, I cut myself, so I forgot that very important thing. I use the right under Rule 226 of our Rules of Procedure, because I think it is necessary to give one explanation and I expect it from the leadership of the National Assembly in this large assembly, but not to use Mr. Chiplic's services, he is known for his services. You see, there are provisions of the Constitution, there are provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and we have a fact that six MPs are elected as members of the Government. I purposely say to the members of the government, using the right formulation from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Last year was a very strange situation, when Dusan Petrovic and I thought Milan Markovic and others voted for themselves. It's kind of gone, it's caused a lot of public attention and some interpretations, etc. It would be good, before we get to that act, that these things are sort of being debated so the MPs know how to vote, and I get the impression that the majority of the assembly is very tight, here I see that even Riza Halimi has left, and he doesn't give that coalition support. I think it would be good for someone to inform the ignorant MPs, because in this assembly since DS was in power we have everything and everything, so Hiber and Liliæ were also deluded by law, even though they were professors at the Faculty of Law, but they were mistaken. However, it was resolved by Bosko Ristic. In this distribution, you have no idea what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1169	Thank you. I'm setting a break. We continue our work at 1600 hours and will have the first word of MP Zoran Ostojić. Thank you. [[After break – 16.05]] I give my word to Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1171	President-in-Office, the presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that there is no mandater, Mr Cvetkovic, but I thought I would turn to whoever really put this government together, because the fact that ministers were elected before the mandate proves that the government is elsewhere. According to the head of my MP group, Cedomir Jovanovic, it is good that Boris Tadic has taken responsibility for the government's work, because ultimately he who draws up the government and should take responsibility. The fact is that the exposés we heard this morning are the result of this government's assembling, that first elected ministers, and finally the prime minister, because the ministers knew, and we found out in the end. That is why it seems to me that the exposé was also made as if it were written by officials of the minister, who knew that there would be ministers, full of general places, full of phrases, without any concrete measures on how to achieve a dynamic growth in economic activity, how to increase employment, how to increase the standard of Serbian citizens and how to establish more equal regional development. However, what I expected from Mr. Cvetkovic as an expert is the part relating to the economy. A few more concrete things, but from the 12 pages of the exposé, only part of a sentence is dedicated to the issue of the free market and to the regulation of the monopoly issue. For two years now, the LDP has insisted that a serious debate be opened in our society on issues of monopoly in the economy, especially in trade. For two years, we have been insisting and asking that large capital, which will always have influence, be placed in the right way, to know that it does not affect sides and cabinets, to make it transparent. Unfortunately, the coalition that will make up the majority, and those who hoped to make up the majority, but would not be in the majority, were opposed to opening the question of both Delta and other tycoons. Let's just think of our own initiative to form a survey board. We hope that the government of Mr Cvetkovic when it comes to strengthening competition, which can only lead to a drop in prices in the country, will do much more than can be seen from this 12-page half sentence. We hope that this government will not run a socially irresponsible policy, given that the spine of that government and the prime minister of the party's government, which in the 1990s led a socially irresponsible policy, unless someone wants to convince us that "Bambilend" and "Madona" are hyperinflation, both Jadza and Dafina are examples of socially responsible policies. The fact is that all the economic pawnages we heard in the prime minister's office's exposé cannot be achieved without two things: either inflation or new investments. The fact is that new investments will not be, unless the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement begins, whose ratification we will vote in favour of. But the fact is that in an exposé respect for international law, which would probably be some kind of hidden synonym for co-operation with The Hague court, the arrest of Mladic, Karadzic and Hadzic and their extradition are at the last place of these elements of the programme, which was presented by the mandater. On the other hand, the commitment to Serbia's European future is on the first. One doesn't work without the other. If we are defined, and citizens have also voted in the presidential elections and in these parliamentary elections for this European future, then I guess that means respect for international law and co-operation with The Hague. That is why it is totally unacceptable for me for The Hague to be so shyly mentioned in the mandate exposé and in a paragraph connected with Kosovo. Perhaps it is the product of the compromise of those who made this government, which is probably Mr. Tadic and Mr. Dacic, perhaps it is the product of the fact that Mr. Dacic will be the police minister, perhaps it is the product of the fact that some other difficult decision needs to be made in the SPS, so it must be hidden like this. But we LDP can't support this government without backup. Of course, we prefer this government to the one that would mean the survival of Kostunica in the prime minister's office, but just because we prefer it, that doesn't mean we like it. We have our own programme, we will in everything the government's work and government activities are going to be in line with the LDP programme to support that government. But on this occasion, on the day when the government is elected, we need to express our doubts that the programme for which the citizens voted in such a well-conceived government, with this composition and in the way it was drawn up, can be realized. Mr Cvetkovic announced reforms in the area of privatisation of public enterprises, land and infrastructure. If we have this euphemistically hidden co-operation with The Hague, I suppose because of the Socialists as the main partners in the government, my dilemma, my concern and concern is that the Socialists will react to these measures, such as the completion of the privatisation of social enterprises, state banks, insurance companies, the introduction of competition in the market for infrastructure and municipal activities; whether they accept the privatisation of public enterprises, etc. I'm afraid that this government will be a government of rotten compromises, I'd like to make mistakes, compromises that were made in the formation of this government, but Serbia has lost a lot of time to play and to expect something else to happen rather than to materialise in the government. After all, everyone deserves the government, every nation they deserve, so we'll probably get the government we really deserve this time. But the obligations that stand before citizens, which have shown their will several times over the past few months, will also be obligations for LDP and on this basis we will treat this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1172	The word is Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I must admit that I'm a little bit itchy to comment on the fact that there is no policy at all in the exposé we've heard, not politics in some pervasive sense, but politics in a state sense. I'm not going to talk about it, just to realize that the absence of politics is also politics. This absence of politics worries me because it is not in the interest of the Serbian state, but I fear that the ruling majority, or majority who will choose this government, is not very interested. We are before we know who the prime minister heard from the president of the state one story about what kind of government we choose, which consisted practically of two things. One was the repeat of the mantra on the European Union, and the other, I guess, in order to reach out to future coalition partners, tells us that we are going to make a socially responsible government. First, let me say right away that I haven't heard that some government has said to themselves that it's socially irresponsible and that such a government is at all possible to make, and secondly, I'm a little skeptical because those who talk a lot about honesty usually have some problem with that same honesty, so I think that this ghastly story about the socially responsible government, too, I'm afraid, is not going to give God any results. After all, the prime minister himself in his exposure to social problems, didn't hate me to calculate, devoted exactly 4.1% of the text. This text is actually a completely empty story of beautiful and good intentions. To illustrate this, here's what's really going on in that field. He says pensions will rise 10%. It is excellent, pensioners, or to be precise, the largest number of pensioners, along with all the other socially endangered parts of the population, are socially endangered and very often with very low pensions they cannot meet their most minimal needs of life. But, you know, you don't eat percentages, you eat the real value of pensions that you get. Obviously, an increase in pension funds will cause a whole series of consequences, of course, will increase consumption, Mr. Cvetkovic knows it perfectly well, and what will pensioners get if instead of inflation, which is projected to about 12%, some say it will be 15%, we get an inflation of 20% or 25%. I'm afraid that raise pension will be nothing. Secondly, I don't see the effort to make any changes. Because, you know, when someone on a pension of 100,000, such pensioners have little, they get 10%, they get 110 grand, and the one with a 6 grand pension gets 6,600, which equals starving to that 6 grand pension. Next, you predict for the future that you will raise from 60 to 70% of the pension salaries paid in the next period, therefore, that indexation. It doesn't mean anything again. First, we can't learn elementary mathematics that 10% of the 100 dinars is 10 dinars, and 300 percent of the zero dinars are zero dinars. Who guarantees that the pay level will remain as it is? Third, what does this government intend to do, Mr. Prime Minister was Minister of Finance and will fully understand what I'm asking him, in the field of taxes and contributions? It's not a meaningless question. The Russians reduced taxes and contributions to salaries twice a few years ago, and increased income six times. We are today and everyone knows it, many who own even small companies, don't talk about tycoons, pay their workers officially by giving them minimum wage and giving them the rest on black. Many of them told me very much, if the contributions had been double-declarated, they would have reported the real salary paid to the workers, and we're tied here for the salary. So it's interesting that there's no word in the tax and contribution exposé, but not a word. Finally, two short questions. There's nothing in the exposé that's a world topic right now. I don't think we always have to take over the world's subjects, and that's the question of energy, energy. Second question, food. Some say we can increase food production three times. We about agriculture here have three sentences of extreme principle, and on energy we have nothing, we have no answer to the question of what happens if the barrel of oil is not next year or by the end of the year 144 dollars for a barrel, but 200 dollars for a barrel? We don't have oil, of course, and you know what that's gonna mean for our economy. Finally, although the exposé is full of stories about privatisations, which Mr. Cvetkovic certainly knows a lot about, it is interesting that there is no story of denationalisation. So, we're going to first what one day this country has to pay back to the legal owners to sell, and then all of us as citizens of this country are going to pay for it, because one day it has to be paid. I hope I've given you some issues to think about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1174	Thank you. He's got the word National MP Elena Christmas-Talian.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1175	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the programme of the future Tadic government is only a continuation of the DS-based policy, which could be defined as soon as possible through a formulation with a fanatical sound - the European Union above all else, or the European Union at all costs. Before Mr Cvetkovic was presented, we already had the opportunity to hear from Mr Tadic at the Socialist International Congress in Greece that the priorities of the new government are rapid European integration. This was not mentioned during Kosovo and Metohija. The exhibition mentions the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, but it is a recognizable political platform of the Democratic Party, which has been served and imposed by the public in the flossula - both Kosovo and Europe, which, by the way, we have so far convinced, the Democratic Party interprets essentially and implements exactly as I said at the beginning - it is the European Union at all costs. Kosovo and Metohija only exist in rhetoric there. So how will the future government preserve Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia? The future government is a continuity with Tadic's policy so far, the Democratic Party's policy. There has been absolutely nothing in practice so far that has suggested a desire to preserve Kosovo and the Serbia-based Metohija. Therefore, there is no tendency to preserve the integrity of the state or to seek a way to establish full sovereignty. Of course, it's quite clear why. Kosovo and Metohija are a key point that determines the relationship to the European Union. Tadic's government is not a comprehensive Serbia in the European Union. You agree to any, and dismembered Serbia, as long as you are convinced that such a Serbia is on its way to the European Union. According to all, an illegal European Union mission in Kosovo is being accepted silently. Eulex has the mandate to implement Ahtisaari's plan and to worry about Kosovo's independence. Thus, it also indirectly accepts Kosovo's independence. The interpretation of the SAA with members of the European Union is also avoided. It is a tragic and devastating fact that it is ready to give up its own state's defences. It is not and will never be able to be called co-operation with the European Union, it is mere meeting the requirements. The attitude of the new government towards Kosovo and Metohija shows Mr Goran Bogdanovic's choice for Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Bogdanovic was the only Serbian minister in the Kosovo government, Bajram Rexhepi, in charge of the agriculture portfolio. The government remained until the next October 20th, 2004. There are no written clues, no statements by Mr Bogdanovic from that period that could have led to the conclusion of what Mr Bogdanovic was doing, what he stood for, what problems he was facing, and whether he was doing anything at all. Mr. Bogdanovic has agreed to be a minister in the government of Bajram Rexhepi, so a man suspected of being involved in crimes against members of the Yugoslav and police military. Also, Mr Bogdanovic sat in the prime minister's government, which as the main goal of his political action, said he would not give up representing Kosovo's independent policy. That's what Rexhepi said in his first interview as Prime Minister of the Voice of America. Here is a statement describing the effect of Mr Bogdanovic in the Kosovo government. Mr Bogdanovic told the National Journal on 8 February 2003: "The relations in the government are correct. They let me say at the pay phone and suggest everything I have, and then they usually outvote me by rejecting my proposal and so I can't say that I'm okay in that government." After that, Mr Bogdanovic continued to sit in the government. At a time when MPs of the Return Coalition, whose member he was, boycotted the work of the Kosovo Assembly due to murals in the hall of the assembly that were glorifying Albanian terrorists, Bogdanovic did not consider that he had reason to leave his ministerial post. The only result of his work and participation in the Kosovo government -- giving the government legitimacy. Mr. Bogdanovic did two things as a minister, must be admitted. He made his way into his village outside his house and wrote a letter to the Security Council. If he had written this letter, Mr Bogdanovic discovered in February 2008 at the Tribune in the centre of NK Media, when he talked after years about the abduction of Serbian property in Kosovo and Metohija, although it was meant to alarm the public at the time of his minister. So he says -- I was in the Kosovo government when UNMIK's illegal decision to start privatisation was made, etc. It goes on to say - then I wrote about it to the Security Council, and hence we received a ambiguous answer - and Bogdanovic concludes that the sale is illegal, and the Security Council is abulating illegal behaviour. Bogdanovic was simultaneously an MP for the Serb list in the Kosovo Assembly and an MP for the Serbian Parliament in 2007. On the contrary to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, it is truly amazing how he managed to fulfill all his obligations. Mr. Bogdanovic is very successful in using his privileges. So the official car of the Kosovo government continued to be used as a former minister, which means that the official vehicle was used at a time when Ramush Haradinaj, the biggest criminal in the area, was elected as prime minister. It is the future minister for Kosovo and Metohija. It is unclear how a man with such a biography will successfully care for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. But the most realistic relationship between the parties to Kosovo and Metohija will be seen when the SAA is in session. And if we now exclude the story of the economic disadvantage or the validity of this agreement by Serbia, there is another important thing about this agreement. The media and parties have created a deafening and frenetic noise in the mutual debate on the SAA, and in particular the DS in stressing that this agreement is a civilizational step, stories of upcoming prosperity, visa waiver, etc. Again today, we had a chance to hear from Mrs. Hope Kolundjia. However, the most important fact has been marginalised in this civilization's upheaval, which is that the EU Council of Ministers has made a decision -- that the practical application of the SAA is practically automatically put out of force immediately after signing, until full co-operation with The Hague tribunal is met. That means the SSP is a dead letter on paper. In this way, Serbian citizens in the pre-election campaign are also completely deceived, as this fact is not presented to them in the right way. Now that we add to this fact the fact presented by Mr. Rasim Ljajic, which is that after the release of Ramus Haradinaj and Naser Oric there is no man in Serbia -- who does not think that court is a political, not a legal institution. Mr Ljajic also asked the tribunal's point of view, and the issue has been raised by the professional public for years. In this context, the question to the new government is -- how will full co-operation be achieved with the tribunal, which is a condition for European integration? Ratko Mladic is not in Serbia, otherwise he would be arrested, so Ratko Mladic will never be arrested. The question remains how basic conditions for European integration will be met. Why do those you call friends set you up with impossible conditions? On the side of your willingness to unspeakably accept the fulfillment of any request. When it comes to the fight against crime and corruption, and we heard in today's exhibition, it is one of the priorities before the government goes into this fight, I think the future Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, has an obligation to clarify to the citizens of Serbia the accusations made by the president of the Anti-Corruption Council, Verica Barac. I'll quote what was published in the press. "When Cvetkovic was timely elected finance minister, the president of the Anti-Corruption Council, Verica Barac, estimated that the DS's move had been fiercely baffled. Cvetkovic participated in at least 88 suspicious privatisations from 2003 to 2004, as the first man of the Privatisation Agency. One of Cvetkovic's greatest sins is that, at the time he was head of the Agency, he was also the CEO of Ces Mekon, which the same agency often hired. It's obviously a terrible conflict of interest. All the privatisations ended in a narrow circle of people and a magical triangle: the Economic Institute, "Diloit and shower", "Ces Mekon". After all, of course, there are all-powerful parties, their tycoons, financiers who don't account for anyone," Barachev said then. "Mirko Cvetkovic, director of the Privatisation Agency, is, at the same time, the executive director of the Ces Mekon company, which works to assess the value of the assets, the economic and financial audit of the business, as well as other financial management jobs, which is the most direct conflict of interest. In the first set of accelerated auction privatisations for about 1,000 companies, the value assessment worked precisely "Ces Mekon", for which about two million dollars were paid to this form, whose executive director Mirko Cvetkovic. In doing so, this job "Ces Mekon" did not win in competition with others, because the tender for choice (do you sometimes keep peace in the hall) of an auditory house that will evaluate companies that are going to fast auction sales is not called. Ces Mekon was registered in the court register of the Trade Court in Belgrade under number 1-25679 and emerged from the consulting company Mekon, founded in 1989 by Zvonimir Nikezic. This is important, because Zvonimir is the father of Dusan Nikezic, and Dusan is the assistant director of Mirko Cvetkovic's agency. Junior Nikezic, as an assistant to Cvetkovic, is in charge of analysis and this service, among other things, estimates how certain companies will be privatised. Simplifiedly, a son can be said to help his father get a job. Cvetkovic and Nikezic are thus two of the most obvious examples of conflict of interest in the most sensitive area of privatisation. Also, Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic writes "Kurir", "he damaged the state budget by about 7.6m euros", according to a source of the nearby Serbian government. "According to this, the current minister, as director of the Privatisation Agency, has agreed with buyer DIN, the company Philip Morris, that the state is costing to retire voluntarily and thus made millions of euros. Afterwards, businessman Cedomir Backovic argues that the Privatisation Agency, while headed by Mirko Cvetkovic, had numerous malversions and obvious examples of conflicts of interest. According to him, he contacted the Agency in mid-2001 as a potential buyer and asked for a brochure that would bring the privatisation process closer to him and explain the way he participated in it. A counter-office officer at the agency's entrance referred me to the consulting house "Ces Mekon" on Dubrovnik Street, arguing that I could find a privatisation manual with them that is the only valid one. The first thing that surprised me at the Ces Mekon was the price of a book of 250 German marks, but an even bigger surprise welcomed me on her first page. The publisher lists the house "Ces Mekon", authored Branko Radovic - Jankovic, executive director of the Privatisation Agency, and the reviewers then director of the agency Mirko Cvetkovic and privatisation minister Aleksandar Vlahovic, the Backović story. "By seeing the above handbook, it is clear that at a price of 250 marks and a circulation of 2,000 printed copies, the signatories of the handbook have earned three hundred thousand marks on this scale. "In the end, just to realize that it is good that the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina does not participate in the government, given the fascist statement made by Miss Jerkov, who said that in this ideal society that, in her opinion, comes with a new government, a society without discrimination, a society of diversity, a democratic society of equal rights and opportunities, there is room for everyone except Vojislave.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1176	The People's MP, Mr Vladan Batic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr future Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the future ministers, I want to say a few things on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia about this exposé and about the future government. As far as the government's priorities are concerned, I'd like to point out that there are some, if you will, conceptual or Semantic mistakes. The definition of a European future, of course, is the priority of all priorities and objectives, but in itself does not mean much. Serbia began its European future in January 2001 with the government of Zoran Djindjic. What does commitment to the European future mean now? Do we have any Asian, African, or other futures? Failure to accept Kosovo's independence is completely fine. That's what everyone agrees with, but that's not enough in itself. That's our attitude. We should worry about Kosovo's future and about Kosovo's position in relation to Europe and the environment. Further, strengthening the government's social responsibility. This is where half the ministers from the previous government sit. Does this mean that in the previous session you were socially irresponsible or does it mean something else - that new partners, above all DS, will strengthen that social responsibility? This inevitably brings us together at the time of the greatest inflation in mankind's history, lines for bread, milk, oil, for those cans and bottles of gasoline, "debts, foreign exchanges, foreign exchanges" on every corner. Is that a guarantee of the government's greater social responsibility? This last finding -- respect for international law, that can't be the goal. It's not a priority, it can only be a means or method to achieve the wave of all goals. Even the term "International Law" is too broad a term. Under methods or means should have been said - EU law, because we cannot even agree with certain segments of international law belonging to the Anglo-Saxon Law Corps, etc. Just a few words about this first priority - the European future. It is good that it is said and it can be welcomed by anyone, that the EU candidate target is realised by the end of the year. But you left out one detail. The goal is related to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, or even more specifically and more specifically, for the extradition of Ratko Mladic. You had to tell who would do it, who would arrest and hand over Ratko Mladic, so we could be candidates for the European Union at all. I have already begun to listen that the new coalition partners mention that the three remaining Hague indictees are no longer in Serbia, so we cannot arrest or extradite them. Gentlemen, Europe is going to ask you to do it at least if they're on Mars, and now we see that it's coming to Mars. I guess that's where there's trying to make some analogy, I don't know, with Croatia or Gotovina, but Gotovina was cooperating, Croatia did it much more elegantly. I do not believe that Mladic will agree to the role of Tolimir and the unskilled scenario that Tolimir will move over the bridge on Drina to Bratunac, so that he is not arrested in Serbia but elsewhere. So much for that. Just a few more details about something that's become a flossula lately -- a national reconciliation. It is fairer to say, both semantically and telelogically correct, party reconciliation, because you cannot say national reconciliation if two parties settle, and especially one of them who is not a representative of this majority part of the electoral body, to which, for example, the SRS belongs. So it's not national, it's party or party reconciliation. If we're talking about the vision, the perspectives and the future of this government, I have respect for the DS and its motives. I'm sure they truly want a quick path to Europe and its integration. It's the only way Serbia has. Also, I expect the new coalition partner to give up the works of his past, the works of Milosevic's radical, tragic policies, the columns of refugees, exodus, the tanks with corpses, the killings of the Ibar master, the killings of Stambolic, the verdicts that have been made. It's the only way we can talk about some real future of a new government. In addition to my sympathy for my friends from the DS, I have some personal motives here, because in this government, there is one part of my long-standing parliamentarians, long-standing associates and my students. Depending on the fulfillment of these conditions will be my commitment to support this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1178	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1179	Madam President, gentlemen of Parliament, every government should be a team, act and decide in harmony, that there are strong ministers. There should be a joint program that everyone supports. Your government, Mr. Cvetkovic, which you have proposed has 27 members from 11 or, if we look beyond, 19 parties, and members of these parties represent as many different views as political and even more economically. In my opinion, these economic attitudes are absolutely uncompromising. The government you've proposed already looks like an up-and-coming orchestra. In the election campaign, your coalition announced a smaller and more efficient and cheaper government, fewer ministries and agencies, and here's what we got. There is almost no example of a larger government in the largest countries in the world, America has 15, Germany 13, Czech Republic 14, Slovenia 15. How many State Secretarys, Assistant Ministers, Associates, Advisors, etc. will be there to settle all party appetites. I also have to point out that the cost of forming such a massive government will be high, which will again be felt by our citizens and businesses first and foremost. Every revision of our budget, monetary policy and economic reform process from the World Bank, we get criticism that our country is expensive, that our economy is weak to fund such a administration and that 41% of public spending in the gross social product is the upper limit that we cannot cross. We are now turning into a phase of an accelerated increase in public consumption, with a deterioration in its structure. Salaries in the public sector continue to increase rapidly and have already reached a quarter of the total budget. As for pensions, instead of increasing investment and reducing the burden of pay by taxes and contributions, we reduce taxes on businesses, which is crucial for increasing employment, it is proposed to increase the average of pensions at a level of 70% of the average wage. Already, the burden of pay and retirement is too high for the economy. This is one of the reasons why many investors today choose other investment destinations. Just to point out, this relationship in Greece and Slovenia is 40%, Germany, V. Britain and Denmark, 35%, in Croatia and BiH, less than 55%. I want you to understand, 40% of the salary of 1,000 euros is much more than 70% of the salary of 300 euros. The government of the Republic of Serbia should aim at increasing wages and raising the standard of living, not to meet completely mindless party promises. My particular concern is the fact that this government does not have a clear economic programme or a clear strategy. All I heard was that this was going to be a socially responsible government. What does that mean? In the past few days, I have spoken to the ten most likely Serbian economists, large businessmen, and no one has been able to give me an answer as to what the socially responsible government means. I must say, everyone laughed like that. Does that mean that the previous governments were irresponsible? Let me add, in recent history, from 1987 to 1999, several governments were selling us an illusion of social responsibility. Even for wars, especially for inflation in 1993, social reasons and care for the helpless were explained. Just that this isn't that social responsibility, because that's when we got to pay and pension from two to three marks. Public consumption is one of the main inflation generators, and in the exposé you said you would achieve a 12% drop in inflation from this year to 4% in 2012. I responsibly argue that this public spending cannot be done, and I would also like to stress that at these world market oil prices, this is impossible, because the forecast is that even the world's most developed countries in 2012 will have an inflation of 3.5 to 4%. A few things weren't mentioned. Not one word mentions the professionalization of the state administration, but merely its rationalisation. There is no mention of ecologicality in any word, and environmental protection, and today it is the main theme of the G8 Summit. In no word did you mention the NIP, although we introduced a new ministry. Also, I've come across one interesting thing, although it's not economical, that in no word did you say anything about national minorities, although this government would not be without the support of national minorities. You stated that the main objective of your socially responsible government will be to enter the country into the European Union and that this will happen by the end of the term of office of your government or by 2014. It wasn't said how to make it happen. I believe that EU entry, in the best of conditions, is not possible before 2018. Even if we enter in 2012, there is no plan to develop our economy by then, what awaits us in other segments that are related to the economy, such as security, the judiciary, what our plans and actions are about Kosovo and Metohija, what about the unemployed. We must progress before we enter the European Union. This government must be either reform or social. It can't be reform and social. It can't be, like in a proverb, and goats and money. As for employment, I have not heard that there is a clear scenario regarding continued employment efforts, and today we have more than 800,000 unemployed. You promised that the number would be reduced by 200,000 by the end of the government's mandate, with no real data or support for the projection being provided. It's important to ensure pension growth, you say, but it's much more important for us to allow people to work to gain even the right to retire. As far as agriculture is concerned, she's still on her own. The agricultural budget remains very symbolic compared to the size of the farmland and the number of cattle, which are precisely for these reasons year by year are shrinking. Our agricultural subsidy budget is slightly higher than 200 euros, while in Croatia it is 350, although its arable area is two times smaller than ours. As for energy, you mentioned in the exposé the privatisation of public enterprises operating in infrastructure activities. I guess, I just assume that you had in mind the Elektroprivreda of Serbia or the EPS, since from one of your interviews I was on May 8th, it seems to me in "Politice", I read that. You are in favour of privatising Serbia's Elektroprivreda and its place in the country's economy as a problem, not as a solution to possible economic growth. I am personally, as well as my party, totally against the privatisation of Serbia's Elektroprivreda today, as this would cause enormous damage to Serbia, the economy. The price of electricity today is social and absolutely underestimated compared to the regional price. In today's sale of Serbia's Elektroprivreda, you would have caused a huge economic loss to the Republic of Serbia, but I am sure that by investing in Serbia's Elektroprivreda in the next few years, in particular in Kolubara A, Kolubar B, Kostolac, Hydrocentre on the Drina, by investing in three to five billion euros and later out at a real price, such as in the region, the EPS value increased several times and that the value would be close to 30 billion euros over 5-6 years. As far as regional development is concerned, it is mentioned only in one phrase, and it is not mentioned how this will happen, whether other infrastructures will develop, say the Danube River, as one of our greatest potentials. Also, no single word has mentioned the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia today and how you intend to reduce it. This is very indicative because I assume the government doesn't consider our foreign debt to be something significant. One of our biggest problems is the constant work of deficits in external trade. It reached about 6.5 billion euros last year, and today a strong dinar course favours only the import lobby, destroys domestic economy, and especially exporters. There was no word on that. Production, in your exposé, Mr. Cvetkovic, you haven't mentioned it recently. You did not mention the possibility of setting up a development bank, if we want to increase exports, etc. But how? As for some projects, like the automotive industry you mentioned, I assume you were referring to a contract with the Fiat, but I have to say that the deal with the Fiat today is only based on a memo. The contract only implies a guarantee and a certainty that work will come. Your coalition partners' announcements said the Fiat was interested in coming to Serbia to export to the Russian market. But I need to inform you that on June 7th, a month ago and a few days ago, Fiat signed two contracts in St. Petersburg, with Soles, Russia's largest car manufacturer on "joint Venture" for production 50. 1,000 "fiata line" and 90,000 diesel engines for "off road" vehicles. Both of these contracts are starting to come true by the end of this year. Also, we need to be clear, if anyone counts on exporting to the Russian market without customs, then they'll have to be ready to lift customs duties and import vehicles from Russia. Now I have one very important thing, Mr. Cvetkovic, I would like to ask if you can answer us today, because I think it's important for your coalition partners as well. In your exposé, you mentioned that we would sign a gas agreement with Russia, or "Gasprom". But, quote, you mentioned a gas deal. I have a document in front of me called the "Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation in co-operation in the area of oil and gas economy". Did you deliberately forget this oil section? Is this your definition or is this just a printing error? I would ask you to answer us once again, does this future government in the program only want to sign a gas agreement or a gas and oil deal? Why am I asking this? Because in the previous period, there were insistences by some of your ministers to separate the NIS privatisation from a gas and oil deal with the Russian Federation, as it may also be an attempt by some other stakeholders to stand in the way of the "Gasprom" arrival in Serbia. I just want to say that the arrival of Gazprom in the oil industry of Serbia would mean that we are buying oil in the future at this huge price, the largest in history, directly from the manufacturer, at the lowest prices possible, not from resellers. This way raises the gas deal, if this is a commitment, because then we can question the realization of the best economic agreement for Serbia in the last 40 years. In the exposé, you wrote about the investment from the budget that large infrastructure projects will be financed from regular budget revenues and loans. I have to express my concerns about the announcements that the state is starting to deal with entrepreneurship. In addition to our empty state register, it is now announced that we will continue to be in debt on the domestic market, which is on the foreign financial market. All successful countries today come out of businesses that can run through the private sector, and remain in businesses only where natural monopolies exist, so that someone doesn't take advantage of that fast-rich space. Since Margaret Thatcher, this has been the premise of success in public sector management. Without such lucid ideas of borrowing to invest, we're already too in charge. For all investments of which there are interested private investors, conditions should be created so that they are financed, without the state being damaged, nor more in charge than it has to be. Also, no word has mentioned public and private partnerships as a possible source of funding for these projects, although it is practice, the main practice in the EU. As for Kosovo and Metohija, great social and legal security and economic insecurity is tolerated by our residents in Kosovo and Metohija. As for this address, I have heard nothing about how we will employ more than 80,000 Serbs in Kosovo. We also constantly advocate that Serbia must invest, develop production, but almost nothing is said about it. In Kosovo today, almost nothing is produced, everything is bought either from Serbia or from countries in the region. We must take advantage of that and maintain the market positions of our companies in the province. Unfortunately, I also haven't heard you think about this in your exposé. Without Kosovo and Metohija, any thinking of Serbia as a prosperous country is an illusion, as only naive hosts can build their wealth on the sale of grandfatherland. If you do not, Mr Cvetkovic, all so that Serbia and its inhabitants do not recover the state, social and private property that the Albanians, the temporary administration, usurped, we can consider, not that it was taken away, but that it was donated. I'm asking you to do everything you can to make sure that doesn't happen. There is no greater power than economic interest. Therefore, I suggest you fight for Kosovo and Metohija with the strength of economic principles and projects that the government must launch urgently because Kosovo is best defended by the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1180	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to since Mr Popovic spoke of this as the largest government and since there are probably objections that there are political trades and that it was necessary to settle certain political parties, I would like to introduce Mr Popovic to you: this government has 26 members, plus the 27th Prime Minister Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic. In a proposal given to me by your party president and Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, which we discussed at a meeting where we were Mr Vojislav Kostunica, Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Nikitovic and I, this was the DSS proposal: DSS - 7 members of the government, the SRS - 15 members of the government, within 15 members of the government, the SPS-PUPS-JS - 4 members of the government and the Bosniak List - 1; so 7 plus 15 is 22, plus 4 is 26, plus 1 is 27. When we had objections to these capital investments, because we felt it should separate, we agreed to introduce a 28th member of the government, who would be in charge of the NIP. So please don't use these arguments anymore because it was a proposal that you made here. If you haven't had any objections to the proposal that you made, then it's not right to be the only reason why you're attacking this number of ministries that are here on the agenda, since you mentioned the SPS and those days I just wanted to draw your attention to that. Whether it's true or not, the colleagues in the SRS know that and, of course, it wasn't a secret meeting. At these meetings we participated Mr Milutin Mrkonjic and Zarko Obradović, and myself. I don't think that's bad at all, that's a suggestion. But if this were the biggest government, it would be the second largest government, which was proposed in 28, but I don't think it would be a bad government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1182	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1183	Just a short replica, Mr. Dacic. If that government were formed at 28, I would also criticise it, perhaps not in the Assembly, but I would certainly criticise it internally in every way. That government you're talking about, I don't know, I wasn't involved, you know, Mr. Dacic, in the negotiations at all, I wasn't involved in it, you know, it'd also be massive, but that government wasn't formed. This government is forming, probably, and it is the biggest and it is the most expensive. I stay every word I say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1184	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic, the replica to Mr. Dacic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1185	Mr Dacic, it is very unusual that today, when he is to be elected minister in the government, in a political combination that is in front of all of us, you are waving some kind of paper that should prove that negotiations between DSS-NS, the SRS and the SPS-PUPS-JS once existed. The public knows that. We all know we've been negotiating. We all know why this government isn't educated. We all know that this has nothing to do with the number of ministries, but that it has something to do with something else, with another combination that you have entered, which has to do with giving up the principles of protection of national interests and the integrity of the state, because that's what you left behind, and what else you have accepted, for whose grandmother health, you don't even know for yourself, because you don't see it from the Prime Minister's exposé or mandate. You could have helped him write that miracle he read to us today. You have more political experience, you're much better at it. You could've helped a man to make it look like something, not that we've been going out all day and criticizing the gap that stands on that paper. That's what's the key. What is even more crucial, it is possible that anything negotiated, it is possible that talks on 150 ministries have taken place in these talks, it is possible that, perhaps 1500, but today we are not discussing it. Today we are discussing this strange formation that you will form with the Democratic Party, where you will be the transmission of wishes, the expensive wish of Boris Tadic, who is sitting in the building across from us, where you will be the only marked figure of the government, on which I congratulate you, because I believe you are the only serious person in that government with political experience, but you will be the only real transmission of the political centre of power sitting in the Serbian presidency. That's what's on the agenda today, and what someone was talking about, what he was putting on some paper, which we can see that the hand was written, I can't slow it down. It's not the subject of conversation at all. If someone tells you today that the structure you've built together and the largest one, it's a fact. Whether or not another structure was discussed in earlier moments, which has never been realized, that's another question. What is there to whom he proposes is a particular question, because what you said and what Zarko Obradovic said on your behalf here, at the times when we discussed the Law on Government, that is, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Government and the Law on Ministry, did not first correspond to the truth. There are colleagues from the SRS, those who attended the negotiations, who can confirm. At the time, it was said, allegedly, that we then promised that you, Mr. Dacic, would get the post of deputy prime minister. We may have, but we never promised to pass such a radical and unconstitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act, which this majority has passed. We never promised that, we never promised it would be in that form, and that form is not small, that form is much. Because that form destroys the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You need to think about it, and you need to think about a lot of other things. I'll leave you enough time for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1186	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1187	I thank Mr. Aligrudic for these nice words to me, but I had no intention of provoking anyone with what I said, I just wanted to say - don't measure any political moves by whether you or anyone else did it. I never told the DSS last time they voted Tomislav Nikolic for Parliament President, and after five days they voted Kostunica and with the same team, Tadic, for Prime Minister, that you had issued a national policy. You're not. The SPS has not changed its policy, protection policy of national and state interests, preservation of Kosovo and Metohija. No one has the right to respect the SPS. At least we tried to defend Kosovo and Metohija by all means. Whether or not we have succeeded, you all appreciate it, but whether someone has made a coalition with one or another is no reason for us to give each other such political assessments. I brought this up because I heard qualifications that this government is too bulky, among other things, and because of some of our demands, etc. That's not true. The same thing, and even more, you offered the same thing, but this isn't about who it's about, this is about whether or not there's a parliamentary majority and what principles it's based on. As far as we're concerned, the political principles were about the same as those when we spoke to the DSS. I just wanted to say that the proposal for the number of ministries I received from Vojislav Kostunica, and there was Tomislav Nikolic, who was 27, was not the number of ministries but the number of members of the government, and later that number was increased by another ministry. I'm sorry if I specifically inspired someone to pollute with me, but there's no reason to say that we changed our political agenda to make a coalition with someone, Mr. Aligrudic. I'm sure the opposition also has marked political figures. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1188	The word is Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1189	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Since I'm mentioned, to say something to Mr. Aligrudić, no offense to you, I don't bring your personality and function into question at all, but I trust myself and what I've heard more than what you are convinced of. Do not involve colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party in the story of the deputy president because they did not participate. He was the president of your party, who was the Prime Minister, head of the cabinet of Prime Minister Dacic, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and I and no one else. So what you're told is that it's your interpretation of what was discussed and I stand behind every word I said the other day. Yes, there were words about the vice president, but now you don't like to talk about it, and you insist on that, that's your problem. That's your problem, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's That's what you have to deal with. If you don't, it's your right again, but you can't misinformed the public, especially in the context of the fact that you didn't participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1190	Mr. Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1191	Mr Dacic, the example you set to honor the Democratic Party of Serbia, some inconsistency when it comes to the election of Tomislav Nikolic as Parliament president, is completely inadequate. You know how the election took place, so the president of the National Assembly was not elected for two months and because certain deadlines stood out, which set the deadline for the government's election at the time. It was simply a request for the congregation’s majority that could not be formed. At the very beginning of the talks then, among all of us, it was said to choose a person for the speaker of the assembly, who would at least technically lead the assembly, to the election of a new government, to the election of the president of the assembly. That's how it happened. It's the result of this tension and this tension, and it's already been explained once and for all. As far as policy change is concerned, I can take your word for everything you say, I can even believe that you honestly, perhaps personally think that you haven't changed that policy, but you know how, in political practice, in the work of the National Assembly and the state authorities, only what is realistically seen and what the paper is suffering. What this paper, which the prime minister handed over to us this morning, has suffered, there is no word of support for any of what you've decorated when it comes to national politics. There's nothing there. Perhaps you, as vice-president of the government, who will be a prominent and more significant figure than the Prime Minister himself, will fail that policy and distinction beyond every piece of paper, but what is shown to us today, what we have imagined, has nothing to do with it. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Beard, you need to listen more carefully to what I'm saying so you can replicate successfully. In fact, I have not denied for one moment the possibility that there was a discussion between our two political parties about the possible position of Deputy Prime Minister, but I firmly denied what you said was promised to pass the same law or law with such a meaning. There's never been a word about that. It was only said that the position of changing prime ministers in certain moments in the government would be done by the government's internal act. That's reliablely true, what I'm telling you. If that's not true, come out and tell me. So that's what I was saying in the context of the adoption of a domestic and non-constitutional law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and not in the context of an explanation of the flow, we redistributed the content of the negotiations that were held.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1192	Mr Tomislav Nikolic answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1193	I don't know if I'm attending the wrong session or how many times I should ask SPS and DSS to leave the stories behind about what happened. It's only till Monday, so we'll know who's gonna tell who. One more thing. Don't reveal what we talked about, it doesn't make sense. What they're going to think is yellow about you when you discover what you've been talking to us about, so you're going to find out what you've been talking to them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They were run here, so they made it. Don't provoke conflicts, we need to form power in Belgrade. We made a deal and we gave each other our word. There people make performances every day in a very nice and democratic, fully European way of asking for what they deserve in the elections to be made possible. Don't make this a cause now that there's no authority in Belgrade. When I can keep quiet, you can wait and shut up. They'll give God, we'll say anything to each other, but really, please, we're a coalition in Belgrade. If I'm supposed to be the oldest one to keep that coalition up until Monday, I'm ready. Please, young people, there's a lot of blood in your head, wait till Monday, and then we'll know what's gonna happen and how it's gonna be. I don't like what you're doing at the DSS, nor do I like what Mr. Ivica Dacic does. It's like you're all looking for an excuse for something. Well, at least tell us if you need an excuse or not. If you don't need an excuse, we have no right to argue. Or you want to convince me that you love yellows, and here I see you don't fight. What calms you now - the desire to have common authority. I guess we have a common desire to have common authority in Belgrade, so that should calm us down, not cause conflicts between us. Was there anything promised, was it this, was it that? When I ask you to let us finish this session, we really have conflicts and cooperation ahead of us. There's time for everything, you listen to me, there's time for a fight, there's no time for a good life, and you'll have time for a fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1194	Mr. Aligrudic, replica. I'm sorry, he's giving in to you. Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1195	Since Mr Nikolic was not in the O.R., I only reacted to Mr Popovic's statement concerning the number of ministries. Otherwise, I just can't say no to something that isn't correct to the SPS and there's no reason for such a thing to happen, but I accept Tomislav Nikolic's invitation to choose this government of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1196	I will rely on the words of my predecessor and his desire to choose as soon as possible the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We don't all share that wish, because I think every day with this Government of the Republic of Serbia it's going to be an accident for this country, so I'm in no hurry, and even when it happens tonight, I'd like it to go by as soon as possible. It's a very simple thing. As far as other matters are concerned, I am not quite inclined to accept the flat-rate or instruction or good, well-intentioned efforts of our colleagues in the Assembly, especially the president of the SRS parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, because I am afraid that, at least when it comes to the DSS, it is not exactly in the context of what I was talking about. All of which we were reporting for the word, including these replicas of mine, applied exclusively to a policy that did not exist, which is the policy of Mirko Cvetkovic and his empty parliamentary paper that came before us this morning and that is why we are discussing it. That's the basis of my call for discussion. Every time I've been allegedly challenged by a fellow SPS, I haven't forgotten to mention it. It's a central place. I don't have any problem with my SPS colleagues, they have a problem with themselves, but it's no problem with other levels of government. Do not respect that my speeches or anything I say here can lead to this or sound like an alibi to disrespect any agreement on any side that has been signed for one level of government, such as the city of Belgrade. If that's the case, and if these are my words, and the stenogram can be taken, I can serve as an alibi or a basis for withdrawal from the contract, the party that signed that contract, then it can't be a sure question for me from the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1197	Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that these last few days and weeks, political life in Serbia has been experiencing the peak of its distaste. All that has been happening since the time of the constitutive session of the Assembly, such a assembly and the Assembly's emissary combination and counting, speak and point to the conclusion that in Serbia in the future, at least when it comes to politics, nothing can happen which is a surprise or something unexpected. I will remind you, in the last few days, we have experienced that MPs of the majority of the assembly applaud themselves, for at one point they have provided 126 MPs to continue the session. Mr. Bosko Ristić assured us that everything not explicitly forbidden by the Constitution is not impossible, we have experienced that you write and re-adopt laws that you did not comply with the Constitution, but with the personal needs and ambitions of individuals who will make a political establishment in Serbia in the coming period. In such an atmosphere, parliament in Serbia is due today to elect a government that will run Serbia and, of course, the political platform on which the government will rely. Mr. Cvetkovic, today I would not comment on the personal composition of your government because you didn't even make it. Perhaps I would refer a little bit to the political platform, or the political concept that you will be managing, which I suppose you have tried to translate into this exposure, and I will touch it because I think it is very bad, because it represents the continuity of a policy which in Serbia suffered in 2000 and which destroyed our economic system, the political system, our national values, our cultural system and everything else. What are the three things I'd like to deal with? It's social justice, national reconciliation and so on. European integration, everything you've offered us in the past eight years. When you say you're offering social justice, I ask a question for a reason: what are the economic parameters on which you base such an offer? Is that the growth of social gross product, is that the reduction of public consumption, is that the external trade surplus, are these the new jobs you've been offering these eight years? I don't think there's anything in Serbia, and that's what the economic public in Serbia is saying, the experts of the Economic Institute, where you've been, and I don't think it's too responsible to offer social justice just because you brought the Socialists into the government. What is a bit of a highlight of malacity is the fact that social justice ideology today in Serbia is selling to those who, in eight years' time, the authorities in Serbia, as modern as it is today, have saved us 8, 12 or 13m euros. You're talking about national reconciliation. About national reconciliation, you are the generator and the inspiration of all divisions in Serbia for the last eight years. To remind you, you've divided us into advanced and backward, you've divided us into European and anti-European, you've divided us into citizens of first and second order, and now you want to calm us down. Today, the two political parties are at peace in Serbia. I would not even say that the parties are at peace but only the presidency of the two political parties and I think it is too small to hide all the divisions and divisions you have sown in Serbia in the last eight years. The fact is that in Serbia today national trust is objectively needed. In recent months or years, the SRS has shown that it is absolutely ready for such a thing, we have shown that when it comes to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, above all, and of course Kosovo and Metohija, but it seems to me that it is part of this unsuspecting neucus from the beginning of this story, that you who are so keen and trying to present yourself as the political options of internationalist vote, offer Serbia national reconciliation. It seems to me that the fact that it's national or folklore puts you or makes you a rather supportive or bitter taste in your mouth. What's most important, of course, is these so-called. European integration, which you are again offering for eight years. Who has defended you from bringing us into the European Union these eight years? The problem is that these European integrations also involve certain obligations, i.e. meeting certain standards. The only thing you've been doing is meeting the Hague obligations, and that part that doesn't define the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is to fight and protect every citizen of the Republic of Serbia in the Hague casamat. Or to comment on standards and values that are politically acceptable to everyone and are imposed by the EU. These are certain values that provide economic development to this country, which provide cultural affirmation, which provide us with scientific and technological development. An objective question arises: what have you done in these eight years to prepare Serbia and to provide it with capacity based on which to spend money from European funds, which are full of mouths. You didn't do anything at all. At the very end, I don't know how long this government will last. One thing I am quite sure of, while the testifying leftists, the testified Serbian leftist Mladjan Dinkic and Vuk Draskovic will stand on their left foot, as everything that is left like that now suits them will last. The first morning to be met on the right will be the conditions, as you say, for the government to be torn apart and new elections to be discussed. I want you to last as short as possible, and God help Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1199	Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic. Your LDP parliamentary group has 10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1200	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers' candidate, for a short period of time, I will not be engaged in an entire exposé. I'd like to pay attention only to the part of Mr. Mayor's exposé called - judicial reform. I'd like to ask a few questions and ask Mr. Prime Minister to give me specific answers to these questions. First of all, one general question, is there a reform of the judiciary without a process of lustration in the judiciary? Then a few very specific questions. The first paragraph on judicial reform is -- judicial reform will accelerate, with the goal of building an effective and independent judiciary and prosecution and strengthening the rule of law and legal certainty. As the government imagines building an independent prosecution when the Constitution explicitly, I will mention members 158 and 159. The constitution suggests that the prosecution is not only not independent but that the government is obliged to interfere in the prosecution's affairs. Then here you mentioned a series of laws, and nowhere mentions the Code of Criminal Procedure, one of the most important laws regarding the judiciary. To remind you, we have a new Code of Criminal Procedure that is inapplicable, and is therefore not applicable, and in the previous assembly, the Assembly has made amendments and additions to the already derogated, hence an invalid law on criminal proceedings to be applied. We're usually the only country in the world that applies an invalid law on criminal proceedings. In the end, I would ask a question, if any of your government's future ministers are to be called to criminal responsibility, his immunity should be lifted accordingly. Who will end your ministers' immunity?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1201	The word is Mr. Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1202	Madam President, honourable fellow vice-presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the candidates for the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will begin with what Mr Cvetkovic has finished his exposés, that is, through a government programme that will be elected today because there is a majority of parliaments. In the end, Mr Cvetkovic spoke of the results and success of the government and an assessment of what this government will do, he said - the court should be given on the basis of facts rather than on the basis of prejudice. That's where I fully agree with him. When we talk about this government's programme, we need to talk about facts and talk about what Mr. Cvetkovic pointed out in his exposé. I agree with Mr. Bajatovic when he said that the exposure is not a place where you can talk about every segment of the government's operation, all of the elements, but surely the exposures point to priorities, those key things the government intends to do, and that must be met by MPs and all citizens of Serbia. [[there will be no basis for replication]] You pointed out six key elements and the first place is European integration. You say that at the end of this year and the beginning of next Serbia will get candidate status, and at the end of the term of office, Serbia will be fully prepared for membership in the European Union. The ratification and accession agreement has not yet been ratified in the Serbian Parliament. If you look closely at the Ratification and Association Agreement, you know what these are steps, ratification in our assembly, in all the assembly members, the European Commission makes a number of decisions and only then enters negotiations. The agreement says that in the most important areas in which Serbia should develop and which should help achieve both better life and all key things envision a six-year adjustment period. You say, on condition that your government takes your full term, in four years, all conditions will be met. Does this mean that in the area of the economy some of these things are changing? Does that mean that this agreement is changing, so he's not exactly who he is or does that mean something else? I think it's very important for the economy and for all those who are interested in it to answer these questions. You've made a connection between two important things - between strengthening the economy and strengthening the government's social responsibility. You're absolutely right, and there's no socially responsible government and there's no solving social problems without strengthening the economy. You predict employment growth, growth in economic activity, increasing citizens' standards, even regional development. You predict the growth of the GDP product constantly and a minimum of 7% annually and 200,000 new jobs. It is interesting to see, you say, that the unemployment rate is 18.1%, and the Republic Development Institute, the official report by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, says in its report that the unemployment rate is 28.4%, so now the question which of the two numbers is correct is that we have a base for everything that follows. As for even regional development, as with these other things, certain measures are foreseen. There are no clear indications, but it is commendable to say that the deployment of state institutions will also be considered. There is no solution to even regional development without the deployment and dislocating of institutions from the main centres to smaller places and there is no need to consider it - but should be done. Unfortunately, for many important things, there are no concrete measures that will do so. You rightly point out that agriculture is extremely important for our country. That's where you suggested Mr. Dragin, who already has experience and says he worked pretty well while he was in the Executive Council of the Vojvodina Deputy Secretary. In addition to industry, agriculture is also a significant business branch for Serbia, which is why it is important to define an adequate agrarian policy, should respond to the need to improve the situation in this area. I absolutely agree, and this exists in all the programmes of all the parties in Serbia and probably in all the programmes of all the parties in the countries that are interested in agriculture, but this can hardly help to develop agriculture and hardly give us indications in which direction agriculture will develop. You're planning to increase the competitiveness of the economy and that's a great thing. In some areas, in some sectors, our economy will be the leader of the world -- and there is, of course, no MPs who cannot and should not welcome that our economy in some areas will be the leader of the world. Just tell us what areas you're specifically thinking about, and what measures are we going to make it possible for these branches to be the leaders of the world? Interesting, but there's no word in the exposé about tax policy. By accident or on purpose, we had to make analysis out of pre-election promises. Do you remain in reducing the rate of income tax from 12% to 10%, reducing real estate tax from 2.5% to 1%, reducing customs and excise duties? You haven't been elected yet, so you're still the finance minister in the technical government. Your deputy, Mr. Guzian, says that the tax cuts made in the coming period did not give the appropriate positive effects, that they permanently reduced budget revenues and that they gave the opposite effects to those expected. It's published by "Blic", I don't have an exact date, but it calls for a concrete statement by Mr. Guzian. It's interesting to answer that question as well. An increase in social giving, the social security of rural households, new investments, railways, roads, bridges has been announced, is absolutely all for praise. The only question is how this revenue and expenditure side of the budget will be balanced -- that's the only thing we don't have an answer to. I appeal to your statement a month or two ago, where you say by the end of the year there will be 440m euros missing. The harmonisation of pensions, which is usually a legal obligation, requires additional funding, so it's very interesting to tell us how you're going to balance those two sides? In no word did you mention an external debt that is currently $27.5 billion. Will we be able to service it and how with all these new investments, social benefits, how will this be balanced? In no word have you commented on the rise in food prices and the rise in energy prices, and how will Serbia be organised during the coming period? As Mr. Bajatovic says, there is no time to talk in the exhibition about all segments, but it is very interesting not to mention tourism in any word. All say tourism is one of Serbia's development opportunities. I read it carefully. There are no letters about tourism. No telecommunications, no education, except for the word that education will improve. There is no Mr Milosavljevic, but there is not a single word about health care, it is only mentioned in one place - that free health care will be provided. No mining and energy, environmental protection, no NIP, no planning and no construction. The basic question is why is there no exposure to these areas, not even in any indication? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1203	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1204	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, by forming this government, as its experts like to call it - the socially responsible government, which will be one of the most harmful governments in the recent history of the Republic of Serbia, is actually talking about the autocratic personality of Boris Tadic. I remind the MPs, as well as the public of Serbia, that Boris Tadic announced on 11 May that he would fight with all means to be very yellow in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and if someone says he will fight with all means, then there is indeed a serious danger that this also applies to extra-institutional funds. When the Commander-in-chief says so, then the danger is even greater. They were probably also the reason that a government like this was eventually formed. Boris Tadic, Boris Broz, the yellow dictator, suggested Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic as Prime Minister, a man who, I say today, has no idea what we talked about here, what we suggested, what we asked him - a man sitting, we used to, he was also like a minister. Of course, it is clear to everyone that you, Mr. Cvetkovic, are not the prime minister, or you will be formally, but that this government will be led by the one who formed it, which is the yellow dictator Boris Broz. But he forgot Boris Broz that in your biography, when he offered you the National Assembly's mandate, the most important details of your biography, which relate to 2003 and 2004, when you and Alexander Vlahovic were together, he was the director of the "Dilloy and Show", you as director of the Privatisation Agency, director as CEO of Ces Mekon, when you participated in the biggest crime in Serbia's recent history, which is 88... Just laugh, you'll have time to answer for this, be safe. So you took part in 88 criminal privatisations. One of them is the biggest robbery of the 20th century, and it refers to "Sartid". Data on this exist, there are judicial proceedings, i.e. documentation in competent prosecutors. It'll all come on its own one day. We're very patient. Unfortunately, I am not sure that the citizens of Serbia will have enough patience, because what awaits them, at least from what you have presented here as a government programme, I have not read in my life a more general character program than what you have presented to the MPs as your exposés, as you say. You have presented here the key elements of your program that will base the government's work. Of course, you wrote it very nicely and a man would think, if this were like this, then you can't put some special objection to the functioning of the future government. We know that what it says here and what it is without concrete means, every paragraph of your exposé begins with "reform," "we will continue," "we will start reforms" and so on. The reformation remained from communism when everything reformed and nothing changed. That's what you do now, and obviously that's how you plan to do it through the work of this government of yours. It is important that you wrote that the government will seek to improve relations with the United States, with the goal of the world's greatest force, in resolving disputes in the Balkans, to a greater extent respecting the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people, etc. You didn't say what the point is here, that's what Sutanovac said months before these last elections, which is that you intend to introduce Serbia into NATO. That's your cooperation with the United States. We remind Serbian citizens of the fact that VukJeremic, as foreign minister, spoke to the State Department representatives and why Leon Kojen, as a member of the negotiating team for Kosovo and Metohija, left the negotiating team. So you're saying one thing when you're locked up with senior U.S. officials and representatives of the European Union countries, and the other you talk about when you hold press conferences. You say all coalition members are fully agreed that the new government will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. I remind you and remind Serbia's citizens, above all, that the DS has shown its relationship with Kosovo and Metohija these days, by not participating in the formation of the Serb assembly in Kosovo and Metohija, and I also remind you that there will be representatives of the G17 party in this new government, which is the struggle for Kosovo and Metohija, as Mladjan Dinkic said "collective madness", you remember, after February 17th. Now we need to believe that you're really going to keep your word and it's going to be like you wrote in the exposé. Do you have an answer, Mr. Cvetkovic, call Tadic to tell you, he knows the answers to the questions we ask you. Ask him why the six municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija were detained by UNMIK's presidents in 2002, when DS participated in elections in Kosovo and Metohija and thus recognised the illegal authorities of the illegal state of Kosovo. Because they say they can still do it, because they have made good contact with UNMIK. The issue of co-operation with The Hague tribunal is a question that has been mentioned very shyly here. You say you will continue to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. I would like you to say in what way do you think to continue to co-operate with The Hague tribunal -- to applaud the court councils in The Hague when they release the villains and criminals, the massacrers of the Serb people, Haradinaj and Oric? Had it been necessary and had there been state-run in Boris Broz, at least he would have done -- he would have addressed Serbia's public and condemned this final decision by the appeal council, which freed Naser Oric of crimes against Serbs on the territory of Srebrenica. I also remind you, but again, I am stressing, above all, the citizens of Serbia, at the shortest, what is the DS's attitude towards The Hague tribunal. I remind you of Vidovdan seven years ago, when you kidnapped Slobodan Milosevic and took him to The Hague, I remind you of a statement by Zoran Djindjic, the mafia prime minister, who Karli del Ponte said: "Take Seselj to The Hague and do not return him". And she asked his lawyers to do something to make the indictment so they could do something, because, she says, "The hat will be a big problem, because there's no evidence against him, the man didn't do anything." Is that why the candidate for Justice Minister Mrs Malovic, who was General Secretary at Vukcevic in the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes? Was that a motive to choose her, to the general astonishment of the full judiciary in Serbia? You'll see what reactions you'll have from the judicial authorities after this lady's election as justice minister. Also, I recall, it wasn't that long ago when Tadic arrested General Tolimir "in Bratunc, Bezanjska Kosa", you remember that address. These days, also Tadic, at the time of the technical government, but during the time when most of the "yellow" ministers, in fact, led the government and Serbia, arrested Zupljanin, who, you heard, had to change his identity because he was threatened with death. How can you claim and promise to fight crime, when Djelic, Dinkic, Dragan Sutanovac, is definitely Serbia's biggest criminals in the government? There's evidence of that, too, and that's why I'm speaking out loud and clear. Although you have extended this time, it is impossible to go beyond everything you have written in your opening statement on the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You're saying you're going to reduce inflation from the current level of about 12 percent of the annual level. This is a lie for every citizen of Serbia. First of all, you have to explain how you're going to reduce. It's easy to write on this paper "we're going to cut inflation from 12% to 4%", but you have to say how? Secondly, the lie is that inflation is 12%. They know Serbia's citizens how much they can buy for 1,000 dinars today at the store and how much they could have bought a year ago. So inflation is much bigger than what you've predicted here. You're saying that in local self-government, you're going to be reducing the number of employees for, as you said, optimization. What are you going to do, Mr. Cvetkovic, with employees of the ministries that various governments have brought in and how many of you and your new ministers are going to bring new people into the ministries? In the ministries, you can expand as much as you want, but that's why local self-governments cut and cut. You say you'll increase your pensions by 10% by September 2008 and that by the end of the year you will adopt amendments to the Law on PIO. Do you know what the date is today, Mr. Minister still, Cvetkovic? When do you think you can rebalance? You were whining these days, when you weren't sure you were going to form a government, you were complaining that your budget was empty, you were complaining that you were in a great deficit, you were saying it in public, I'm not making it up. You whine when the government would sell something to fill the budget. So how are you going to raise your pensions now? Why do you lie to Serbian citizens on today when you are elected president, when the parliamentary majority elects you as Prime Minister? You're going to propose a law on freezing and confiscation of property acquired by corruption and crime. What about your property? That's the first question. The second question, i.e. the fact that we have it regulated in our legislation today, sir, ask this Mrs. Malovic, if she has ever read the Criminal Code, does she remember that there is this possibility in the Criminal Code and there is no need for a new law to pass. You're going to reform the judiciary, you're going to list the laws you're going to pass. You haven't even done that yet, here's Mr. Batic down from the time he proposed and when laws were passed here and these laws still don't apply in our judicial system. What's wrong with you and the Casation Court? Three times so far, Serbia's judiciary has been collapsed because it was not possible to conduct procedures because you failed to meet the conditions set out in the law. So there are a lot of objections and we could talk about individual solutions as well. I just want to tell all future ministers, and above all, to you, Mr Cvetkovic; I have already told you, you are not the prime minister, these ministers are not ministers, the complete government of Serbia is leading and will lead the yellow dictator Boris Tadic. With who? With Mladjan Dinkic, the biggest thief in Serbia, whom he still left behind by the NIP, and the economy, and that is why we have no tourism, which Mr Obradovic spoke of earlier, because Dinkic has to build ski resorts, he has to steal the country in Golia, etc. So no one will ask you anything, how they wrote you this exposé, so Boris Tadic and Dinkic will lead this country and lead this policy, and you will be responsible for God and the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1205	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise violation of Article 104. I think you were obliged to warn Mrs. Radet when she used a series of offensive words, expressions, and appraisals for certain people. I don't want to be a defender here or a president of the Republic or any of the ministers, but really, Mrs. Radeta, it bothers me that today, on Ivvandan, on a big Christian Orthodox holiday, you by no means know which time the late prime minister, a dead man, you call a mob premiere. I was fortunate and honored to be a minister in the government of Zoran Djindjic, a government that Serbia will make of mud.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1207	Thank you. I ask MPs to use euphemisms, therefore, as appropriate terms to express their own beliefs. Here, Mrs. Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1208	There's a saying in our people, "What's smart ashamed of, crazy proud of it?"
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1209	The word is Mr Nenad Prokic, your group has seven minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I congratulate you on choosing a new government and I hope it will be truly reformist. It's very necessary for Serbia. Serbia is an outdated society. It must change twice as quickly as everyone else, in order to survive in the European game at all. After all these general grudges that are directed at your exposé, I'd just like a few details that I personally had for my eye. There's no question about the departmentalization of the state. This is a European value without which there is no entry into Europe, if you are not a member of some of the parties you cannot be on the boards of public enterprises. That's not European value. That's for us and for what it's worth. Without the transformation of the security structures, no country has entered the EU. Our security structures haven't been transformed, they've been the source of all sorts of misery and evil in this country. I hope your government contributes to their transformation. This is another necessary condition for which there is no word in your exposé. I'm sorry that the SPS didn't find anything to match, one of the coalition partners in your government, to say anything about his past. Everyone has the right to change. It would be good for them to wish for it themselves or be forced, not to get a chance to change themselves in power and in doing so again. I hope this time it'll be a success. The Hague is too important a subject and it is the first condition of European integration, and deserves to be mentioned by its name, not euphemism and hidden messages in your exposé. The repression of hooliganism I found in the exposé, and for me it meant a promise that this government would not, unlike the previous one, organise any more rally in the main work after which the hooligans would burn the embassies of foreign countries, and between them and those which are the main EU countries. It's very disappointing that culture is the last place in your exposé. The freakic cultural model has been the source of all sorts of evil in this country for the last 20 years and the change of that freakic cultural model, the wrong cultural model within which the war criminal is a hero, and the singer of the turbofolk heroin, that's something that must be the task of your government and above all culture, and it can't be in the last place, but in the first place. I congratulate you once again. I wish you a full term. I wish you a lot of success. You'll have support for everything you already know we'll support. You know we're going to be very opposed to some of the things that we can already assume in your exposé that there will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1211	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ivan Andric, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1212	Art. 104 and 105. Madam President, the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, to address one another with respect and not to use offensive expressions, nor to give facts and assessments concerning the private life of others. Article 105, on the agenda of the Assembly, is the president of the National Assembly. Madam Parliament Speaker, the newly elected majority, whose first official representative you are, declared the principle of national reconciliation. On behalf of the national reconciliation, do you deliberately deny that someone called Prime Minister Djindjic a mobster? I'm not going into your political position, but believe me, if we told you here what we think of your late President Slobodan Milosevic, this session would probably turn into some kind of battlefield, and believe us, we're right, and you're not. There is no national reconciliation as long as you allow it because it may be in your best interests, because you think it'll be easier to pass. It is not a national reconciliation if you, out of fear, remain silent to mention a letter that has made a very visible breach of the Rules of Procedure, and not just the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to behave in accordance with your function and not allow such insult to the majority that is in this parliament and most citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1213	Thank you. Once again, I ask all MPs to take care of the way they express themselves, not to insult each other and to be a decent atmosphere for work. The word is Mr. Marash, and he also advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the future ministers, Mr Cvetkovic, also member of the 104th and 105th Rules of Procedure and related to Rule 27 of this Rules of Procedure. Madam President, two or three days ago I advertised the same violation of the Rules of Procedure committed by the person sitting next to you, also vice president of the Assembly. I asked that in the voting day the Assembly be told whether it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have already allowed something like this to happen, and if it hadn't been for the reaction of the MPs, you would have kept your mouth shut again. Do you think the same thing as the person who brought it up, I really don't care about your political views. If I were to say that Vojislav Seselj is a villain and a criminal I would be the same as you from the Radical Party, I will never say that about this speaker. That's why I'm asking you to take care of yourself and not say things like that, because you're breaking the Rules of Procedure and insulting the people who are sitting in this room watching this transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1215	Thank you. There were statements on your proposal in the voting day, and the assembly decided there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can tell anyone anything you want, but it's essential that what you're saying is supported by some facts or arguments. As far as Vojislav Seselj is concerned, it was even tried by The Hague tribunal. All that was here on the side of The Hague tribunal and on the DOS side of the village has written the indictment against Dr Vojislav Seselj. In that indictment, we've had our chance to see all the lies until now. Witnesses who were false, instructed by The Hague tribunal, to back up that false indictment fell to the test the moment Vojislav Seselj was given the right to cross-examination, which he chose by misleading his life. When we present facts about anyone, when we state certain things, there are certain facts behind it. Mr. Maras, I'll remind you, you're not in this government, but in this future government are the current political partners who have already brought it all out for each other, we're just repeating it. I will remind you of "Serbian word", Vuk Draskovic and Danica Draskovic, who published facts concerning Zoran Djindjic and... What's wrong with you people, I'm talking about this to Mr. Marash... that as a student he was caught stealing jackets and books. So find the "Serbian word," look at that. It may not be a problem with you, but the problem with them is that they're building a coalition government today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1217	Mr. Andric answered his word, advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You'll just tell us which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1218	Madam President, I have always quoted which member of the Rules of Procedure. Now I say again, Article 104 and 105. It concerns your sentence that the Serbian Parliament voted and that it estimated that there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I think you can explain exactly what that means. This means that it was not the Serbian Parliament that voted, but the ruling majority here made decisions. This means that the ruling majority, which makes up the Democratic Party, as the largest party in parliament, decided on behalf of national reconciliation, that the sentence -- Zoran Djindjic was a mafia prime minister, was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Is that what you voted for? Or Madam President of Parliament, who is the representative of this majority, you feel that voting on 50 violations of the Rules of Procedure, no one knows what the vote is about, that it gives it the right to remain silent on behalf of that national trust. We don't argue here with the SRS, we know their attitudes, what we won't allow, it's over the past week we've warned you several times about this violation of the Rules of Procedure and the basic moral principle. You cannot be the president of the so-called European Parliament, a pro-European parliament, a representative of the pro-European majority, and for Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic you are not telling the qualification that he was the mafia prime minister. Believe me, you're not going to continue this session as long as you're acting so nonchalantly towards that fact. The ruling majority estimated that it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks more about the ruling majority than about what she voted on and what you just said now only made the MPs or citizens of Serbia more angry than they share such an opinion. You know what, for what you've decided, if that's a different name for national reconciliation, then tell us now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1219	Thank you. The word is Mr. Marash, advertizing the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1220	Article 104 and 105. Rules of Procedure. Also, I must repeat that in the day to vote, it is my proposal to vote on the fact that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately the ruling majority has failed to vote yes. I guess you didn't know what it was about. Madam President of the Assembly, you are truly the most responsible for the situation that is currently going on in this room, for the simple reason that you remain silent when speaking in one way about an ex-president who was killed in the workplace. We really didn't have any intention of entering any dialogue or dispute with you, Mr. Todorovic. We consider the President of the Assembly the most responsible for all of this. I just need one more word to look back at what you said. You said Mr. Seselj had a chance to deny in The Hague all the lies and lies that, according to you, were told about him. Unfortunately, Mr Djindjic was never in a position to disprove those lies, which especially after the death of people, because he was killed at the workplace by criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1221	The word is Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1222	Madam President, I'm advertising a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure and Article 104(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. By electing the President of the National Assembly, you represent the entire National Assembly, all MPs, and you cannot speak or act on behalf of one or another parliamentary group. Therefore, you are obliged to protect the integrity and individual MPs, both the National Assembly and all other people whose name is mentioned in a negative context for this speaker. What's said today, and it's said before you on many occasions, not that it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not that it's a violation of elementary ethics, basic morality, basic Christian principles, it's morbid, it's pagan, and you just keep your mouth shut. The fact that you went to the promotion of the book Slobodan Milosevic and there the throne, the Malteses dived tears, which in a few days freed Marko Milosevic in front of the fire-fighting court for the lynch in front of the members of the fire-fighting "Resistance", does not indicate that it will be a reformed party. The fact that on the day of his birthday again, of course, he accidentally opens up "Madona," and we remember one birthday from seven to eight years ago, when you were in power, the invitation of Marko Aurelia, then crossed over, and Marko Polo, then crossed over, Marko Kraljević, and then crossed over, so Marko Milosevic celebrates what birthday. Therefore, if you believe that we are living in a time machine and if you want to continue on that path and that matrix, which has led Serbia to this point where it is and is hard to return to the community of European countries and peoples, then there is nothing from the stories of reforms. Therefore, by protecting your integrity and your desire to reform yourself, you must also protect the integrity of political components, especially people who are no longer alive. Everyone here needs to keep quiet, and if they have to stand by, they listen when the name Zoran Djindjic is mentioned, not to insult him daily.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1223	Thank you. Please, one more explanation. On many occasions, I've turned my attention to all speakers to take care of terminology, and I'm doing it this time. In case the MPs are not satisfied, they have business opportunities. Mr Dragan Todorovic answered the words. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, especially you who tap right after this presentation, I should remind you of one thing. The minimum is that you have the same archaic. Let me remind you, when you were blowing balloons and celebrating in the Republic Square the death of Slobodan Milosevic, at least you have no right to say anything to anyone, you should keep your mouth shut. On this side, no one's ever done it, and you've done it and it's talking about you. As for Zoran Djindjic, his character and actions, I would understand that he is being defended by those who are now silent. And why aren't they defending him? Because it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1225	I ask the MPs to allow Mr. Todorovic to continue his exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1226	I hope, Mr. Maras, that it should be clear to you that their goal is to free Zoran Djindjic. It's not yesterday. I read in my last term thesis for discussion on the main committee, whose signature, among other things, is Dragoljub Micunovic, Boris Tadic, and not to list the others. To them, Zoran Djindjic is a burden on his neck and they are trying to hide behind him. They're not going to get too busy defending him, letting you do it, and you're doing it incorrectly, doing it to take over their voters, the clean store. Don't convince us here now, to honor us for the fact that we're telling the truth. Vojislav Seselj did not ask Carla del Ponte to lead Zoran Djindjic or anyone else, but Zoran Djindjic. It was not Vojislav Seselj who delivered Slobodan Milosevic to Vidovdan, but Zoran Djindjic, as many other Serbs have submitted. Did you not wonder where the money the UN tribunal has called as the award for the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic? You know it was done against the law, against the law. At the time, the minister of justice was Vladan Batic. They were arrested by a man who was in Central Prison, pulled out of Central Prison and sent to The Hague. What do you expect from this country? You think it's forgotten that we're going to go over it and say, "Puj dots," right? These are things that no one will ever forget. It will be written down as shameful facts and the days Serbia has been through.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1227	The word is Mr. Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1228	More than me, you won't be surprised to say, Your Honor, Madam President. You will never hear from the LDP, any MP, to say that Slobodan Milosevic was a criminal, criminal and mobster. You won't hear from us to say that Vojislav Seselj is a mobster, a criminal, a criminal, and that he belongs where he is now. Because if you told me that Slobodan Milosevic ordered murders, that he was a mobster and a criminal, if you said Vojislav Seselj was the same thing, just maybe a little worse or a little better, then we'd be the same as those who insult the late prime minister. But we will not say that Milosevic is a criminal, a criminal, and that Vojislav Seselj may be a war criminal, because we are not. But, ma'am, a lot of nice words have been said that you will lead this House. We didn't vote for you. In the last four or five days, several times over the past week, what the gentlemen of the SRS are saying again has been heard here. We warned you, and we didn't react this way, with the hope that you would react and lead this congregation in the way it deserves to be run, if today we should have so-called. Pro-European government. So please, and from the ruling majority, put this to a vote and vote that this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, otherwise you'll challenge us just not to give up on this. As for who wants to be free, it doesn't matter, maybe even radicals are practicing how to free their historic leader the Democratic Party. They may want to free Vojislav Seselj, too, but that's their business. This assembly should work, this assembly should choose a government, and if someone wants to make an obstruction, there it is, we will prevent any obstruction, as we did last time when there was no quorum, but this is the border we will not cross and we will not allow this to offend the memory of the so tragically deceased Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's first democratic prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1229	Thank you. In voting time, this will be put on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Nenad Prokić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1230	Article 104. These past ten days, I've been very surprised by the silence of the DS, and it insulted me. Someone who takes such great responsibility for himself shouldn't just be silent, but I thought there might be something behind it. Now you and I are accused of using Zoran Djindjic as a promotional coin. Please, since I know you won't let this happen, so we're not alone here being accused of beating you up over dead Zoran's voice, of getting up and saying a word about Zoran Djindjic, and thus end these accusations that I can call established, which come from this side because of your silence. That silence has to come to an end once and you have to say something about something before you form a government, maybe this is a good opportunity for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1231	Mr. Tomislav Nikolic answered the word, and then Mr. Bajatovic advertised the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1232	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, always in my life when I have to decide between telling someone openly and in person what I think or being a cynic, as it was a predecessor, I choose to speak openly. That's what makes us radicals separate from others. What we think of Zoran Djindjic, we say to you in the eye, but it is pointless to comment on the words spoken about Zoran Djindjic, and then in some form, I would say the European-Sidden, to say all this about Slobodan Milosevic and Vojislav Seselj under the mask - I will not say. What don't you say? You don't appreciate Vojislav Seselj, say what you think of him. You don't appreciate Slobodan Milosevic, say what you think of him. You don't appreciate any Serbian radicals, say what you think of us. What don't you say? And what if the MP doesn't say here from this pay phone what he thinks? What, is that some verbal delicacy to say what you think of Zoran Djindjic? What do you swear on Zoran Djindjic? What do you swear? What good did Zoran Djindjic bring? Who ruled Serbia at the time of Zoran Djindjic's rule? The Mafia. Who kidnapped people? The Mafia. Who built the Surcin clan? At a time whose authority? When you were the minister of justice, who was taking the prisoners out of prison to go pounding and pitching? Whose protection was that under? Is that ever recorded in Serbia's history? Who told Chumet what kind of machine he needed to get to take all the money invested in road repair? Zoran Djindjic. Tragic is his death. Did he mean what he did to Vojislav Seselj to separate him from underage children? Did he think he was committing any sin, that he was doing evil, not Vojislav Seselj, to those children? How can you say that there was a man in front of whose name we should stand still when he said -- the one who has three underage children and two grandkids sent to The Hague, that we never see him again in Serbia. All history measures, each gives its own. Maybe I'm being subjective, so I don't think well of your president. You don't think about my better either. It's your tragedy that your president was killed. It's your tragedy that he was killed by the company he was hanging out with. It's your tragedy. I knew neither Chumeta, nor the Legion, nor this, or that president of yours, much more than Vojislav Seselj knew him. And Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic knew him. And he was hanging out with them. So life has brought some people into contact with mobsters. Some mobsters said good day or good evening when they met them, some turned their heads and some hung out with them. The president of your party dropped an artificial fork in the pool at Chumet's when he was taking a bath. Because of him, the pool was knocked down so they wouldn't find a fork that matches Cedomir Jovanovic. Don't celebrate a time in which no citizen on the street was still. I'm not telling you a time when you weren't stable, safe, nor can you celebrate the time of Zoran Djindjic. After all, Dragoljub Micunovic conducted an investigation into the crime of Zoran Djindjic. The one who hides money, and the party money, can no longer be called a decent and honest man. Let's break all these stories now. Let's talk about those who are here in the O.R. That would be ideal. To look each other in the eye and tell each other what we think is wrong. You can't hide what he's been doing by drinking to a murdered man, which you yourself are threatening to do. Or maybe your company was a plague, a fool. Would you hang out with them? Would you take the kids to the pool to take a bath? I don't think you would, even if you were called a political party, even if your name was president. So don't celebrate, don't glorify those who don't deserve it, we suffer here that Serbian heroes fall before you, that they don't have street names, that their monuments are being torn down, and you want to raise the reputation of a man who didn't deserve it. Perhaps if he had lived, who knows, he might have washed himself, had already been around Kosovo and Metohija took a completely different position than before. Maybe it would work, but he didn't make it. That's why we're going to participate whenever you step on us, you can sit down, we have time at our disposal, all night. And where exactly did you, the guardians of character and deed, carry the coffin? That's exactly the nomenclature to defend character and action. No, you care about the votes that could be taken on that pie, but the voices of the ideology of Zoran Djindjic are in the DS. People notice it's not exactly the same, but they still vote for the DS, they won't vote for you. And after these elections, what are you doing on the political scene? Here, the government is formed and for some other parties I don't think there'll be room on the political scene anymore, because whoever wants this kind of policy will vote for yellow. Which would be for some small parties to help the yellow ones. Serbia's political scene will split. On the one hand, you, on the other hand, will be us, we'll see what the DSS does and we'll be done. You won't be safe. Your ideology, it disgusts even DS. The DS doesn't see a co-operation partner in you, and look how wide they're open to co-operation with everyone. It's just, they won't, either.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1233	Mr. Dusan Bajatovic. I'd like to ask you to return to the agenda as soon as possible. Here you go, Mr. Bayatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1234	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry to violate the gentlemen's agreement reached before the beginning of this session that we will not report to the Rules of Procedure. I fully understand that good weather, excellent ratings, fully understand the need to boost the election result, which was not enough for either side, which in one light, double, unnatural dog thinks that something will solve these historical debates. It may not be a good thing that Prime Minister Cvetkovic – Article 104, indent 2, you asked of all – this one that will be elected today, I hope for that not in what kind of vampire age. I reported that there were attacks on a lady here, a university professor who performs as speaker of parliament, my friend, our friend Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. I ask all MPs to understand that there is no business possibility and no matter what she's a psychiatrist, she may be able to judge someone, but she doesn't know exactly what he's going to say when she comes out for this pay phone. I'm asking you to understand that she doesn't know the content that's going to say the one that comes out for this pay phone and don't let us attack her for that. She does her job very correctly, I just feel the need, and as a lady and as my friend, at least try to protect her. She's literally holding up the procedure. And our experience over the damage of opponents by calling the late Slobodan Milosevic and the late Zoran Djindjic I don't think he brings any points anymore. The purpose of the political offer, and later indeed national reconciliation, is to avoid such situations. I repeat again, I have reported for reasons to protect the chairman's parliament, Mrs. Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who is doing her job very correctly. Don't be mad at her for the content of the discussion, which, I'm afraid, speaks of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1235	The word is Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1236	Articles 104 and 105. Again, charges have been brought against the account of the late prime minister, at the expense of the head of our parliamentary group, the president of a parliamentary party. You, Parliament Speaker, have listened well to it, probably wanting to show that you agree with it or that it is pointless to discuss it, but it will not take you far. Mr. Bayatovic, thank you for defining the first time on behalf of most national reconciliation. There is no equality between Zoran Djindjic and Slobodan Milosevic, there is no equality between the victim and the criminal, Mr. Bajatovic. If the point is to make a government here today, you won't be able to do it on those grounds, Mr. Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1237	MPs who make remarks to other MPs use a similar vocabulary. Mr. Batic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1238	I don't know if this session and the story of national reconciliation are a continuation of the 8th session or if it reminds me very unfortunately of the 8th session. Mr. Nikolic, when I was a minister of justice, no one left Central Prison, no escape, no murders, no suicides, no drugs, no cell phones. I experienced being called by my prisoner client 15 days ago. As they say, a man came out, and he calmly called me from Central Prison. That sort of thing happened later, and it didn't happen at the time. Mr. Nikolic, everything can be argued and documented. You said one sentence that was a very unpleasant illusion. You said it before, Mr. Bajatovic said it afterwards. I believe he's wrong too, and I'm sorry he said one already paid. You said, remember, and Tito went on crutches before he died. Not to repeat what was going on at that time. Indeed, this debate will not take us far. I repeat once again, when you use the term national reconciliation, it's not what happens today. This may be a party or party, or a partial party and partial party reconciliation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1239	The word is Mr. Ostojic. I'd like to ask for damage to the Rules of Procedure and to bring the replicas to an end and continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1240	I must admit that we are scandalized by your silence and that we can only experience this silence, gentlemen of the ruling majority, gentlemen of the DS, as an application in the practice of what your party will sign with the SPS, which is called some kind of national reconciliation. I hope that this national reconciliation will not spread to those who, in the 1990s, at the time of the crime, robbery, destruction and murder, ruled with the SPS, who are sitting with Ivica Dacic in the government, with the SRS, but may be going in that direction because we did not expect Mr Nikolic to defend this government as a future and ruling majority. Okay, that's kind of natural. In any case, we insist on correcting the mistake of voting day and voting on hurting the Rules of Procedure. And if this is a national reconciliation, then I really don't understand why you made a government with socialists. They only have 20 MPs. You really could have made a government with their partners in the '90s, that government would have two-thirds and there wouldn't have been much difference between politics and what we're seeing right now. Perhaps then Mr. Nikolic or Todorovic would avoid mentioning it in this context, so perhaps in that sense it would be better for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1241	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to members 104 and 105. Rules of Procedure. I want to tell you that DS is proud to follow the idea and vision of Zoran Djindjic. We are here today forming a government that we believe will achieve the ideals for which he has given his life. We don't respond to attacks because we think they're talking about those who attack, not the man who's going to put history really where it deserves, as the first democratic president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, we think it is equally untasteful to use his name and his victim for party points and for party struggle. That is why we refrain from reacting to both sides. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1243	The word is Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1244	Articles 104 and 105. Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia, for sharing that with us, we think it's about time you said something like that in public. Believe me, there's no point here. It is that the speaker of the assembly, which is the ruling majority's proposal, has tolerated this for the past ten days, what is said. We planned not to report to the Rules of Procedure anyway, the goal was just to distract ourselves. I hope it will take you a lot less time to react to these steps of our political opponents in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1245	The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1246	God helps, Serbian citizens. Anything that is secret will become public, according to the Gospel. Here's an example, the secret underground cafe political agreements resulted in this wonderful government of Cvetkovic-Dacek, with a special reference to the dominant role of the president, which has no constitutional, but has all the psychopathological powers to bring us back to the 'brozen' time. It is now clear why the basis of his presidential and parliamentary campaign was fearing people that the nation-oriented parties would return them to the 1990s. On the basis of this malignant political intimidation, the president himself was afraid not to limit himself, not only to the powers that Milosevic had. Tadic is more ambitious, raised according to the parole -- and after Tito Tito. With the right of fellow SRS colleagues to call him Boris Broz. Our BB isn't just a media star, it's the best student of Kumrovska School, who's missed a big brother and a life president. The second current not only reminds the character of the role models from the past of his famous dad and the gray eminence of the U.S.A., but also partially catch up with him. If it was possible only at the time of the first Serb witness that it was possible to declare itself a holiday on July 7th, I guess just because of Serbian dissension and self-destruction, then it is clear that only at the time of the rule of this young government should it be formed this very day. This is the reshoot of one part of Serbia to another, which is guilty and unwanted not because it is more numerous, but because it is nationally conscious. Who's interested in the people and the national feeling when the president managed to make his dream come true? In psychoanalysis, there's a phenomenon described as the fantasy of hitchhiking parents. Boris Broz makes his contribution to the recent psychoanalyst thought, showing that it is not only fantasism, but also a fantasy realized, a phenomenon of the student functions of the president and prime minister. For the first time since 5 October 2000, we have a prime minister who is politically far weaker than the president. Without the wish for personal disqualification of Mr Cvetkovic, the notoristic fact is that both retired Prime Minister Djindjic and Prime Minister Kostunica are figures of such a political form that they are qualitatively incomparable with the current mandate. In a position to be elected as current prime minister, he again came for the psychopathological nature of the person in the role of Serbian President. In overcoming his own party, since he could not already push his favourite Vuk, nor allow the party to win with its favorite Pajtic, Tadic pulled Mr Cvetkovic out of his hat, which is a good compromise solution, both by number of years and by appearance, and by the absence of a dangerous rebel orientation, which would lead to his involvement in his business. Obedience and obedience have already been demonstrated in the previous government, where he has often not been able to answer questions that he has been resolutely responsible for, but how easily he has participated in the revote. The point of my entire presentation is not regrettable for my youth, nor was the explanation that Prime Minister Kostunica's rule was successful and responsible. I have no intention of condemning in advance the failure of a new government. The essence of all objections is, in fact, the statement of justifiable doubt in the expressed good intentions. Since the new government has a significant number of ministers or party close associates who participated in the destruction of the previous government, precisely because of Kosovo in Serbia, I have the right to doubt that the path to hell will be paved by its government's good intentions. It is not tragic that Dr Vojislav Kostunica returned his mandate to the people and turned to opposition. He is one of the few political figures in Serbia's recent history that is a narcissistic interest that others love him far above the belief that the people of Serbia need a return of trust in the institutions of Serbia and the state itself. Risking being belittled and characterised as uninformed, intellectually sterile and slow, he focused all energy on a state-of-the-art policy that also resulted in the adoption of the Constitution. Time will show that Kostunica and his government's state-owned and national-responsible policies are responsible for not recognising Kosovo - to one, as these younger ones would say, and that, in principle, the domino effect has not been recognised by all the countries in the world. It is not tragic that Velimir Ilic, president of New Serbia, is no longer in the government. As a unit of opposition action and a man who literally, even physically, dropped democratic changes, he was professionally accomplished far before becoming a minister, and the most successful in two mandates of the Serbian government. Successful in position... Mr. Sutanović, as it's written, is it funny? You were very successful in the opposition. It is not tragic, therefore, that the opposition now has responsible and thoughtful people now in love with the state of Serbia. It is tragic that Serbia loses, and every day, because it is on the verge of a clinical death, because only a dead organism can take out the heart, and Kosovo is the heart of Serbia. It is even more tragic that trade in these organs will no longer be done by the Shipari or by another, but by our people, conditionally speaking. I am convinced just because the new government's backbone is pre-voting ideas, where it is important to preserve its territory and state integrity. After all, when we compare the previous and new governments -- what's the difference? It's actually five new key principles again, the third is divided into two parts, which could be almost identical, that there's no difference in ranking the first and the second. The government's ranking list puts Serbia's European future first by speeding up the process of European integration, all right, but why, in place of number one, ahead of the second principle regarding Kosovo and Metohija? To make things more tangible, while the first principle is defined positively and actively, the second one is defined through negation -- Kosovo's independence and Metohija is unacceptable, and extremely passive -- the parties will only agree that their independence is unacceptable. What it means is that Serbia will be hyperactive from the outside and hyperpassive from the inside. Where does that passivity come from just when it comes to defending your own, your own territory and your own integrity? In this formulation, the first two principles contained all the paradoxes and hypocrites of the Zeus coalition, noting that Tadic promoted himself as the top god of Zeus, while the rest agreed on who Hera, Athens, Mars. The non-critical acceptance of the EU's dogmats, with the non-critical rejection of national interest, with no public debate on either one of them being opened: - what is the European Union, how it enters, what are the advantages and disadvantages, how and how much better it will be; why, for example, live well in Norway and Switzerland without EU members; is it better for Bulgarians since they are in the EU or are now the poorest; what are the borders of the country whose president is Tadic, which is the territory in which Serbia's new government will have executive authority? As for the third, fourth, fifth and sixth principles, everything is fine and it is all rainy, it is all right, it has already been seen - the fight against poverty, strengthening the economy, social responsibility and the fight against corruption. It's a small problem that the government is sitting right in a place related to the principles of three, four, five and six, a person of limited ambition, a very controversial biography, especially from the prism of corruption and crime, and a certified destroyer of each government to the one who will be its own -- that's the younger figure in charge of regional development. It is information for Miss Jerkov, who claimed Velimir Ilic stole what she said stole regional development. If someone stole it, it could've been only Junior. The PUPS claims that there is no way to fail... as he was called by politically undetermined pensioners, and he has already lied and agreed that pensions will only be increased by 10%. What happened all of a sudden? The large cities of Serbia already look like New York, but not at the rate of development, but at the ever-present indifference and willingness to skip the body of a desperate, powerless, poor and sick. Every Manhattan has its own pandan in Harlem, the problem is that most politicians live in Manhattan and most people live in Harlem. When the voice of "Look at Your House of Angels" reaches Manhattan, and that part of which, death and misery, those with disgust ask -- what would you like, why you didn't pay the connection to the new world streams, losers one. Finally, along with the government for which the key words were found, the government of two five-pointers and after Tito Marshall Tadic, a bereaved family, a government for which the agreement was signed right in the presidency building, we will need the Lord's help and help of St John's Baptist, whose day of birth we are celebrating. It's no coincidence that he's called a predicated angel of repentance. It is not enough to sign the reconciliation paper scrolls, but it is necessary to repent, reason and cooperate with a god who will help if we allow it. I am particularly pleased that, unlike Mr. Andric, who is looking for an eye for an eye, a man from his group, a completely unique and marked person, such as Dr. Vladan Batic, was informed of the category of repentance, and suggested that the ugly words are not spoken on the day of the holiday of Jovanjdan. Only to experience repentance as a true Christian, to enter the personal pursuit of repentance that he treats daily as the day of the Lord. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1247	Mr. Borislav Pelevic picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1248	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I will talk about the Ministry of Sports and about the real mandate of this government. There are a million and a half former and present athletes in Serbia, and they really need attention. In 2001. DOS has abolished the Department of Sports. Then I warned from this booth that it would be disastrous for sport and unfortunately I was right, because after that there was a collapse of our sport to the very bottom. This sports bulletin of the Sports Union of Serbia, the only measuring sports organisation that ranks sports and categorises sports and athletes. These are the results for last year. Do you know how our first trophy sports are? Like this: basketball in 13th place in Serbia, volleyball in 15th place, swimming at 17th, kick boxing in first place, and among the first 10 and karate. That's where our top-notch sport came from, which we used to be proud of. Now the government has realised that it is necessary for the sports ministry and in the past term it is a ministry and formed. However, the sports minister was elected Mrs. Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, who said publicly that she had never engaged in sports or sports work, that she was here on the party line to bring money to sport. Sport has several basic functions, basic goals. The first goal is to improve the physical and spiritual ability of the population, therefore, to improve the health of the nation. The second goal is to achieve top-notch results. The third goal is the real representation of Serbia in the world. Sports is a sure guarantee that our children will not go the wrong way, that they will not go the challenges of a modern age, such as drugs, alcohol, crime and bad society. In Serbia, the Sport Act, which is still valid, was passed 12 years ago. There is a new bill, however, in some solutions it is much worse than the existing law. Serbia does not have a national strategy for sport development. There are several working versions, but it has not yet brought this congregation. Serbia still doesn't have a new sport law. Serbia has no law on privatisation in sport. It's completely abandoned preschool sport. That's why our children in kindergartens and kindergartens simply don't have any physical activity, because we don't have teachers of physical education in these schools, although, according to the Bureau of Statistics, there are 1,670 preschools, of which 10 in Kosovo and Metohija, with 173,000 children. There's an even worse situation in school sports. Our founding fathers and high school kids have an average of one or two hours a week of physical education, eight hours a month tops, which means less than 15 minutes of daily physical activity. That's why 25% of our children suffer from obesity, 90% of their spine deformities, and 60% of our children suffer from flat soles. There's nothing like a better situation with a student sport, even though we've won the University. There are no student competitions, no student purchases. In 1998, physical education was abolished at higher schools and universities. How do you solve the problem of preschool, school and student sports? First of all, by working with the Ministry of Sports with the Ministry of Education and increasing the number of physical education classes in primary and secondary schools to at least five hours a week. Most of the budget goes to top sports, but he doesn't, unfortunately, justify it. This is what many affairs are talking about, especially in the most popular sport such as football. More than 10 football club presidents have been killed in the past few years, the General Secretary of the Football Union has been killed, the president of the Football Federation is on the run. It's all about the unhealthy situation in our sport at all. Today, the Ministry of Sports boasts the results achieved by Jelena Jankovic, Ana Ivanovic and others by our tennis players, Novak Djokovic, Tipsarevic and others. However, none of them say this is not the result of the ministry's work, because this country has invested nothing in them, but they themselves and their parents. The situation is the same with disabled athletes, so-called Paralympic sport. They themselves achieve the results by their work, and the Ministry of Sports does nothing to help them achieve the results. Let us remember that they are almost the best at athletics, swimming and shooting in the world. Not to talk about violence in sports. In 2003, the Law on the Prevention of Violence in Sports Competitions was passed, but is not applied. We have so many deaths in stadiums, so many injured cops, so many injured fans, so many broken chairs, a kiosk, cars by the stadium, etc. What does it take to prevent that? Strengthen the criminal measures of this law by amending and supplementing it, strictly apply it and co-operate directly between the Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of Police. To conclude, the situation in sports is not good. That is why it is necessary for this assembly to adopt a national strategy for the development of sports in Serbia, the law on sport, and then the law on privatisation, in order to prevent tycoons and so on. Managers to take over our best clubs and our best sports facilities. The biggest culprit for this situation in sport is the Ministry of Sports, and that is why I do not understand that Mrs. Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, who has indeed shown that the sport has nothing to do with it. Now a few words about the right term of office. As of today, the Serbian government and the presidential regime are being introduced. Mr Tadic was aware that he would lose the presidential election and therefore, in agreement with the US Embassy and with the Cypriot leaders in Kosovo and Metohija, agreed to hold presidential elections before the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija, because he knew, if before that, that the elections would be declared independent by Shipara, that they would lose. That's what happened. After that, the Cypriots declared Kosovo and Metohija independence. When Prime Minister Kostunica, President Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic agreed to organise a joint rally in protest of independence, Mr Tadic did not suddenly appear because his employers ordered him to do so. Only DS and G 17 Plus officials did not participate in the formation of the Serb assembly in Kosovo and Metohija. This shows their relationship with Kosovo and Metohija. How did the For European Serbia coalition actually win? With the help of Europe and promises, with the help of the arrival of the Fiat and Mercedes, free visas and with the help of accession and rapid integration into Europe. His friend Javier Solana, who bombed Serbia, helped him most, and then visited Kosovo and Metohija first after the declaration of independence. The great "democracy" now threatens that the Belgrade government will also be his and will annul the coalition agreement that has already been reached. What's all that saying? It says that we got the first dictator after Joseph Broz, but Joseph Broz was in his own special way a genius, although he hurt Serbia a lot, but this man harms Serbia and not only is he not a genius, but he's just a listener and a puppet of various Solanas, Manter, Renova and others. He has now appointed the prime minister of the weakest candidate, so that he will, in fact, be both prime minister and president. You will see, this is the right introduction of a presidential system in Serbia. You want to co-operate with The Hague, and The Hague releases war criminals such as Fatmir Ljamaj, Naser Oric, Ramush Haradinaj. You don't react to it at all, nor do you care at all. This is indeed the introduction of the presidential dictatorship of a man who has seized all the power in this country, and is unable to fulfill any promise he has made in both campaigns. What about 500,000 jobs and his other empty promises? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1249	There is a word from MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1250	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, a lot of things have been said about this government and about the position of LDP in relation to this government, but I would probably like, as the last speaker on behalf of the LDP, to repeat some of the things we have said from the beginning. It was clear immediately after the election that this was a difficult political situation. That's why we've expressed complete understanding for the DS and its willingness to make a coalition with the SPS. In that sense, we do not think that big words or thoughts should be spent. For us, it is one technical government and what we either hope or expect, it is that all the reform potential of DS comes to terms and that the price that DS had to pay for forming this government, which was primarily reflected in the new government function in the position of Deputy Prime Minister and in the number of ministries that it had to give, which is not in line with the number of votes won, we are deeply confident or we want to hope that DS will take advantage of its reform potential and take the country further. Unfortunately, the exposés, as well as the way this government was formed, have distanced us from the position or the possibility of us supporting that government by voting in the Assembly. Today's exposés of the future prime minister have shown all the flaws or all the problems this government will face in the future. Some problems were still visible during government and ministry laws, when it was clear that the coalition was very heterogeneous, broad, that it would be difficult to make moves that would link it all together. Also, we have an understanding for Mr. Cvetkovic, who may not have political authority, at least as far as LDP is concerned. We can only express hope that he will be able to connect what seems unconnected at first sight. As I was saying, from today's exposé, you can't see that reform potential, and that still makes it impossible for us to vote for this government. But what is seen is a reform or pro-European commitment, with a lot of compromises that the government or future prime minister had to make towards its smaller coalition partner, the SPS. If we look back, all governments had similar principles or similar goals in their formation. It is clear from this that the key thing is not the declared goals in acting on the Serbian political scene, but is a key matter of efficiency. Unfortunately, we don't trust this government in that segment. We reiterate once again our clear commitment and invitation to the future prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic, that support for concrete European moves does not seek compromises with its younger coalition partners, but rather that support for these moves is sought in the Serbian parliament. The LDP parliamentary group is ready to support all concrete pro-European moves, to support the government if it is a difficult pro-European political move to adopt pro-European laws. Once again, don't look for a place for European politics within the government, because these compromises and the price you pay... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The government's result is doubtful. You are looking for that support for these moves here in parliament and LDP MPs, no matter what, are ready at any moment to support every pro-European move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1251	The word is Mr. Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1252	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished candidates for ministers, says our people, if they know each other in the morning, and if they know each other by this introductory exposé and strength and strength Mr Mirko Cvetkovic carried out in his exposé, for God's sake, for us, Serbian citizens, it is not well written. Why? If we look at the personal composition of the future, we will see that the two strongest political figures that are part of this government are not in the prime minister's seat, which are Mrs Ivica Dacic and Mladjan Dinkic. What is one very important thing and we have to mention in this place is that for the first time since 2000, in fact, the real prime minister will not sit in Nemanja 11, but will sit across from this building at Andric's wedding and these are already my fellow MPs repeatedly said, that is Mr Boris Tadic. If we go back to this exposé we heard this morning from Mr. Cvetkovic, I must say, he seems more like some new year's or birthday card full of good wishes. The first beautiful wish is that in some four years we are ready to join the EU. That's the first thing. It is second place to maintain the territorial integrity of the country, so I would like from the prime minister, the future prime minister, to hear if it is possible for us to join the EU with Kosovo and Metohija, without Kosovo and Metohija or with part of Kosovo and Metohija, and I believe that all Serbian citizens would also like to know that. Another very important thing to look at is the fight against corruption and crime. When we talk about the fight against corruption and crime, we can't help but mention the Ministry of Justice, and I don't see a lady who's going to be the new minister anymore. It's a good thing there's been a personal change, because we don't remember anything well from the previous Justice Minister. I don't see any way to fight corruption and crime without having to re-election all prosecutors and judges in Serbia. I must say, perhaps a little funny, besides two such giants in the government, such as Boza Djelic and Mladjan Dinkic, now reinforced with Mr. Krkobibic, we will have a real, hopefully, very intense fight against crime. I'm just afraid that there's not gonna be enough of that fight, but we'll see about that path. This mentions agriculture in the exposé, though very little and very ghastly. Also, I can't see here in Mr. Milosavljevic's O.R., who was Minister of Agriculture. He took a lot of pictures on TV, they say he started a lot, he made a lot of promises, so I'm surprised if that ministry remains the same foreigner, DS, why we're more of a respected expert and acquaintance of Mr. Milosavljevic won't see it in that place but went to another ministry. But what is good is that it promises to help nursing households who have engaged or are engaged in agriculture. I'm just afraid that they won't wait for it, and that a lot of them will die before it comes. I will only tell you one reason, that one family, the average four-member family, which only deals with agriculture in Serbia, should be allocated about 200,000 dinars annually for contributions to social and health insurance. A huge number of families, especially in central Serbia, of the elderly, do not have a certified health book at this time. That's a big problem. Mr. Cvetkovic, as former, or still current finance minister, had to at least work to write off those people's interest on social and health security debts and that these people can, in late years, have normal health care at least. When it's summer and when it's drought, we always remember the irrigation system and everything else. What I would particularly underline, as Mr Cvetkovic said in the exposé, is an accelerated privatisation. Of course, when I say privatisation, there are still public enterprises, in general or parts that will be privatised, I would like Mr. Cvetkovic to explain to us whether this kind of privatisation will be like when he was the director of the Privatisation Agency. What kind of privatisations were then, ladies and gentlemen, and today the Council on Combating Corruption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, by the way, will be said to be abolished in the press announcement. I'd like to hear something about it from the prime minister. What's good, we see that further roads will be built, that the end of Corridor 10 will be completed, that the highway to the sea will be built. We hear, however, that this will be built, or financed from budget funds, and then from loans and from EU prudential funds. My colleagues, and I won't say it again, they said all the preconditions, full co-operation with The Hague about the SAA, so I won't mention it. I am more interested in this item - funding from the budget, since we are from 15 to 20 days ago from the governor of the NBS, Mr Jelasic, heard that the money is missing in the budget, so I am clearly interested in where now billions of euros will be allocated to build a highway to the southern Adriatic. Even if it is said that the budget will increase pensions, and there is no money, and we have not heard an explanation from the finance minister where the money is located and how money was spent from the privatisation of MOBTEL, from the privatisation of DDOR - Novi Sad, from the sale of the third mobile phone license, etc. What is a good thing and should be commended is the promise of Mr. Cvetkovic, the Prime Minister, to iron out salaries of civil servants, which are now in the range of 1-9, and this also applies to salaries of employees in local self-government. I'm at the head of local self-government, there's pay really miserable, there's these big gaps. It would be good to settle it, if not in this one, then at least in the next financial year, but I would like to hear the reasons of Minister Cvetkovic, who was in charge of it in the previous government, why this has not been done before. What can be like a small anecdote, but true, is that Serbia has had six governments in its past history, headed by the current finance ministers, the shortest lasts only a week, and the longest for just over two and a half years, the average took about 11 months, so I sincerely hope that this one will not last any longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1253	The word is Mr. Gojko Radic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1254	Gentlemen, since we have received this list of good wishes and heard a lot of remarks about how no national minorities are mentioned here, that they have not been mentioned anywhere, and they have all been complaining about them, they have all sought their support in the election for the president, in the elections for the republican parliament, and now that it is necessary to reach a 126 figure, how nice it is to do so and how it comes to that number from 126, and get to 129. Why weren't national minorities mentioned here? Someone even said that this exhibit or pamphlet of good wishes did not write a future candidate for the prime minister of government. Then it's clear to me that at least he was present there because the national minorities were left out, at least as far as Subotica is concerned, from that part I can speak, I don't know what's going on around the Raška area, how much the wishes of national minorities are fulfilled down there, but here for Saturday I can say for sure. One of the conditions was that the SVM or the Hungarian coalition would in no way support this government unless it was mayor of their ranks. And don't lie to the devil, here's the deal in Subotica, and suddenly the mayor will be from a yellow company or a coalition for the European Subotica. What's so sudden and so advanced, what's so much more important than the Mayor of Subotica, and all of a sudden they don't need a mayor? Here, I'm going to try to refresh my memory a little bit and give a sense of the reasons that led the Hungarian coalition to help this government, to reach 126 and to give up the mayor's seat, which was so much needed. In a conversation with President Boris Tadic with the older Pastor, Pastor asks him - you know what, what you need so many Subotics, is very important to us, and Subotica means nothing to you, so give us that mayor's seat; come on, we'll see. All of a sudden, on Monday, I'm watching a press conference for the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, where the president of the Duke of Hungarians decidently says -- we have agreed, I have a firm promise from President Tadic, when he returns from Greece, we sit down and sign the platform. Although he claimed that he would not sign the platform, although he did not sign it when it was a condition for the election in the second round for the president, he gave one of his employees to sign it, so later he said turkey dots is not my signature, it is not valid. I really don't know how the Socialist Party is going to go over all this, because I remember one discussion, Mr. Pajtic's visit to New Sad TV, when he said that the platform is impossible to install in our system because it's anti-constitutional, so how can Boris Tadic sign something that's against the constitution? How can their coalition partner allow that? I have information that this platform is being signed on Wednesday. Although it is not excluded, that the yellow company will not fool the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, when the government is chosen to say again someone else will sign, Boris Tadic does not have to, nothing is excluded. So these are things that lead me to something even deeper and longer than that. Three lists and one minority Bunjevaca entered the local elections, the Serb List for Subotica entered, the list For European Subotica entered and the Hungarian coalition entered parliament and one Bunjevac, the party of the Vojvodina Bunjevaca Franciskovic. What's going on now? There's not much votes missing, the arrangements are being reached. The most important thing is that they managed to agree and that the Serbian List is not participating in the government. It is a very bad signal for us Serbs, and here we appeal here in the republic's parliament that local authorities do not keep us Serbs in Subotica, 36,000 Serbs and another 8,600 Orthodoxs, who plead as Orthodoxs and not Serbs, for their efforts and reconciliation around the republican government, because this is one very serious thing, we do not have any participation in the local parliament. So, what's going on? Is that a sign that we Serbs no longer have room in Subotica, that we can move slowly? If we are isolated politically, if there is no participation in political life in Subotica, then there is no possibility of hiring, of achieving our existence, etc. These intentions that the DS has agreed with the Alliance of Duke Hungarians would have a very big wish and we'd like to see what that platform is, what it's carrying. Not to give us a few sheets of the platform and that after a month, two or three months, a year, they say -- well, there's something else, we thought this was irrelevant, so something came up later. It's a uniquely yellow company and DS, it wouldn't surprise us at all. That is why I call on the DS to avoid and place any government and coalition in Subotica without a Serb list on the sidelines of the Serbian National Corps. Maybe someone from the DS will say -- here, he'll be the Serbian president or the mayor of Subotica. You know what, we know there's a couple of stray Serbs in DS in Subotica. You know who they're running for office and putting in for the president of the municipality of Subotica, i.e. for the mayor? A man who's from Kosovo, a Serb. What's going on? They're putting him on as president, and that same man was president of the assembly in his previous assembly, and you know what he did? When we had a rally in Belgrade to support the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, he scheduled the Subotic municipality on that day so that those who participate in political life as few as possible could go to Belgrade to organize the buses and help to make this rally as magnificent as possible, and as many as possible. Then it brings us all back to some time that they didn't promise in the election campaign, something here isn't right. Let the Hungarian coalition explain what it has received so much in return from those strong promises that it will not give up and will not enter the coalition, will not help the republican government, unless it is mayor of their ranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1255	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. There are 11 minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1256	Your Honor, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have heard the exposés of the prime minister. All of this is, of course, packaged in beautiful colorful paper, which reads About the European Serbia Socially Responsible Government, as we are used to when it comes from a kitchen that cooks here across from our parliament and led by half of the idols, the two of them from idols. For years, they have been trying to turn the political scene into an estrada, and Serbia seems to be well guided along the way. How will the government lead Serbia in the future? We can conclude that from what the prime minister said, but even more from what he didn't say. When the prime minister represented the government, or members of the government, he presented that the government would form a coalition for European Serbia and the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition and then, on the way, added that the government would be represented by some minority parties, which, of course, was extremely ugly and offensive, because he did not even deign to say which parties they were and who were the people who were going to be in the government. In the break, I spoke to several colleagues from these "party" and I think that the prime minister is also familiar, about how he feels 18% of Serbia that does not belong to the majority people will probably tell themselves, and I have to remind the prime minister and the ruling majority, that Serbia is a multiethnic society and 18% of the population is not Serbs. After all, the way the ruling majority treated this ministry that was presented in the past week when we talked about the Ministry Act, but also when they said it would form the ministry, and they denied it with the amendment, so they returned it only shows again how many people who are full of the mouth of Europe and who say that the only ones who know the way to Europe are actually people who know nothing about it. I can say that they have inherited the Constitution of Serbia, in which almost one third is practically committed to the matter of the human rights corpus and minority rights, and it is very important that they only accomplish and follow. It's an unacceptable game of trade and political reconciliation that they've tried with this ministry. In the end, this government has shown one thing, it has no capacity or intention to successfully realise minority policy. I'm not even going to mention the subject that's been said enough by not even being mentioned, which is to solve the problem of discrimination against people with disabilities. If I mention only the environment, which is also not mentioned here, I have to say that the way the Ministry of Environmental Protection is composed is actually added to it in the part where it says spatial planning, entire construction and urbanism, which is a huge area, but also the way in which they chose the minister, so one giant for environmental protection, shows in fact that this ministry will be a ministry that neither will have an impact nor will have a budget, nor will it simply be able to follow the step that we're taking. We're gonna waste our time again, we're gonna lose our step in protecting the environment, and we're gonna go back to the 1990s. So everything that's about to be kept quiet is saying enough, no education, no health care, some of my other colleagues will already talk about it. But, according to one NIN title that I liked very much -- the government got Serbia, so now it thinks it's supposed to be a pub, a sale, because since it's a general time of sale, I think they only take it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1257	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1258	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you'll notice, Mr. Cvetkovic, that I don't have this exposé of yours on me. I don't need it. It's a simple political pamphlet. I must tell you, from the point of view of the representatives of one of the very serious and most influential political parties in Serbia, that, as I visited with Serbian radicals all over Serbia in a campaign for parliamentary and local elections, in Serbian radicals I should not tell you about it, but with representatives of your party and your coalition partners I saw much more serious programs for the functioning of local self-government than this exposé of yours. There have also been better written exposés from October 5th to today and what you have titled as government priorities, whose obviously you will be president, absolutely no one reasonable and rational can accept as something that will be achieved because there are not many real bases, and on the other hand, some of the moves you have made to us as priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you will lead, Mr Cvetkovic, will be very unfavorable for Serbia. This republican government, this concept, this concept of yours, per se, and according to the ideology of us Serbian radicals, fully fit into this planetary hegemony conducted by America. That this is true is also seen by the fact that the key role in the formation of the government was given by the US ambassador and I am amazed by the fact that you are on the other side of this so-called exposé, as the priority of your future work in the foreign policy sector, how much memory I serve, and I don't think I am wrong, intensive co-operation with the United States, to improve relations with them, and that they understand that Serbia must be their equal partner in the Balkans. I really don't understand if you guys have any real life with you. Are you following back 20 years? Do you follow what the entire world public is saying and whether, since it is only in the second sentence that you intend to cooperate with these friendly countries of Russia, India, China, the Latin American countries, the countries of the African world, the Middle and the Far East, is it clear to you that all these countries don't really want to intensify that co-operation. They want normal in a conventional, diplomatic sense. We don't, because they took us, or they're trying to take away our southern province, but anyone reasonable now in this situation and in the future consolidation of power, that patriotically and reasonably thinks about their homeland and their people, would look for another direction. This would not be the United States, and there would be no such courtship towards the European Union, which in the process, as popularly said in them, harmonisation, with us, our legislative authorities, the executive authorities, so many bad laws translated into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that not only would economic and legal experts really, but every citizen of Serbia wish that some of these laws never came into force. I'm not surprised that Mr. Bozidar Djelic is not there for you. He's pretty downgraded by his new function. That ink in his expensive pen, which was proverbial to sign something that couldn't come into effect quickly, may still be valid, but it's absolutely no good, because the conditions of all conditions to accept you, to accept you in countries where you're unspeakable, although 19 members of that alliance that once numbered six, today has 27, so the problem with the Lisbon Agreement, so the problem with the fact that many members don't want to have such degradation of their business and that they have such problems in the social sphere, therefore, the condition of all conditions is that you continue to have such a relationship with Serbian heroes and that you are unspeakably co-operating with the quasijud, with an anti-Serbian casamat called The Hague. You have previously used one quite, I would say, bold political flossule today and given the fact that you have for a coalition partner a party that has always held onto these patriotic values and whose president the villains killed in The Hague tribunal, and that same regime kidnapped him on the greatest Serbian holiday. In one part, you used the output of false patriotism, you didn't say who you were accusing, and how you could even talk about something you didn't feel or know. I can look you in the eye now and tell you that you honestly do not have a patriotic feeling and belonging to the state of Serbia. You can say, I'm from Zajechor, and I've been taught that, but what's it worth if you've been taught by your friends and acquaintances who take pictures these days and talk about you as you were in childhood, youth, you've forgotten all that, Mr. Cvetkovic. You entered a machine that means hijacking, robbing, leaving workers without a job. We had marathon sessions of the Committee on Business and Privatisation, where we discussed robbery privatisation when you were the director of the Agency. Today we have marked social problems in Serbia, which you cannot solve. You can't do that because you're not a man of fundamental change. On the other hand, your political authority is nothing. In political theory and practice, you should be the first among the equals. So we have a parliamentary system, this is the most representative body. You should be a prime minister who has the same rights as ministers, but you can't be that because you're allegedly not a political figure, and you could possibly have political authority to draw it from the party you belong to. Even if it were from the establishment of a member of the Democratic Party, you can't have this, this political authority which, by nature, has one Prime Minister, because you are being trampled and undermined by this tabulated Boris Tadic. Why am I saying it's a taboo personality? Radeta's colleague has used very nice folk terms about him and what citizens are saying, but I am more expressing myself as she would have seen it from her high-profile aspect of Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, because I am looking at how the president of the Republic behaves. He imagines that some almost person who has a sacral eagle around him, a person untouchable to whom no one can say anything, and what we have seen, and unlike him absolutely and completely the opposite behaviour, Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS, he has shown that he is a man, imagine what kind of paradox it is, is the president of the DS, who leads that group in our society that rejuvenates democracy. When a former Polish dissident used the expression democracy, he meant that in countries such as post-communist countries, in a situation where someone allegedly wants to promote democratic principles, and it violates them, as Boris Tadic does, we are in a situation that we really must now, 18 years after the introduction of the multi-party, fight for this democratic procedure. Serbia cannot move forward with your cabinet, first because of ministers from your party and from G17, and those from the SPO. By the time I mentioned them, I must tell you, Mrs Djukić-Dejanović, that one of the vice presidents of the party said that he, just like Vuk Draskovic, rehabilitated the SPS because you, Ivica Dačić, Zarko Obradović and Milutin Mrkonjic, were not carriers of the coffin. And if you were carrying the coffin of murdered President Slobodan Milosevic, then they wouldn't be able to sit with you in the government and it would bother them very much. Just so we know what kind of people they're talking about. They never had moral, political authority and credibility. If you think, Mr. Cvetkovic, that in this way and with such a choice of ministers you can lead Serbia forward, you have made a terrible mistake. Because under your authority and this environment, most of them have a bitter experience. Our farmers, the people in the country, have a hard time living, we have a million unemployed. Here sits a man who is the head of the health mafia in every sense, so I would expect from the future minister in charge, say, with the pharmaceutical mafia, and I can expect from you, because I no longer expect from him anything, a man who is fifth in a row minister does not deserve to be treated with respect or addressed by a man, leaving such chaos in his area, but Mr. Cvetkovic, many young couples in Serbia expect you to give a clear answer to what is shouting, shouting at pre-election myths promised Boris Tadic. Tomislav Nikolic and every Serbian radical spoke of it, but in a peaceful voice, with a clear message. Young couples in Serbia today, who cannot have children and are waiting for artificial insemination, do not have in your exposé your promise that the state will free of charge. You could have written it to Tadic, Krstic and Saper this morning, at least for nothing else, because of that contribution last night on state television about the successes of Professor Stojkovic in Leskovac and the fact that only that hospital in a few months has passed 450 young couples, that several thousand of them are waiting for it and that they do not have 3,500 euros. You could have done a lot more, but simply, even though some are trying to glorify your professional qualities, you are not a man for fundamental and fundamental changes in the state, so that all citizens who today are extremely threatened would be better. You can't do that, and if you thought you'd treat criminals equally in front of that quasi-judgment, Mr. Cvetkovic, then at the very least I expect from you tonight or here or when you come out, you'll strongly condemn finally the liberating verdict of the villain Naser Oric. What they did earlier with Shyptarian terrorist Ramush Haradinaj. I expect you, if you are a responsible man, if you think you can order The Hague tribunal so that tonight you will give a solemn statement that, given that all this has happened, as a democratic man to represent the position that Professor Vojislav Seselj has been taken by the mafia regime on the justice of God in the Hague case, and that you will use all democratic means, as a man and as an individual, to loudly say that he should be released immediately because it is obvious that nothing will remain from The Hague tribunal after the trial and what he is doing there for Serbia and the Serbian people. So, Serbia's future is in one piece on this side to the order where Serbian radicals are sitting, people who will always be honest, responsible and fair in front of voters. And what you think is that those over two million in the presidential election, the kind of success that we've achieved in the parliamentary elections alone against everyone, now you can minimize the mathematical majority, which is logical and parliamentaryly justified, make sure you don't succeed. I do not wish you a full mandate, I am absolutely confident that we will bring you down in a short time, because this is what the citizens of Serbia are asking us to do. They have a hard time living, and they can't stand to have a tycoon and a government that's out-of-institutionalally made, contrary to the will of the citizens in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1259	The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1260	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer to part of the exposé of candidates for Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's foreign policy. I want to point out some open state issues that haven't even been mentioned. You haven't told us anything, so I will explain to you on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia that one responsible foreign policy is being conducted. The foreign policy itself must not be party policy, and we are witnessing that lately there have been attempts to keep it on the table. The government of the Republic of Serbia must not be a mere foreign policy executive established by Boris Tadic's cabinet. Over the last decade, we have seen a combination of a weak government, in which there is no authentic idea, and the dominant president of the Republic has not brought well-being to the state, on the contrary. With Serbia in a difficult international position because of the Kosovo and Metohija issues, the state must have a clear foreign policy. Its foundation must be that it extends the agreement of all political actors. We have recently had the opportunity to see that it is possible to make certain shifts and strengthen our international position if our policy is unique, and that it is possible to weaken our position if foreign policy is used for party, pre-election and marketing purposes. Therefore, foreign policy on key state issues, in particular the Kosovo and Metohija issue, must be agreed in the National Assembly in order to avoid autocracy and unilateral opinions in this area. The fight for Kosovo and Metohija within the UN implies further co-operation with countries that advocate respect for Resolution 1244. We must fight against the reconfiguration of the United Nations mission in terms of any institutional introduction of the Eulex mission, because its ultimate goal is to implement Ahtisaari's plan. So, under no circumstances can the state accept the Eulex mission We must continue our efforts to revive the dialogue on Kosovo's status and the Metohija, however difficult this seems at this point. We must fight as a state to accept the results of the 11 May elections in Kosovo and Metohija through the United Nations system, as well as the recently established Serb assembly in Kosovo and Metohija. At this point, our ambassadors who have been withdrawn from the countries that have recognised Kosovo's false state should not be returned. If part of the Action Plan were suspended and our ambassadors returned to the countries from which they were withdrawn, it would be a signal to others that there will be no consequences if they recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Serbia must start a dispute before the international court of justice against those countries that have violated international law. This in no way endangers the economic and other interests our country has in co-operation with businessmen from these countries, because our legal system must guarantee full legal and any other security to all. We must not be passive, but we must fight that no more country recognises the false state of Kosovo. In general, our performance in international forums and organisations must be aimed at preserving Serbia's integrity. Efforts must be prevented from being treated as representatives of Kosovo and Metohija's provisional institutions as representatives of the sovereign state. Therefore, the priority must be preventing Kosovo from joining international organisations and institutions. Serbia's integration into the European Union is something that supports all the political parties sitting in this National Assembly today, but it must be clarified through open dialogue that the EU sees the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, particularly in light of the fact that 20 of the 27 states have recognised Kosovo's independence. The dialogue would not be a waste of time because it does not prevent Serbia from meeting standards at the same time. Meeting standards depends much more on the efficiency of all structures in the country. Let me remind you, and I would especially like to remind Miss Jerkov, who called Vojislav Kostunica an anti-European earlier this afternoon. I haven't heard more nonsense in this room in a long time. So, I remind everyone that the first government, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, received a positive feasibility study, and during the mandate of the same government, most of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations were held. Brussels, under regional co-operation, must not be allowed to impose an obligation on Serbia to co-operate with a fake state-owned Kosovo. It's like they tell you -- you have to cooperate with yourself. When it comes to regional co-operation, it is particularly important to pay attention to the development of special and parallel ties with Republika Srpska and in line with Dayton. We must respect both the Dayton and Ohrid Agreements, but those agreements must be respected by others who are directly interested. The two agreements, as well as Resolution 1244, form the cornerstone of stability in the region. So, respect for borders is the basis for quality regional co-operation, because only if the borders are a stable region can progress. CEFTA is a very important economic mechanism that can improve regional co-operation, but Serbia must give priority to those who respect Serbia's integrity and maintain a certain reserve and measures towards those who do not. We must insist on our foreign political bids, such as the Trajkovski-Kostunica agreement, signed in 2002 in Skopje, on demarcation of the SRJ and Macedonia borders. We should warn our neighbours that they must stick to their commitments, not make unilateral moves, working with those who do not have the authority to do so. In a safe sense, we must insist on Serbia's military neutrality, using the Partnership for Peace as a sufficient measure of security integration. On the other hand, we must not send our soldiers into international missions unless they are under the auspices of the UN, and then we must obtain the consent of the National Assembly. We must insist that KFOR is held exclusively in Kosovo and Metohija and protects Serbs and non-Albanians, not as a promoter of independence. So, Mr Cvetkovic, you are facing great challenges, and the biggest challenge is that after your term, Serbia is not less than 15% of its territory, all because of its membership in the Socialist International. I didn't mistake the organization. The DSS and NS Parliament Club believes that this government will not do Serbia any good, and therefore we will not vote in favour of your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1261	There are still an hour and 45 minutes left for the SRS. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1262	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as a person who in the past four years has been president of the Committee on Agriculture and as a man who spent his entire working life in the field of agriculture doing scientific research, I will speak precisely about what is in the area of agricultural production, as one of the most significant business branches in our country, in today's exhibition presented the candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I think that the more pervasive sighting of agriculture, its perspective and development in this country in this third government, as I listen to exposés, neither I nor my fellow MPs who have also been in these mandates, nor the citizens, above all, are farmers, so the people who are in agricultural production have not heard. Mr. Cvetkovic, I think you had to make an effort to make more than ten rare areas of agricultural production in your exposé, which is on some 12 sides. Agricultural production brought the country a foreign surplus of about $650m to 700m over the last year. It's one of the few branches that's achieved a surplus in dealing with the world. Furthermore, in this area, a large number of our country's citizens who live on agriculture, both farmers and others who have become new agribusiness and who also live on it, but unfortunately employ fewer citizens of our country. It's because of the citizens, and I hope they're following the Assembly, and above all farmers and agricultural producers, because at this time they've already fed and watered their cattle, and maybe next to the television, I'll read what the new prime minister, as a view of the development of agricultural production, has taken out in his exposé. It says: agriculture is a significant business branch for Serbia and therefore it is important to define an adequate agrarian policy, which should respond to the need to improve the situation in this area, in order to deal properly with the challenges and obstacles that international integration brings, above all Serbia's obligations towards the World Trade Organisation (by the way, to say that we are not yet a member of the World Trade Organisation, and most likely we will not be members for some time) and the European Union. It is of paramount importance to focus all potentials on strengthening the competitiveness of agricultural production while at the same time preserving natural resources. Care for the overall sustainable development of rural space must be the imperative of today and the future. Here are respected citizens, respected farmers, all in the exposé of the new prime minister for the composition of the Republic government, which is given on the 12th page, which is given for the area of agriculture. I think you'll agree with my assessment, and especially if I say that in the context of the basic economic reforms, defined as basic directions, the last point is something relating to state land and stands, among other things, to the privatisation of state agricultural land. Mr Cvetkovic, in the current Agricultural Land Act, it is explicitly forbidden to sell state land and it is we MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, and then MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that we were categorically against the legal solution proposed by Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic at the time of the adoption of the law to sell state land and to the common amendments, and the state land cannot be sold in this country and it should not be sold. It's enough that a lot of social land has been sold, some cooperatives of agricultural combinations, even to foreigners. Such a significant natural resource I think would be terrible to allow it to be fully privatised and sold. I think what's written is something that doesn't agree with the Socialist Party's political idea of Serbia and what they stood for, because I just don't believe they've changed their attitudes. What this exposé has to do with the definition, because this is the main goal of this government -- joining the European Union -- and we SRS MPs are not arguing and we are absolutely in favour, with certainly not seeing this approach in this and this way as you see it. And what's true, what our citizens and agricultural producers need first of all to know, is that in the area of agricultural production, there will be significant funding and incentives, primarily from these pre-accession funds. However, for the sake of truth, you must make it clear to the citizens which funds they can count on, the moment they enter into force following the agreement, which is the first initial agreement for our further accession to the European Union and obtaining candidate status? In the current position, we can use two components of these access funds, which is - a component of support for transition processes in institution building, which means strengthening democratic institutions and the rule of law, reforming state administration, respect for human and minority rights, strengthening civil society, helping economic development, reforming education, somewhat protecting the environment, improving regional co-operation and balanced regional development. The second component is to support the establishment of cross-border co-operation. It concerns funding of cross-border co-operation projects, institutions from the country's border regions with institutions from neighbouring countries' border regions. The other three components of these pre-accession funds can't be used for now, and when we use them, you don't even know, and they certainly can't predict the citizens themselves. This is - support for regional development policy, support for human resources development and support for rural development. In fact, most of the component needs to be agricultural and agricultural production. When it's going to happen -- it's on a pretty far and long stick. Therefore, we need to tell the truth to our citizens - what awaits us as a state and as citizens. I must regret to say that there is no current Minister of Agriculture here, unfortunately, no future. I ask the President of the Assembly to make an effort and call on the candidates, because I think it is their duty and order, as well as our MPs to sit here, to listen, so they may hear something that may be useful to them in further work within their portfolios. So I ask you to honor the work of this Parliament and invite them to attend and participate in the debate here as well. The state of our agricultural production, in addition to all the efforts that have been made in these past years since 2000, is still very difficult. Our agricultural production has not improved more seriously, even though I said it has achieved foreign exchange revenues. Because we have objectively much larger resources to achieve much larger production. So today we are significantly lagging behind in the framework of war production in relation to the medium-developed European countries, especially in the area of livestock production. Even to this day, we have not achieved the volume of livestock production that was achieved between 1955 and 2000. This must concern both the government and the new Minister of Agriculture, because we are opening up opportunities to join the European Union and there are already certain authorisations for the export of agricultural products, primarily meat, cattle and milk. We haven't been able to meet that quota we've been granted for three years now, just because we don't have the production volume that we can accomplish. It is time for the new Prime Minister and the new agriculture minister to promise the citizens of this country that they will raise production levels and that at least they will be able to achieve the volume that will allow those quotas. In order to make this possible, they must certainly provide greater budget resources under the overall budget. The strategy for the development of agriculture this ministry, which is still current, has been rule for a year and has not yet adopted it, and here you could hear you still mention the creation of a strategy. We need to stop with strategies, rather than turn to life and solve life's problems, and the first and key problem is that the new government and the new finance minister, the new agriculture minister, realizes that larger funds must be provided for the area of agricultural production. In the European Union, which we are seeking, 120 euros per citizen is allocated to the area of agricultural production, with us at a level below 20 euros. It's almost twice as much, even more so in the surrounding countries, meaning to our former joint countries within the SFRY. If we want to improve agricultural production, the Agrarian budget cannot be at 4.5 per cent of the total budget, but must be 10% of the budget, because so much of the strategy for the development of agriculture this current ministry predicted so much to be the agrarian budget. There's not a word about it today. No wonder we know that Mr. Cvetkovic was the finance minister in this government and that I was not agreed to increase the agrarian budget. Because in this year's budget, I have also proposed an amendment to increase that amount for the area of agriculture, but it is not normally accepted. But if we want to improve agricultural production, increase the level of quality and volume of production and export it to the world market, because that's something that is feasible in this country, then we ourselves have to make efforts to increase the budgets to provide incentives. In order to achieve greater exports, in addition to production security, production volume and quality, we must also bring new legal regulations. I regret to say, I do not know which way here, for this speaker, that the area of agricultural production is at least legally in line with EU legislation in the area of agricultural production. For these four years, only six agricultural production laws have been passed by this parliament. Over the past year, not a single law. If we want to be competitive on the European and world markets in the area of agricultural production, we need to pass urgent and key laws in the area of agricultural production, which are - food safety law, agricultural production law, animal welfare law, plant health law, livestock law, and not to bid, at least 15 laws are necessary, in order to accommodate our agricultural production with the European Union's legal regulations and to be competitive on that market. Unfortunately, nothing today about it, without saying that agricultural producers, these days are about to end harvesting crops. We know for ourselves what already dissatisfactions there are from farmers, especially those who have grown wheat, that by two weeks ago they could have sold that wheat for 20, 22, 23 dinars, and now many buyers and processors are blackmailing them, and they can't sell that wheat for 15 or 16 dinars. In this country, the internal market for agricultural products must finally be stabilised if we want to have stable agricultural production and if we want to have cheap agricultural products on our market. In the end, let me say a few more words, like a man who's a 20-year-old science doctor, about the Ministry of Science. From 1990 to 2001, I was also the director of a research facility. As far as I know, the Minister of Science has never been a face that wasn't a doctor of science. We now have a situation that for the Minister of Science is a candidate man who has no doctoral dissertation and in his biography there is no indication that he has any published scientific or professional work. I think that's something, I apologize for the rudeness, the shame of who's running to be Minister of Science, and also for the government itself. Someone who's in that vault must have references to a research worker. In the talks of the past days, just about Mr. Djelic's personality and character as a potential minister of science, the only thing that in some circles is the satisfaction of his running for the post, is that he is very good and visperous in the security of financial resources and that he received a doctorate very successfully and without doctoral dissertation. Hope is for people who are dealing with scientific research that at least Mr Djelic, if there is no scientific qualification for the minister for the area, will at least provide significantly greater resources for the development of scientific research work in our country than it has been in the past. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1263	You have your word on the Rules of Procedure. As you know, I've invited candidates for ministers and I'm guessing they're monitoring the media of our exposure and our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1264	Article 225(1) I'm asking the question of the future prime minister. Otherwise, I come from the poorest part of Serbia, which is the Jablani County, which has about 242,000 inhabitants. What I'm interested in right now, and you've been talking like that in your exposé, and that's even regional development. At the time, at the Council's proposal, the government adopted a strategy on equal regional development. At this point, you didn't mention it at all. The strategy was agreed by all resolution ministries, except for Mr Dinkic's ministry. Another thing I'm interested in, which is the reservation logs from Jablanic County. In time, 15,000 reservers from the Jablani County defended Kosovo and until today, they have not been paid their daily bills. You didn't mention them at any point in your exposé, so I'm asking you in public and in front of everyone -- are there ever going to be that kind of money, hoping for people who were in Kosovo?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1265	The word is Mr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, citizens of Serbia, political bonton and basic courtesy would require a man to wish a new government success. Here, I want to take the opportunity to wish the Prime Minister the success of achieving some of his goals. But there's one other thing. When you look at the circumstances in which this government was created and when you look at the government's little composition, then you find yourself in some doubt and you have to break the golden rule -- that not one government apriora should be tried, but should be left to them for at least 100 days, so that they can express what they know and know and what they want, and then, eventually, criticize it. Since it's the government of recycled DOS, which, in the moments of its rasul, tried to re-enhancing a fresh transfusion, we know who makes this transfusion, we have, in practice, a continuation of a situation that began in 2000. On the other hand, we have one pretty big government, we have a pretty dysfunctional government. The government, unfortunately, appears to be in the role of achieving a totalitarian regime that wants to be established in Serbia. Namely, an authoritarian figure, decorated in Boris Tadic, is trying to become one right now. You see, Boris Tadic controls his party, when he needs to know and threaten - if anyone is against co-operation with the Socialists, he will have to deal with me. If Parliament is to be controlled, it's doing well, of course, by settlements. Some of the Socialists, and some of the Democrats think they may be both non-principle agreements and settlements. Most of them, I hope, still think that's not the case. When it comes to controlling the government itself, what is he resorting to? Again with the deals, I will not say trade, on purpose, but by choosing a person for a mandate that does not have a great specific political weight. I don't want to offend the mandater, I don't doubt his professional skills, but the notorious fact is that Mr. Cvetkovic doesn't have much specific weight on Serbia's political scene. I don't know if it's in the DS, maybe it's different. Basically, the government seems puppetic. When you hear Manter, when you hear what happened in Shakespeare and when you hear that it was created thanks to the will of the tycoon, not to speak now, it's not important, they're famous, then you can believe it's really about the puppet government. I'm just afraid that the government doesn't cross over into the Quizlin government, because by insisting on co-operation with NATO, by insisting that it eventually enters the NATO Pact, this government would indeed place itself in the Quislin government. You see, after the sanctions, after the bombing, when all our bridges were bombed, all our factories, because of the humanitarian disaster in Kosovo, not to mention human victims, the minimum of self-respect and dignity we must have is to be neutral. We have nothing to look for in the NATO Pact. We've also seen the exposés of the prime minister. Of course, they all characterized it with a set of good wishes, that is, good intentions. However, when you look at the proposal of the minister that was delivered to us here, you will see that we have received the Ministers of General Practice here. They're ministers who can be for anything. Every single one of them can be for everyone. Look, the foreign minister has completed theoretical physics; Sutanovic, minister, slide, defence -- the Faculty of Engineering; Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, youth and sports minister -- the Faculty of Philology, however, has also dealt with the defence largely, even strategic things in the Ministry of Defence. Next time you look, the Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society is an engineer of construction. It's even nicer when you look at the explanation that the quality has defined our mandater to be right for her. You see: managing the skills of presenting public exposure, negotiation, as well as managing organisations and processes. You have further my fellow doctor, environment and spatial planning minister, Mr. Dulic, and then Minister for the NIP Technology and Metaluric Faculty. I could still count, I won't, there's no need. What I'm looking forward to as a doctor is seeing that the government has four doctors, but misaligned, except for one. You haven't distributed well, Mr. Minister, these personnel of yours. I hope it won't be a big obstacle to how-so you do. But let's get out of this. Two regrets I want to make during my presentation. First of all, Mr. Minister, you haven't mentioned a cure to your exposé. You touched him unmistakably in one sentence, he says - in such a society, free higher education will be available to all hardworking students and students, free health care guaranteed to all poor citizens, and all citizens of Serbia will be protected from economic poverty. You mentioned health care here. You're going to say, you're subjective, you're a doctor, and I'm going to try to convince you that it's a mistake that you haven't dealt with Serbian health. Health is a general value, of particular importance among all peoples and cultures, including Europeans. I assume you're looking for Europe. The most important goal of the development of a single society, the democratic water condition of citizens, is not to join the EU, does not bother the Norwegians and the Swiss who are not in the EU, but their citizens certainly have achieved this well-being. The measure of prosperity is the quality of life. In the quality of life, health is the most important thing. Says our people, it's not all health in life, but without health many things are nothing in life. The health of citizens is a basic prerequisite for the successful development of a society. You say - sustainable development, I don't mind. Investing in health is investing in sustainable development, not spending, as you probably, as an economist, think and therefore perhaps you didn't want to talk about health. We single out 10% of gross national income, which is about three billion euros somewhere, you might disagree, I have the data clear that that's how much. If that's the case, then it's probably also a factor in significant public spending, so it's rich and macroeconomic balance. I'm surprised that, as an economist, it didn't interest you, at least that's why you're in health, if not for other reasons. What we must say is the state of our people's health. It's been getting worse and worse since 2000. Why? We get sicker and we die more. It's not for the heart or that negative trend. We are a biologically endangered nation. We're disappearing from this space. Every year there are 30,000 fewer of us, and for your government, that's no problem. Two reasons are the key that leads to this, the white plague, means the birth rate is low, and number two, general high mortality. In this general high mortality, 80% are diseases, non-infectious, chronic, which can be prevented. That's no problem for you, for the state of Serbia. I'm just surprised. The second reason I'm very surprised, and it goes to you, the fourth term you give Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic to run this health care, which has failed to stop anything from these negative health trends. Let me tell you, if he'd managed to reduce by two percent the effective, bone-benefiting, European, world-wide measures of cardiovascular disease control, we could have stopped this kind of dying and draining our nation from 30,000 people a year. It's not done. There are measures, they know, I wouldn't be talking about them right now. You have given the fourth term to a man who has allowed inaccessible health care to be the poorest citizens. Take the Roma, refugees and take the rest of the poor in Serbia. According to some studies, 45% don't report from these categories to benefit from health care because they don't have money. These are UNICEF research, not mine personally. Serbia has not adopted a health policy programme with clear goals, with time-demand and quantitative indicators of success, and has had to. The European countries have been applying a health strategy for eight years until 2020, and we don't talk about it. For three years, European countries have implemented a strategy to prevent and control chronic non-infectious diseases. She was only given to us this summer for public debate. Now, what is this gentleman's fundamental falinky, who is otherwise an extraordinary doctor and an esteemed expert in his profession. He didn't reform the health care system at all, and he had to, in this country. What was I supposed to do? He was supposed to put in the center of the healthcare system primary health care, give her top priority and importance. Why? To prevent cheap bone-benefite measures from getting us sick and dying. He could have done that. And he spent money and directed it into expensive sophisticated medicine, into scanners, and we're where we are. It's clear why. It took him six years to pass five laws, two of which are system-based -- health care and insurance laws, which are prescribed by the laws of the surrounding countries, poorly concluded and, which is even more difficult, corrupt. Waiting lists and extra-standard services have opened the door to systemic corruption through these laws. A basic package of national health services has not been adopted, the minister argues that there is, allowing equality and equal availability of all citizens to our healthcare service. Non-transparent projects are projected under the auspices of the Ministry of Health. So 30 projects have been completed, and 75 projects are under way. We don't even know the perpetrators, and a lot of money is being spent. Credits are taken to do so. When we look for data, we get easy answers to go to the Ministry of Health site, where there's nothing but the title of the project, and if you're interested, he says, come to us, it's a big building, and we can't put it on the site. To mention blood transfusions, sevenm euros have already been hit, and a second blood transfusion project is on its way. The project purchased apparatus with donation money, and at the same time the same budget appliances illegally, with the help of Bozidar Djelic, were also bought, which is the most common crime. We have an unintegrated private sector, and 25% of consumption goes to the private sector. With us, the private sector has been reduced to the work of an extended doctor of state. Absolutely can only generate conflict of interest and nothing good. Our patients can't choose a doctor for their money taken from them and going to the Health Insurance Fund. It's completely unreformed health insurance. Citizens have absolutely no impact on the distribution of the health dinar that goes out of their pocket. What is reality, this minister, together with the minister, is not going to name him, the financing of the former, your colleague, to name him, not to object to confusion, not to find himself offended, that is the Dinkic, nowhere in the world, and there is no such impact in Europe on the spending of a health dinar. The Ministry of Health controls all tenders, sets them up and decides who gets them, and often gets what is needed for health care, from apparatus and from consumer material and through contracting, without tender, by direct guessing. There are abuses possible and the entire public is buzzing about the robbery and theft that is done this very way. You're such a man, Mr. Minister, chose to run your health care. I'm not asking you to explain, it's not your fault, we know how it's going and how it's coming to you to accept it, to swallow it. You have absolutely nothing to ask yourself. This poor health condition, according to all health indicators, cannot be justified. Since 2003, with 65 billion dinars in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, we've come to 2008 where we have 163 million, plus spending money from the budget of the Ministry of Capital Investments, plus local self-government and foreign loans, by 25% has jumped spending in this budget. What are the results - none. Mr. Minister, you were wrong, or those who wrote this to you, not to mention health care at all, it's a disgrace and a shame, because this country is sick, people are dying and we're disappearing from these areas just thanks to a bad health situation, not to mention the white plague that you barely, the authority itself, mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1267	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1268	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, at the moment we had a debate on ministry and government laws on the agenda, I said that the structure of ministries and governments can actually see future exposés and what this government is going to do. Unfortunately, I was wrong. There's little to see from this exposé and little to say what this government is going to do. What's obvious is that the exposés that we've received today are very vague. Because when, as key elements on which there is full consent from coalition partners, it is written to you that this is a commitment to Serbia's European future. What is Serbia's European future? In what referendum did we declare Serbia's European future? When you write that your goal is not to accept the independence of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija; it is the most undefined key obligation of someone who claims to run the government. Next, you cited the necessity of strengthening the economy. Whose? What's that? The economy of Mladjan Dinkic and his friends or the economy of Serbia? The strengthening of the fight against crime and corruption speaks sufficiently of the composition of your government. The fact that you hit Djelic on the fingers and put away as Minister of Science and Technology is not enough. The fact that you have stressed and re-absorbed respect for international law is just saying, Mr Cvetkovic, that whoever wants to wonder about everything, Boris Tadic, is inappropriately courting those who have allowed him to decide on this government. With all due respect to you as Minister of Finance, I must say that you qualified for the post of prime minister by defending yourself with silence at all objections from the opposition. It was your qualification for all the remarks that we've been making here and the hardest I'm going to keep repeating, when compared to the National Bank, you were dealing with monetary-credit issues and printing records, or withdrawing money from optics, and I said that you were damaging the budget, you said, I asked, they told me it didn't cost much. The finance minister must not ask and tell him but must be sure. I expect this from a new member of the government to deal with these issues. What, respected citizens, was clear to everyone and was clear the night the elections ended is that economic power conditioned political decisions. The founder of the most powerful banking dynasty, Meyer Amsel Rothschild, said in time - give me control of the money and I don't care who makes the laws. This government is also formed over the control of money in the country and on the outside. I can also illustrate with two awards, one of Euro Mani magazines, which as a Serbian radical would say "Euro Mani" and what any Serb would have to say the euro, which Mr Dinkic received in Washington at a meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and the other one was given as the most European from another organisation in the country. It was the first time in the history of our parliamentaryism that the authorising officer so clearly showed a connection with whoever realised his interests in the country of Serbia. That's why Mladjan Dinkic has a ministry that some call Frankenstein, some call an octopus, and I call him powerful by the most powerful man. So economic power has conditioned this type of government and policy that will certainly not be implemented in the interest of Serbian citizens. In realising this European future, I will repeat because of the citizens of Serbia, you have an unequivocal commitment to the European future. You are not telling citizens that only in one of the 27 countries has the right to declare itself, in Ireland, on the Lisbon Agreement, or on the European future, and this only case ended in failure, or by refusal. This was commented by the Czech leader, rightly, that it was an avalanche that was launched, currently happening in Germany, where Mr. Horst Keller postpones ratification of the Lisbon Agreement, confessing and showing that it is necessary to verify that their basic law is in line with the Charter or the Lisbon Agreement. This constitution, like the ultimate law for you, is a plastic toy that is shaped according to its own political needs. Polish President Leh Kachinski also refused to ratify the agreement. It was a welcome welcome to Mr Sarkozy of France for the start of the presidency, which, I quote his sentence, said - concerned citizens of Europe are wondering whether the national framework is protecting more than European? I will ask myself, as a citizen of Serbia, if someone has the right to demand that we transfer our rights to a supranational government, while one hand giving independence to Kosovo and Metohija, or Kosovo, for them, and the other hand erases all borders. And don't make sure that your naivety is a promise to use European funds and that that's the reason for the European future story. The story of Europe, respected citizens, is an agreement of European bureaucracy that cannot continue to function and is openly acknowledged that the German admission until these internal institutional problems of functioning are resolved. Now instead of us solving basic life problems by redistributing what we're earning, an existing budget, you're asking citizens to deal with, for example. By translating 160,000 pages of a 10m-euro law; instead of not talking about high public spending, it is about the structure of this public spending. They're repeating a very good example. While one part of the family from the same state budget is starving, another is looking for a ticket to the Caribbean or shopping in New York, as Siepa did, under the cover of export promotion and our companies abroad. In this exposé, respected citizens have no word about the payment crisis, the import lobby and the resolution of these problems, there is no word about how tax expenditures will be covered by tax revenues, how we will do it by privatising, which is all in the lower branches, because there is nothing to sell anymore, we will pay for public debt, and there is already a imbalance. But that's why there's one sentence that's in the domain of beautiful dreams. I wish it were true that our gross social product would grow at a rate of 7%. Dear citizens, fellow economists, you'll know I'm telling the truth. From 2000 to today, the social product has grown at an average rate of 5.3. He was only two years older, not because of Euroreformists, but because of God's conditions and agricultural production. According to estimates of respectable economists and the official study of the International Monetary Fund, the country's 4% growth is projected for next year. We don't need a story about better life as a dream and as a lie, we need real reasons to believe that this better life will be possible by giving people the chance to earn a better life. When Mr Dinkic received a prize for all the most privatisations, the destruction of the banking system, normally, they called it terms that coincided with their interests, they said: a man managed to turn the deficit into a surplus. And you, Mr. Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, are the first man to turn that fake surplus into a real deficit, admit it here at the pay phone and say how much it stands for, and yet say it's not all, that part of the debt to the Health Insurance Office, which Mr. Dinkic has not shown, and that we will have to deal with that problem further. What I'm particularly concerned about is that you, with the story of economic improvement and the story in the European future that is supposed to provide us with, are also offering a story about America, which we're going to sort of put to work so much more for our interests. You know, the price of friendship with rich people is very high for countries like ours. You know, we need to remember one of the sayings of billionaire Paul Getty, who says that selfless friendship exists only between people of equal wealth. As America respects us, we saw it at the recognition of Kosovo, as they say. They say nothing personal, the loyalty of Albanians is worth more than friendship with you. It is truly unacceptable for me to bring into the same plane one Russia and its selfless commitment to fight for our territories and for our interests, with one America, which in this way shows nothing personal, there are many who are eager to join us, because we as rich and strong always have friends. I'll talk about all the remarks I have on this later, but I have one special question. No one mentioned counterpart Diana Dragutinovic, who as a non-party figure becomes, if you get most, a member of the government. Comrade Diana, I wish you good luck and success. I hope it doesn't matter that you came to the National Bank in 2004, when Milojko Arsic and Mr Dusan Stojanovic left the bank, really not to you. All your statements regarding the need for bankers to sense what the economy of this country is, that they must be partners with the National Bank, but that your interests are conflicting, I will see as good intentions. But if Dusan Stojanovic, who works in responsible jobs at the World Bank, had to leave the National Bank as Mr Jelasic's first associate because he couldn't stand to be told -- not a monetary entertainment committee -- when it was asked to return funds from foreign reserves held at the Euroaxis Bank to the National Bank. And when those two vice governors made a point to him that he couldn't treat his foreign reserve like that, they were both forced to leave. Mr. Stojanovic learned about the change in the leadership of the Vojvodjanska Banka and the Commercial Bank from newspapers, and was directly responsible for the control of these banks and then had to advance overnight, to bring about measures to address the possible consequences of individence. I sincerely hope that the fact that nothing is mentioned about fiscal policy and the measures to be taken in this area have nothing to do with your experience, I suppose, and the pressures and expectations that you had in the National Bank. I expect this government, Mr. Cvetkovic, when you are elected prime minister, not to defend against the citizens and the opposition by silence, but to discuss here the laws that citizens must bring to a better place. This may not be expected from those who recommended Tadic such a government, but the citizens of Serbia expect it from you. Make sure you get a passing grade from them, and you'll have consistent critics in us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1269	Thank you. Mr Milan Avramović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must remind you of certain facts that occurred after the election campaign to get to the very point of exposure. So, to make the most amazing deals and combinations and that everything is put on the market, like ideals and principles, and honor, so who can take more or who takes more, as in this exposé, should show us this exposé. In order to keep in mind important events during the pre-election period, I need to remind you of some things, the UN tribunal report. As a consequence of the report comes the arrest of Mr Zupljanin, then the adoption of an anthem in the Kosovo Assembly, the work of the UN Secretary-General on the further presence and functioning of UNMIK in Kosovo, the declaration of Kosovo's constitution, etc. In order for us to remember these facts, we have come to the situation that it is important to provide and home the party people, which is seen in this exposé itself, that not those who do their work but the work that is entrusted to them, that it can therefore be concluded that money cannot be lost from anything but from one pocket to another, that it is not important from which vault it is passed, but that it is important from which ministry their party received on this coalition agreement, and that some Renaissance people, who know all about it, remain in this government. That means basically, briefly and clearly, that we have a party state. Today is a dangerous situation, bad in the judiciary, in the D.A.'s office and in the entire state administration. There's been various attempts, it's moved a little bit better, a little bit forward, a little backward, but it's basically a simple conclusion that we have a party state. That the yellow company has again established the principle by which the delusions of citizens will set the example of "Fiyat", the deception of citizens lasted in the election campaign itself. I would like to say, in order to get to the exposé, a few more things about "Fiat", which is that in its statement on 13 April 2008, "Fiyat" wrote that on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding, the "Fiat Group" and "The flag", with the support of the Serbian Ministry of Economy, it will form joint teams that will examine the different aspects of this initiative more closely. If it is concluded that it is feasible, the company will conclude an agreement over the coming months. Nothing's accurate, I don't have time, I'd like to give a little more detail here. The prime minister's exposés, he said, will already on the other hand: Serbia's government will continue to improve relations with the United States, with the goal of the world's greatest force in resolving disputes in the Balkans to a greater extent respecting the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. It means that the government also knows that the government has admitted that the United States did not respect the government's views and that they were never on the Serbian side. On the same side, it says, side 2 - in the implementation of diplomatic initiatives for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, the government will, as so far, co-operate closely with the Russian Federation and all states. What is it about working closely with the Russian Federation? Didn't the Russians get enough information on whose side they were? I'm just gonna run a little over this exposé, then I'm gonna come to a certain minister. Page 3 says -- the new government will launch an activity for the survival of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija to improve its economic and social position. Now I ask all those who control this government, especially DS officials, which is why no amendment to Article 23 has been adopted. A proposal for a law on ministries, which clearly requires that the term "areas" be deleted be deleted and that protection is understood throughout Kosovo and Metohija. That's the question we expect in the end. Page 5, special attention will be paid to creating conditions for a free competition where all participants are equal. Do you remember ratifying the CEFTA Agreement in the Assembly? In this agreement CEFTA knows how much is equal, we talked a lot about it. Page 6 says this - there will be a continuation, the construction of an efficient and economically sustainable defence system for the construction of a modern, professional and efficient army. Mr. Sutanovac, is the modern and efficient army, which we have from day to day, an increasing number of homeless soldiers? Is it an effective army that in the city center the barracks doesn't have five days of water? Is it an effective army for paying off good business with Algeria through the SDPR, whose chairman you were? Or Ilija Pilipovic, the one you set up, your student-day friend? But there's time, I don't have much time for other colleagues right now, I'd like to tell you a lot. Page 7, says, continue co-operation with international forces, UN institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. Two days ago, we had a situation not to give the president of a municipality, who was legally elected to enter the municipality building. It's a side. 9, says - Serbia's rapid economic progress will increase the possibility of hiring and resolving housing issues of young people and represent the best dam in their departure abroad. That leaves you 500 young people in one year outside the borders of this country, 450 gone, you stopped those five DS members, in fact 495, and you stopped those five DS members you gave the job and the apartment to. I don't have much time, there's an effective fight against corruption and crime, especially in diplomacy. I ask today where are the Verulovic brothers, called the Burgundy Brothers? Are they in Paris as foreign ministry advisors, security advisers? We have here traditional DOS fluids, more specifically DS government. Since I don't have time, I'll just remind you of a few things, that the youth of the DS have, in time, accused the G17 party and shared a flyer called corruption in front of everything. You've listed a series of affairs here. It is proof that you are also aware of the fact that who is sitting in the bench with whom the president of the parliamentary group said that this cancer will work very quickly. Serbian citizens have only one task. As this government will not last long, for four years, don't worry that you have made four years of satisfaction because their survival is becoming less and less known.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1271	The word is Mr. Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1272	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, Article 125. The constitution stipulates that the government is made up of the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers. The government begins its term of office by taking an oath. He will swear that he will perform his duty in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of this state, although at that moment the Constitution is being violated, because in the government, the first president will have a golden vote, and then one vice president, a deputy president, as well as one minister who will be headed by the Ministry of National and Investment Plan, to whom all ministers will be subdued, because he will decide on where and how money will be spent, because he chooses projects to be funded. This is the government, which unfortunately supports 19 political parties and will experience an even worse fate than the first DOS government in 2000, which was supported by 17 political parties. I believe that even MPs of the congregation can't name all these political parties. This just shows that in the development of parliamentaryism and democracy we have not far gone. At this point, when one is formed, it seems to me, an unnatural coalition, we're asking one logical question -- why shouldn't the DS, why shouldn't the G17 be in opposition? What is it they have to cover up or what is it they can't find out? Since the land of heaven has sworn to know all the secrets, however, so much is known, and much shall be revealed, for you yourselves will speak. This government, fortunately, will not last, because it is solely in the colossal interest made, and perhaps in personal interests. Since the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was the basic reason for forming this parliamentary majority, I need to quote someone who understands the way the EU works. He understands much better than many of you, and this is because the EU's propaganda in our country is very successful, while the IMF is extremely unpopular. However, Article 117 states that the EU will coordinate its policy with the IMF exactly. Joseph Stigic, winner of the Nobel Prize, former member of the Council of Economic Advisors and chief economist of the World Bank, writes that the IMF's policies led to famines and riots in many countries. He points out that the IMF is a political institution holding speculators in business and concludes that IMF policies were those that undermined the market, as well as a longer-term stability of economy and society. Therefore, the Stabilisation Agreement will not bring us economic progress. On the contrary, national humiliation will continue to bring Serbia's economic downturn. One more thing, gentlemen, what we are particularly interested in is what your cooperation with The Hague will be like. Same as I'm assuming so far. How are you going to deal with all these illegal privatisations? Will you question them? You won't. Which means you'll legalize them. Who lied to whom in the election campaign is the question that Serbian citizens are asking themselves today. We are not, all those who form this government are more or less. On October 5th, we know who chased whom through the cornfields. Who will now chase you through those same cornfields - your voters, the voters you cheated on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1273	The word of the Messenger of the people is Radisa Ilic; after him is the messenger of the people Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today on the day of 2008 Serbia is due to receive a government elected by the votes of those MPs who, their politics, saw their ideology in a coalition of democratic yellow internationalism and red proletariat, which would be said to be a small Comintern. So we will have a government that will blindly stick to Serbia's Stabilisation and Association Agreement to the European Union, so that the government will have to establish good neighbourly relations with all those countries that have recognised the European Union countries. Thus, and with the false state of Kosovo. Whether they want it or not, they'll have to go to Thaci because that's what Djelic's signature obliges them to do. The government does not want to truly defend Kosovo and Metohija. How do you explain the fact that the Democratic Party did not allow its committees to take part in the formation of the Serb assembly of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija? Why? Because the formation of the Serbian assembly condemned the United States, Solana, Hashim Thaci, Sejdiu, Merkel and so on. Who is the chairman of the Democratic Party's Regional Committee whose mandate was carried out by Democrats in Kosovo and Metohija? The man's name is Goran Bogdanovic and, which is absurd, that man will be minister in the new government of the Republic of Serbia and that is Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. Simply amazing, the man was a minister of agriculture in the Rugova secessionist government of Kosovo, at a time when Serbs were killed throughout 2001, 2002 and 2003, throughout Kosovo and Metohija, both in a masculine and insidious manner. And now it will sit in the government of Serbia, which is about to fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, and that is precisely against those whose government it sat in a few years ago. So, one who will have to co-operate with authorities in the Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija after the May 11th elections will be Goran Bogdanovic, who did something contrary to the desire of the vast majority of legally elected Kosovo Serbs on June 28th. If the president of the Republic fled to Romania on 21 February not to appear at a rally for Kosovo and Metohija in front of half a million Serbian citizens, if Goran Bogdanovic fled the Serbian assembly in Vidovdan, I can easily assume that the government will fight for Kosovo and Metohija. You had the opportunity last week to hear the presentation of SRS MP Dusan Maric, a man who carried out a difficult task that consisted in one, to keep from forgetting the monstrous crimes against the Serb people. Some in this room have been creeping around listening to what Naser Oric and his criminals and monsters have done to the Serb enemy, but the UN tribunal has cleared him of all charges of terrible crimes against 3,500 Serbs. How will you, future members of the new government of the Republic of Serbia, cooperate with such a court because you are forced to do so under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? Will you acknowledge this court's co-operation and these unfair verdicts as in the case of Oric and Haradinaj? I would personally be ashamed to support this kind of government that will look like the servant of The Hague Court, Solana and Olli Rehn. We will continue to have a state summit lined up in front of some Brammerco, until yesterday it was Carla del Ponte, watching bowing, apologizing for not sending another Serbian head to The Hague. There are many more reasons why I don't believe this government will be good for our country, for our economy, for our security. Who and how does he keep our safety today? Who protects our sovereignty? As far as our army is concerned, here is the future defence minister, capable of resisting the enemy today, given that NATO has suffered reforms written in Brussels, which Boris Tadic first conducted and then Dragan Sutanovac. The mandater's exposé says the strategic goal will be to continue the construction of an efficient and economically sustainable defence system, the construction of a modern and efficient army. What does it look like in practice? The army has barely 27,000 soldiers, making regular, professional, as per contract. If it is a public secret that the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija can raise as many as 80,000 people in arms for a very short time, I wonder who will stand up to them. Perhaps Minister Sutanovac hopes to be stopped by KFOR, NATO or I don't know who. You personally? Hardly. What kind of strategy is this when thanks first to Tadic and then to Sutanovac we stayed on only 248 artillery tools, two cannons per city and a town in Serbia. To defend ourselves when the Sutan army turned Hare Krishna into an army, it takes the army to its father-in-law's concerts. One Albania has 1,497 artillery tools. What's the status of the planes, tanks, armored vehicles, etc. I can't think about my colleagues. I warn Serbian citizens, they will have a hard time with this Serbian government, they have received what they have not voted for.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1275	The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Radet, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1276	I'm sorry that Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic left, she might be of more help in this case. It is, in effect, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Article 113, Mrs Comic, says the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on order at the meeting of the National Assembly are applied to all other participants at the session, next to the MPs, and are applied accordingly to committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. It is obvious that these provisions also apply to candidates for ministers or ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Komic, you have seen and followed all along that this son-in-law of Miroslav Ilic, whom even the Prime Minister doesn't know his last name, has already written that Sutanovic, has left so much a trail in his work, of course left many negative and dirty clues, but this will be the subject of some other debate, you have watched all the time he throws to the MPs, very boldly, very rudely. At one point you even confirmed his pitching by throwing you-- yes, yes, yes. So, you were expressing some personal satisfaction yesterday, today Mr. Sutanovac expresses some personal satisfaction regarding Boris Tadic. I would pray that you do not present your intimacy to the National Assembly. Keep those pleasures for somewhere else. I warn you, Mrs. Comic, that you are under the obligation to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly, in order at the National Assembly, because what happened to you the other day when you voted on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so because you are so in violation of the Rules of Procedure, what happened to you today was on the agenda, I am not sure that this was an accident, that all, Mr. Sutanovac, your MPs voted that Zoran Djindjic was the mafia Prime Minister, because it was highlighted as a breach of the Rules of Procedure and they voted not to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. This time, too, I insist that this also be put in the voting day for the MPs to declare whether, Mrs. Komic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure by allowing the gentleman, whether he is Sutanovac or Sutanovic, I do not know, because I have read that Sutanović, and until now he has represented Sutanovac, so that he has injured the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Sutanovac, you may not have finished that water purchase of Toplice Milan in your area yet, and I know you filed a lawsuit and I can't wait, of course, against me, but you will be sued by a public prosecutor, it hurts much more.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1277	I ask the National Assembly's service to be made known in the day of the vote, and after this session is finished, the MPs will declare whether the injured Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, is a member of the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament of the Republic of Radite. National MP Momir Markovic throws out the bench. I've just been warned that I'm being overly patient with the National Assembly's meetings by allowing candidates, and the People's MP, Verice Radeta, throws her out of the bench. Since candidates for ministers cannot address the National Assembly, but according to the Rules of Procedure, they are participants in the National Assembly session and I ask all candidates for ministers, and while they are candidates and when they become ministers, to listen with attention and respect to all MPs regardless of the political group, the parliamentary group to which they belong, because this is their constitutional and business obligation to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Zoran Krasic throws the same thing out of place, and he is not in place, other MPs are getting it. There's a word from MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, in the exposé of the agricultural mandate is very little said, although agriculture today is a very important business branch, especially today at a time when food shortages are in the world. While I was a farm student, they taught us that Vojvodina's cereal was then Yugoslavia and that it could feed all of Yugoslavia, even Europe. Today, however, we come to a situation with no concern for agriculture to import and food. Since I'm coming from northern Banat, I'm close to the problems of farmers and villages, so I'm going to keep your attention on the farm, which is what a large number of our citizens live on. Our municipality of Kickinda achieved significant results on the assistance of the village and farmers. Those results would have been much better if we had the support of our government. Agriculture has been highly neglected in recent years by the government and the Ministry of Agriculture, as if the aim of the state is to destroy a small farmer, i.e. Households that process small areas of land. Our farming households, with so far the structure of the sowing, time-consuming machinery, nursing households, can hardly compete with the great owners who process several hundred and thousands of hectares. All this leads to today's poorest citizens - farmers and citizens in the country. In order to improve the very poor position of farmers and to prevent further poverty of villages and farmers, the agriculture minister must first of all have the will, and then to invest a lot of knowledge and effort, to make better days for agriculture. Based on our community experience, we have come to some conclusions - what needs to be done in agriculture. It is, first of all, to organise education - to healthy food through knowledge and standards, to change the structure of production. Secondly, to pass the law that all registered agricultural holdings are exempt from customs duties for imports of machinery up to five years of age, and that tractor up to 100 horsepower, which is enough for agricultural households, and for all connective, seeding and irrigation machines, to help restore the machinery, with less steam. Thirdly, it is necessary to supplement the Law on Agricultural Land - that only citizens living in the Catastrian municipality and legal persons engaged in agriculture from the Catastrian municipality should be entitled to employ the existing population involved in agriculture in the first round of state leases in public competitions. Then, pastures that have been used for years as processed agricultural land, that the purpose of these pastures be changed by law, and that pasture users have the right to incentivise as a working agricultural land. Fourthly, each municipality should make a strategy for the development of agriculture by 2013. That's what we did to see which direction agriculture should go in the municipality. Fifth, we need to make a agricultural basis for exploiting agricultural land in every municipality, that's how it's done with us. Sixth, due to dry years, do a crash-stimulating program. Seven, make a forest base for every municipality. Eight, as soon as possible to pass a new law on cooperatives. Ninth, do a self-employment programme in agriculture and processing to employ as many farmers as possible. Tenthly, in municipalities do education of agricultural producers, teach them codes of conduct, finance, marketing, as well as help them build a family business plan. Finally, we have to hope that the new government will come to mind and allow young people to find their interest in agricultural production and stay in the country to work and live from their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1279	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. After him, the People's Messenger, Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1280	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 9:15 p.m., until the discussions are over, until the vote is passed, in a deaf time, when it is time, Serbia will receive a new government, the government at midnight. But Serbia will get another October government, this to make Serbian citizens feel free not to fear them. This won't take long, it has pushed Serbia over its head and many more serious natural disasters than this government will be. The Minister of Finance, to inform the Members of Parliament who have asked why they just keep quiet, why they don't come out to answer - so he's been defending himself with silence ever since he became Minister of Finance. Do you remember answering any question from the MPs? He comes, he says, sits and sits all the time, though very politely, unlike what sits next to him. The exposé that he read us very fluently, we got the exposés and I followed -- he didn't do anything wrong, where the point was emphasized, where the point stopped. So I can see that our future prime minister reads very well - fluently, easily and wherever he should raise his voice. But the exposé, ladies and gentlemen, is a list of good wishes that literally have no guarantee that they will be realized. He offered us a finance minister, future prime minister, the European future of Serbia. First, as far as I know, Serbia is in Europe. If he thought he was going to get us into the European Union, then he should have said two things - when and how. As far as I'm reading, and I feel like I'm reading the real newspaper, there's no way we're getting close to that European Union by 2016. And what did the finance minister, the future prime minister, say, will lead us into the European Union? With this standard that we have, with a sold-out economy; there is little left to finish, and then you can step on the light at the Balkan pub, because after that Serbia will not look anything like anything else. The economy from this exposé of Mr. Finance Minister, the future prime minister, comes down to two basic points. The first is borrowing and borrowing, and borrowing and borrowing and borrowing, and the second is selling this little public enterprise, this little property that's left, social property, and after that can be hit by a lock. The Minister, Kosovo and Metohija said, through all means of diplomacy, we will fight to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, and then we will go to convince them not to accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and we will not go to convince those whose words depend on a lot of things both in Europe and in the world, because they have already recognised. Are we going to convince Italy - it's right under our noses? Are we going to convince France, we're not going to? We are going to convince Spain, which otherwise knows that if this happens with Kosovo, that in a very short time, several regions will disperse. Not Spain's pain, our suffering, but hers that follows, comes from our torment. Will the government defend Kosovo and Metohija by co-operating with EULEX, which, as soon as it enters the ground of Kosovo and Metohija, annuls Resolution 1244 and literally paves the way for the fulfillment of Ahtisaari's plan. Pensions? I remember in the election campaign, and even in post-election negotiations, there were talks about a minimum of 70% of pensions compared to salaries. Now we're talking about maximum. Mr. Nikolic said well, and for 48, it's a maximum of 70. So it could eventually reach 70. Gentlemen, I have two pensioners in my house and I know very well how they live, and I know very well that they thought differently when you said a minimum of 70%. To inform them and all the other pensioners, gentlemen of the pensioners, they lied to you, this 10% increase will mean 800 dinars for someone with 8,000 dinars, and for those who have 80,000 pensions of 8,000 dinars. Therefore, as when Prince Nicholas shared the grain, if God has given you, I will give you and I, if God has not given you, neither will I. That's exactly what this exposé points us to. Global security? The one sitting here until the future prime minister, NATO's student, has very well mastered that course there for several months. Sir, don't throw it at me, you're not in a bar and you're not in a discotheque, where you worked as a bouncer, now you're in the National Assembly, sit down and listen to me, if you have something, come out after me and tell me. Who's the guarantee of global security? Is that a NATO pact? Is this the same NATO pact that loaded thousands of tons of bombs into Yugoslavia? Is this our army, an army that can't buy a BVP vehicle, because the minister in the adaptation of his apartment from the state's money, from a pair of armies, bought chandeliers worth about that BVP vehicle. Agriculture, only four rows, but four lines that come out clearly -- if you've been robbed so far, they'll still rob you. Therefore, gentlemen farmers, don't count on this government, count on its fall soon. Health care? Which, for God's sake, is free healthcare, when she's a positive list getting shorter and shorter. Soon we will have to go to a private pharmacy for aspirin, because they will not be on the list in the state, and you will have to go from the first pill to the most expensive operations yourself, because Tomica Milosavljevic is promoting healthcare for the fourth term. I remember what health care was like when he was, and now you can all see. Some ministers are scrambling to stay in power. For some ministers, there are only twice: a trip to a ministerial chair or a road to Bachvanska. First time they finish their ministry, they'll meet right there. The Hague Tribunal? Gentlemen, will you condemn The Hague, gentlemen, future ministers and future government? I'm sorry, to be quiet, not to wake the minister, to see the shrubs. Will you condemn those 12 dead? The Serbs went to the Hague tribunal alive and well and returned to the coffin. Will you condemn the trial and judgment of Rasim, I'm sorry, Rasim, Naser Oriæ, a liberating verdict for everyone but the Serbs? In the end, gentlemen, in that first government, two ministers voted to become ministers. You're making progress, now you've got five of them, I'm just wondering if they'll vote and if your votes will be valid afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1281	National MP Pai Momchilov points out the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1282	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, citizens of Serbia, I advertise members 104 and 113. It's the same situation over and over again. Madam Chairman, you're supposed to be responding to benching. It's happening again, and you're not responding. Why aren't you reacting? It's very interesting. Many of my colleagues here have said that today we are attending the collapse of parliamentary life in Serbia, that parliamentary democracy wants to be replaced by the president. That is exactly how certain future ministers behave. We don't mind the number of present here, which is never complete, which speaks well of the relationship of the future executive authority to the legislative one. To tell these future ministers, in the system of parliamentary democracy, if it will continue to apply, there is a division of power and that power is divided into legislation, which is directly the bearer of sovereignty. We are directly chosen by the people. Gentlemen, you're choosing from the congregation and you should be aware of that. You are servants of the people, if you are true ministers, if you understand your duty and you need to act accordingly. So, you're missing the basic home education and understanding of parliamentary democracy at the moment. Mr. Prime Minister, you cannot bring this flock together at the very beginning, that is, the problem, you will certainly not be able to do it in the future, but at least we ask you to draw attention to these two things: the system of parliamentary democracy and the elemental home education. You're throwing it at me now, and that's very rude and rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1283	Is the People's Messenger Pai Momchilov asking us to make a statement about the injury? The MP says there's no need for us to plead this injury in voting day. The People's Messenger, Milorad Buh, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have been paying attention to the exposés of the Prime Minister for the formation of the government, expecting that in at least one sentence, at least in one letter, I will see the concept of refugees and internally displaced persons. Unfortunately for me, and unfortunately refugees and internally displaced persons, the prime minister and most did not mention refugees or internally displaced persons in this exposé, and the same was not done last week in two system laws: the government law and the ministry law. Therefore, I must rightly say that refugees and internally displaced persons in the Republic of Serbia are citizens of the second, third, or who knows which order. When we discussed the proposals for government and ministry laws, I insisted on most of them inauguring the refugee ministry and internally displaced persons for several reasons. One reason is that over Serbs from Republika Srpska, from the Republic of Croatia, genocide and ethnic cleansing has been done from BiH, such as in Kosovo and Metohija, done by Albanians, because it is the poorest and socially endangered category of the population in the Republic of Serbia, because of the property, property and social rights that remain in Serbs in both Croatia and BiH and KIM. It would be appropriate that this very structure of people has its own ministry, which will take care of our dispossessed rights in the former republics of the SFRY. On the other hand, we must say that in Serbia's space today lives in a different status, whether they are refugees or refugees with the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, whether with or without a settled residence, about 700,000 Serbs, 300,000 internally displaced persons, means, a million people in the status of certain hopelessness, the social state of impotence. It would be appropriate for someone to take care of them. I'll just tell you that the legal regulations relating to these persons do not confirm the concerns of this country. We only have one official law on these persons, which is the 1991 Refugees Act, which unfortunately has all those shortcomings as well as all the laws in those previous periods. Instead of accepting the initiative of refugees, refugee associations and understanding the essence of these people's lives, this government, most of them, to discuss their problems here at the assembly and other state institutions, to help that people; unfortunately, there is no help. I am taking this opportunity to meet both the prime minister and the candidates for ministers, since there are old and new ones, that in this area we have more bilateral and multilateral agreements that oblige this country, the state institutions commit, and you, as managers of these institutions, will have to go into the realisation of these agreements and the strict application of all that is provided for in these agreements. The first agreement is from 1996, which is an agreement on normalisation of relations, which recognises borders between Serbia and Croatia, namely the AV borders, and one and the other countries have recognised sovereignty and territorial integrity. However, what is important in this agreement, which is that members have committed themselves to return to the refugee and exiled population. So, the Republic of Croatia was under the obligation, in accordance with the provisions of this agreement, to return the refugee and exiled population from the territory of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. It has been 12 years, only 5% of the population, the exiled Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia returned to Croatia. The same agreement envisions that all burned, destroyed, seized property be returned to Serbs, even a fair fee is provided. Unfortunately, only 5% or some percentage more than burned, destroyed, devastated, stolen property was returned to Serbs. What about the other 95%. Who cares about that property? Nobody. Is there a free and safe return? There isn't. The Serbs who return there are mostly old, 60, 70, 80 years old, the young do not return there. Why? Because various forms of shagging, discriminatory methods, administrative procedures are being carried out, judicial proceedings prevent not only the return of property and social rights, but also the return of property and social rights. Furthermore, I will mention the 1998 social security agreement that obliged Croatia to orderly settle all acquired pension rights, linked to disability and other social benefits. I asked the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in 2007 about the fate of all pensions that are citizens of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, which were right to do so from 1991 to 2003 when this agreement was ratified, why the 24,000 Serbs who have achieved this right do not receive and do not exercise the right to retire in the Republic of Croatia. Here is not a candidate, it is the new-old minister, Rasim Ljajic, who responded to me here and confirmed that 24,000 Serbs, who have achieved their right, cannot enjoy their pension in the Republic of Croatia because Croatian authorities do not allow it. The administrative procedure for resolving pensions in Croatia takes too long. Too long because the Croatian state does not want to give Serbs the right to do so. Let me tell you, 24,000 pensions, with an average monthly pension of 400 euros, that is somewhere at 120m euros, the Croatian state should give to Serbs, and that does not allow them. I ask the candidate for minister, why does nothing do to his Ministry of Labour and Employment to speed up the process and give it to Serbs. I have to mention, for a short period of time, very short, what about the conflict agreement? The younger one was here, it's in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Why isn't he insisting on strict application of this conflict agreement? The 2005 Sarajevo Agreement was signed by both Croatia and the Republic of Serbia to return tenant rights to all Serbs who had achieved this right by 1991. None of it was achieved by Serbs. Since we are citizens of the second order, we are asking this government to move towards the realization of all that the Serbs had. What you've done so far represents nothing. I hope that the new government and the ministry will remove all those obstacles that the Croats create for us in terms of achieving our property, social and all other rights, obtaining documents and everything that bothers the Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1285	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Jeremic answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, after today's exhibition of Prime Minister Cvetkovic and the announcement of the candidate's name for members of the government, I am quite sure that the creation of the most important portfolio under the name of this government has been missed. Many facts suggest that the Manter-Zez government expects us to do anything but the government that will be socially responsible, which will be determined to fight corruption and which will give Serbian citizens at least a slightly better life. This is, now it is quite clear, the shadow government, and it is the shadow of the building at Andric's wedding, which will essentially not interfere much with its business. The Idoli will be responsible for that. Starting with Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, and for the sake of citizens who may not know him enough, it's just reminders, it's about a man who was the director of the Republic's Privatisation Agency in the period, behold, the wonders, the very biggest privatisations in this troubled country. In the previous government, he was the finance minister, and by the logic of things, along with experts from G17, to the greatest extent responsible for the fact that inflation has already reached the originally planned 6% annual level in six months, and that the cost of life has exceeded inflation. That in Serbia, the highest unemployment rate in Europe, unlike corruption, is almost a million people without a job, that 450,000 are extremely poor and approximately the same number of people employed in bankrupt companies, the SRS ambassador group has indicated countless times so far. The state's economy, co-ordinated by DS, G17 and Idoli, is sufficiently highlighted by the fact that the growing external trade deficit, which in six months exceeded $5.2 billion and whose participation in GDP has long crossed the red line, threatens to threaten macroeconomic stability and the challenges of the currency crisis. What are we going to do to Mr. Cvetkovic, Dinkic, when the privatisation runs out, where we're going to settle the foreign debt wars? Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the economic bossing of the DS and G17 is extremely badly ranked. The World Economic Forum is ranked only in 91st position in the country's 131st competition. What's absolutely devastating is that we're at the beginning of a list of 27 transition economies. Then what are we talking about? What better life do you promise citizens? Slow privatisation, low level of corporate governance, productivity and investment in research and development, do not give me absolute hope for better quality living conditions in Serbia. Will DS, G17 Plus, Idoli Enterprise, and everything under the conductor's rod Boris Tadic, manage to provide three billion euros of foreign investment, how yearly according to expert analyses, is it necessary for the participation of investments in the gross domestic product to be at least 25%? They won't, because a better standard of citizens will be taken care of by those who have brought Serbia to where they have brought it for the past eight years. When Dinkic and Jelasic conduct, we are the country that devalues the world's strongest currency. In this case, the National Bank of Serbia, by increasing the reference rate, is actually raising money to businesses and citizens, the course is falling because it is left to the fate of offers and requests on a small market, and inflation is growing normally. Such an unresponsibly irresponsible economic policy is the highest cost, and who else - to citizens and businesses. So, the government in the shadow of the building on Andric's crown is obviously so tight that it is clear that it will crack already at the first major temptation. This is a group of people of irreconcilable political commitment, a group of people or a call to government in which the orthopedic will be in charge of spatial planning, Tomica Broz Milosavljevic will welcome the fourth term, the Serbian Movement disaster is Dana's collateral damage, while the son-in-law will continue to command the army, which we have less and less. In diplomacy and after Wolf Wolf, this time as an unfathomable prime minister, because unfortunately he didn't audition at the Idol. And about two without corporal Dinkic-Djelic, there is no need to waste words, oars, unfortunately, for the next few months, as far as I expect this principled related government to survive. It praises only Vlahovic, for whom it is a surprise that he himself is not a minister, when he has already shown in the previous period how it is ruled by the Serbian economy. I won't talk about the other members of the government. Today's a red letter. What a coincidence. I just wish they'd been denied by the saying over time - who you're with, that's who you are. So, Serbia cannot expect anything good from the government, which is a puppet theatre in which the strings are drawn by Boris Tadic, but the SRS will do anything to properly compromise them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1287	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by Mr Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1288	There are two big reasons why I answered and called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The first reason is that I have not yet received a notice, not only me but also the MPs and the public in Serbia on a note about who will vote today. I didn't get an explanation, and I don't know how people can function as MPs if they don't know what system of values in advance, and you're all calling for some system of values, okay? In order to meet the formal condition, in order not to get a warning and not take my son's shoes, I have to state that, except for Article 183. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I think it's rude in the announcement of an injury and a member of 127. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What's this about? We in these two ranks at the beginning have candidates for members of the government, but we also have some people who are also MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that whoever changes his status and is a candidate for a member of the government, could not and should not, by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, vote for himself. What's this about? It is the fact that a member of our Rules of Procedure points to the obligation that whoever proposes the Prime Minister is obliged to deliver an explanation, and here we have no reason to believe that a future candidate for Prime Minister is required, but we do not have the consent of candidates for members of the government. It's probably a lack of Rules of Procedure, but, on that path, when Bosko Ristic changes to one of his apartments, he'll probably have this in mind as well. But from the point of view of this National Assembly, it's totally immoral for a man to vote for himself. Today we will have six potential candidates for members of the government who may, if the quorum is secured, be elected by voting for themselves. I can understand this dictator Tadic, not a maniac, that you are not immediately angry, because he does not mind the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, he is obliged to reverse that will, with the support of his friends abroad, which is precisely those who bombed Serbia and G 17 plus persistently calculated that the damage is $32 billion, if I remember well, and I think I remember well, because the chairman of that commission in front of G 17 was Predrag Markovic, now a very successful member of the management board of Telecom. There's nothing he can do that's not a folk MP. There's far more to be received. So the National Assembly must make several technical decisions before voting on this government's election.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1289	Mr. Krasic, time, it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1290	I'll get back to you. No problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1291	The word is Mr. Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1292	Dear MPs, the respected presidency, as one of its foreign-political priorities of the DS and the new government highlight Republika Srpska's defence and strengthen special ties with Republika Srpska. It's a simple public deception. For a short period of time, I will only list a few examples that illustrate this claim. Instead of developing special links with Republika Srpska, the DS is developing exclusively special links with Milorad Dodik, by system -- it has unlimited number of support in pre-election campaigns, they are Milorad Dodik's villa in Dedinj and the possibility of winning an unlimited number of tenders on road asphalting in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to Milorad Dodik, I think it is necessary to point out that it is the man who brings to an end these days and months the job of abolishing Republika Srpska's police, which is the last foundation, the last pillar of the existence of Republika Srpska. Otherwise, in Serbia's DS mandate, during the DS mandate in Serbia and during Milorad Dodik's mandate in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska lost most of its Dayton responsibilities. The democratic party in a perfidcan way is undermining the Republika Srpska. I'll give you three examples. The common known fact is that Muslim extremists led by Ali Izetbegovic in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina were challenged. The official policy of the Democratic Party and Boris Tadic is that they are the most guilty of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slobodan Milosevic, Serbs and the SPS. Two years ago, an interview with Muhammad Filipovic was published in one Sunday in Republika Srpska, the main ideologist, called Tunjo, the main ideologist of the Party of Democratic Action and the closest associate of Ali Izetbegovic. He explained in the interview that the main culprits of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina are Ali Izetbegovic and Warren Cimmerman. Tunjo explains every time Ali Izetbegovic agrees to Slobodan Milosevic's offers, a plane comes from Belgrade with Warren Cimmerman, who convinces Ali Izetbegovic not to accept a peaceful solution to the dispute in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Next, two or three nights ago, I was talking about Potocari on July 11th, 2006, when Boris Tadic went to Potocara to bow down to two thousand soldiers, while refusing to attend a parade in Kravica and Bratunc on the next day, on June 12th, organised for the deaths of 3,500 Serb civilians and captured Serbian soldiers in Podrinj. In the end, I'll say a few words about the crimes in Sarajevo. You know that during the war in Sarajevo, 5,000 Serb civilians were killed. During the war in Sarajevo, there were 90 camps where Serbs were tortured and killed. Over 40 public houses were registered where Muslim soldiers held Serbian girls and women until the 8th or 9th month of pregnancy, when they were either killed or released. You know that such two buses arrived in Belgrade in 1992. In these camps and public houses, such cases of monstrous torture have also been recorded, such as the case of a Serb who was forced to rape his 12-year-old daughter to save her life. For those who do not believe it is documented, it is located in a documentary centre here in Belgrade, and it is published in the book of Miroslav Toholja - "Black Book". At this point, over 2,000 Serbian Mayans are in Serbia's Sarajevo looking for their sons. You don't know where their bones are. Boris Tadic went into it and such Sarajevo, apologized to Muslims for the crimes committed against the Muslim people. Let me tell you, there's nothing controversial about that apology, it's a good thing he went to apologize, but before that, through diplomatic channels he should have provided for such an apology from the Muslim side. However, while it has been 13 years since the end of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no apology for the crimes committed against Serbs has been heard. All this says Boris Tadic's promise to develop special ties and to defend Republika Srpska's public dizziness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1293	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot help but conclude after today's discussion that the future Prime Minister is an extremely brave man. To become Prime Minister, this government with so many parties and ministers, or parties that are opposed to each other, is simply an incredible courage. Mr. Cvetkovic, I assume you're a serious man, no matter what the story, and that you want to take a job to do that job and that's fine. But immediately, the question arises how is it possible for you to accept being Prime Minister without literally having any authority. They are so opposed within each other's governments that some may lose their hands. You remember some messages from earlier years. It says in advance that this government, as well as these previous governments, will be nothing. What you of the Democratic Party are announcing is someone so-called. Reconciliation, national reconciliation or some reconciliation simply won't give you any chance to overcome all the problems you're going to face. I don't know what you were fighting about first or what you were fighting about. I assume you've had a conflict over wanting to come to power. Both, which is perfectly normal, legitimate, political party and among other things, is her primary task, to fight and to rule. Now that you're both in the same government, then you decided to perpetuate it with an official act of reconciliation, because I can understand that there were conflicts, if there were conflicts they were probably on the left. I don't know how different conflicts can be in a state where the parliamentary system rules, where parties under the law can fight for their position on the political scene. Also, Mr. Cvetkovic, there are a number of things that you in this exposé in some way promise to the citizens of Serbia, and they absolutely do not stand. They're just impossible. You say the key elements of a programme that has the full consent of all coalition members will be a commitment to Serbia's European future. Mr. Cvetkovic, that future seems to have to go through Ireland, Poland and Germany. It seems that this European future has nothing to do with it for a long time. You, above all, should turn to the future of Serbia and the future of Serbian citizens, because that is what you should do and that every government does. You say that by joining the EU, Serbia will become a full member of the European family. Just one little detail you should have mentioned here - when, Mr. Cvetkovic. I'd like to ask you, if you'd step outside, to say when it will be, in how many years? In how many decades will Serbia become a member of the European Union? During that time, you will try to bring the economic system closer to the standards of the countries of the European Union. Here, I'm going to tell you about a certain state or a situation where our country is related to the European Union, because, among other things, in this exposé, you've stated that you're going to compare the number of employees in the state administration and so on. Mr. Cvetkovic, I don't know if you know that in 2001, the state administration, without the interior ministry, was employed by about 8,000 and some workers. In December 2004, 27,000 were employed. That's three and a half times more than it was in 2001, more than in Poland, Finland, and I don't know what countries. Imagine how many other workers are employed in the state administration from 2004 to 2008. (President: Time. Thank you for helping me. Just don't wave too much. How do you think you can compare the number of employees in the state administration, when that number has grown so much that there is hardly a mechanism and way, even if you want to do so, especially if we have in mind that all the parties that came to power were both hats and fists dragging their members, sympathisers and so forth, to arrest them and find them a job. Here you say that Serbia will be fully prepared to join the European Union at the end of the government's term. This is just amazing. Mr. Cvetkovic, how do you plan to accomplish that in a year? What do you think, you can last more than a year? Well, since 1990, apart from the government of Mirko Marjanovic and New Democracy from 1994 to 1997, no government has lasted a full term. Well, take just since 2001 how many governments were -- the government of Zoran Djindjic, so Zoran Zivkovic, so Vojislav Kostunica, for the first time, for the second time, so here's this one. Well, look, take just how many governments there have been since 2001, and you say you're going to do it at the end of a four-year term. There's nothing to do, Mr. Cvetkovic. I can give you a warm recommendation. I'm sure you won't get involved much in your work, but I'm distracting you, but as the director of the privatisation director, you've provided yourself with a serious consideration of your activities, see now that you're on the sidelines, and yet you won't have many opportunities from your vice presidents, who are trying not to leave, as our people say, what the eye sees is carrying.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1295	The SRS has also taken advantage of its time and since there are no more candidates on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask before the search is concluded whether they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or of someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Aligrudic has six and a half minutes left, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1296	In this second part of the exposure, I'm going to say a few things that I didn't get to do in the first part, about something that's got eyes in this exposé and something that's not in this exposé. So on page 12 of the paper that we have received, which is precisely what someone has said, read the mandater, says that the new government of the Republic of Serbia will continue its policy of strict respect for international law and immediate reconciliation of all international obligations. On page 2, it says, among other things, describing some foreign policy role that is not defined here to the end, that the Serbian government will seek to improve relations with the United States, with the goal of the world's greatest force in resolving disputes in the Balkans area to a greater extent respecting the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. Now watch the contradiction there is. On the one hand, Serbia is said to continue its policy of strict respect for international law, and on the other hand, the government will seek to improve relations with the United States, which are a form of disrespect for international law on a number of grounds. Let's just remember the US decision not to respect the International Criminal Court in Rome, which practically does not exist for them, which emerged from the UN decision, which is of no importance to the United States at all. Let's think about the violation of international law by the United States when they admitted the false creation of Kosovo and thus actually opened a serious bilateral problem in our relations. He's real and he exists, he can't be ignored. That's why I think you put into exposés or expressions in terms of explaining some of our foreign-political strategies that the Serbian government will try to improve relations with the United States itself does not mean anything. So, the main issue that is raised not only in relation to the United States, but also in other countries that have recognised an independent false state of Kosovo, in which it is thought at all that these relations with these countries are being nurtured, improved or improved, if this key issue which is controversial in our bilateral relations is not removed. I don't see any kind of strategy here, or tactics, in which way this issue would be put on the agenda in bilateral relations between our countries and how it would be removed. So there must be some strategy. If there is no strategy in bilateral relations, there must be another diplomatic strategy that we talked about at the very beginning, which cannot even be seen from this exposé, which is what diplomatic and legal means, although it is just listed in the exposé, the state of Serbia will use to reach this ultimate goal. I know that it is not easy for some countries that have made a decision to recognise the independence of our territory to withdraw that decision, I know it is a process that is very complicated and complex, but I am interested in what the government of the Republic of Serbia plans to do in this field, which is the means, what with the lawsuits of the international court, with lawsuits against those states that have recognised independent Kosovo, what about our fight in the UN system. So none of this is mentioned here. We have even been able to hear about it since the current foreign minister's several sentences over the past few months, several possible announcements, several unsaid things, and in the exposé of the prime minister, not a single word about it. When it comes to the strategy of foreign policy relations, it has nothing to do with it, because it states here that the idea of the Serbian government is to pay attention and cooperate with all countries of the world. Well, that's awesome. Each government in its own exposé would say in its own exposé that co-operation with all countries of the world is necessary. However, there is a problem, the country faces a group of countries that do not recognise its self-loathing and territorial integrity and another group of countries, which fortunately is still greater than the first one, which respects Serbia's integrity. There must be some fine difference in tactics when it comes to these relationships. There's nothing to say about that. On the other hand, the question arises when it comes to relations with Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to relations with secessionists of the part of our territory, what is the relationship towards those persons who have carried out that secession or tried to secession of part of the territory. What about the domestic prosecutor's criminal charges against Thaci, Sejdiu and the others? Can we stay deaf and keep quiet about what's going on with these things? It is impossible that we do not have any reference to these circumstances in the exposé of the prime minister, because they are essential, etc. All in all, not to be too long, since time is running out, I will conclude, as I have concluded the first part of the presentation. The paper in front of us or the speaker's speech is one big nothing, from which there will be a vote on a government that will be voted on, which will result in a lot of things, and that has nothing to do with Serbia's interest, or the interests of Serbian citizens, but has to do with the interests of those who have formed this government, from domestic tycoons to foreign centres of power, whose sole aim is to create conditions in the next period of legalisation of the new fact. And that's the independence of the work of our territory. I wish I were wrong about this, I wish your activities would deny me in the future, and I wish I wasn't right, if this government did do something useful for the citizens of Serbia, because it's primarily an interest, and everything else doesn't matter, but I'm afraid it won't be. I'm afraid it's that ugly and dreary painting that's waiting for us in our external relations. When it comes to internal political relations, I'm afraid we've finally got a government that looks like the time of Slobodan Milosevic, when someone from another place, and not from Germany, is dealing with the regulation of political relations within the government itself and bringing together the incompatible in a single continent. Good luck to you, though I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1297	I give my word to the candidate for Prime Minister, Mr. Mirk Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to thank you for participating in this discussion and for a whole series of remarks and ideas that you have made, including some very inspiring discussions. I'd try to sort of group some attitudes and give my opinion about it or maybe some answers, but here we can call it an opinion. The first group is a group of remarks related to the global content of the programme. The group does not need to co-operate with the United States, and I do not think about this last discussion, there were several of them, there should be no EU courtesies, it is too reform-oriented, but there has been and the observation is too little reform-oriented, compromise-oriented, it is not a good order of objectives, and first it should be one, and then the other and the objections are really legitimate. However, it should be borne in mind that this is not about the entire assembly's work programme, but about the majority work that formed the government. It is quite logical that other parties who are outside and have a different view of solving the problem and that those from their point of view say - should not co-operate with America or should not be your first order of business as an EU rather than something else, so that I would not comment on these remarks, because those others who have made these remarks, that they had a different view they would probably be part of the government and then find themselves in these definitions that are exposed in the exposé. The second group of objections are remarks, conditioned to say, linguistic type, in the sense that this word is not good, it's better this one, it's like this, and I wouldn't comment on those remarks either. All I'm saying is if someone has some really nice linguistic solutions, they can send them, so we'll consider it and we'll include it in the final version when it's uploaded to the site. In this group of remarks, I conditionate and remarked that there is too little ambition in the goals, because it is not said that something is definitely ending, and among other things it was proposed to write instead of strengthening and strengthening the fight against corruption, to say the elimination of corruption. I'd also like to explain myself there to a sentence that was given about at the end of the exposé, which was mentioned here in a sense, but it seems to me with an insufficiently good emphasis on it. The sentence reads that at the end of the term of office, its results will have to be considered on the basis of facts rather than on the basis of prejudice. That's why everything that's written here is subject to court and that court is a fact, not a court of preconception. We know it's impossible to root out corruption and we're not going to write that we're going to root out corruption in four years, because we know we're never going to root it out completely, because nobody in the world has done it. We know exactly what the basics of corruption are, and that's what we're saying, and that's what we're going to be working on. From the point of view of such an approach should be understood by other attitudes mentioned in the exposé itself and wherever there is some explicit hardness, this explicit claim is essentially a commitment that at the end of the term everyone will be able to verify and quantitatively sum up with what is set up and make a decision on it. The third group of objections are objections about the lack of individual parts, and then it is mentioned that there is nothing about energy, food, decentralisation, no concrete projects etc. I would like to reply to this observation that this is about one, in a sense, non-standard concept of exposure compared to what we had in our previous years. And in fact, the usual practice was that, after seeing the basic political messages, it would move on to explaining what individual ministries were doing, and in this respect, it would be long, and then everything would be mentioned. Here the concept of exposé was to keep it shorter, to focus and focus on the goals to be achieved, without the ministry, or the perpetrators, being mentioned, but to be functionally linked to the objectives. For this reason, certain things from here are left out, but not essentially, because the assumption that each of the ministries has a similar set of objectives that fit the general objective of government work. When it comes to concrete projects that are not mentioned, it is true, but not entirely. In fact, here are some projects that fit into this model that I was talking about, the model of the score assessment. Let me remind you that the Corridor 10 project has been mentioned and everyone will have the right to say in four years - whether you did it or not, because our result will be summed up from the point of view of whether it is done or not. Finally, I would like to give answers to three or four specific questions that have been raised, which I believe should be held accountable, with a note that I am not going to be implicated by a variety of detailed and specific issues that are not appropriate to the subject of today's debate. About the questions that were given here, I think they're significant three. The first question is, why isn't that so-called exposé in the exposé? National reconciliation, and first of all, I want to say that we are not familiar with this national reconciliation, we are talking about political reconciliation. Secondly, this is about an exposé which is a government programme document, and this political reconciliation, as far as I know, will be a document between the two political parties. So it's not functionally related to this exposure or at least not the way I see it. Other issues are tax issues and fiscal policy at all, which has been criticised here that it has not been brought in enough. What I'm trying to say is that it's conditionally correct. In fact, it's said, if you're looking at the budget, it's some kind of sublime of all the fiscal activities in this country. It is said here that the policy of the budget is set in such a way that it will actually go towards a surplus budget, so on towards a budget that will generate plus, not a deficit like so far, over the next two years. The view, an advocate for a surplus in the current budget, is a position that automatically gives tasks to full fiscal policy and now bid whether some rates will move up or down are the matter of the finance minister, who should respect this general goal. Finally, the third question that I think needs to be answered is a question about the ratification of the gas arrangement. One MP asked if it was a coward's egg, etc. The answer is no. This is about the ratification of the document that was adopted, so there is no new document that would be produced, but a document that has been signed and adopted. By the way, you have no right to go to ratification of the amended document, as some suggestions were heard in time when one other document was concerned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-07-0.u1299	According to Article 192, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule July 7, 2008, as a day for voting on a proposal for president and members of the government. We'll approach the vote in five minutes, so 10:00 p.m. [[After break – 22.20]] According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the candidate for Prime Minister, the programme presented and candidates for members of the Government before the transition to decision-making, I remind you, according to Article 192, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for the President and members of the Government in general by a secret vote unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. I propose that the National Assembly on a proposal for president and members of the government vote publicly - using an electronic voting system. I am putting the motion to vote on a proposal for the president and members of the government to be voted publicly using an electronic voting system. For 126, against 26, 10 did not vote, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on a proposal for president and members of the government, using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the proposal for the President and members of the Government, using an electronic voting system, I remind you that the National Assembly shall vote simultaneously on the Government programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government, Article 127(3). The Constitution, and that the National Assembly decides on the choice of government as a whole, Article 15(2). The government law. In accordance with Article 127(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 15(3). Law on Government and Article 192(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the government was elected if the majority of the national MPs voted in favour of its election. I am voting on a motion for president and members of the government as a whole. For 127, against 27, there was no vote of 10, out of 164 MPs. Since 127 MPs voted for the proposal for the president and members of the government, representing most of the total number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has chosen the Government in the proposed composition. Let me congratulate the President, Vice-Presidents and Government ministers on their election, on your behalf and on your behalf. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Zoran Ostojić, at a session on 7 July 2008, at 18.25 hours, indicated that the president of the National Assembly had injured the Rules of Procedure by not applying the provisions of the Rules of Procedure over multiple violations of Rule 104. The Rules of Procedure, as also indicated by MPs Ivan Andric, Dr Vladan Batic and Slobodan Maras. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether the President of the National Assembly has injured Rules of Procedure for 33, v 109, abstention one, did not vote 65, out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the president of the National Assembly has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 7 July 2008, at 21.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 104 and 113. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 76, against 118, six out of 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I now set a 15-minute break for the elected members of the government to prepare for their oath before the National Assembly. [[After break – 22:45]] I ask the MPs and members of the government to take their seats. Before we continue our work, I would like to inform you that I have received the resignations of Dragan Jovanovic, Goran Bogdanovic, Oliver Dulic, Ivica Dačić, Dr Jovan Krkobabic, Milutin Mrkonjic and Dr Zarko Obradović as a member of the National MP. And now I ask the President, Vice-Presidents and Government Ministers to, in accordance with Article 16(2). The Government Act, they approach to take an oath, or to stand up. (The president reads, and members of the government repeat the text of the oath. ) "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and with my honor, I pledge to respect the constitution and the law, that I will perform my duties as a member of the Government with security, responsibility and commitment and be committed to the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia." I ask the President, the Vice-Presidents and the Government's ministers to sign and hand over the text of the oath. Let me congratulate them again. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 99. [[Applause]] Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008 and invite members of the Government, MPs and representatives of the media to cocktail. Here you go.
