ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1393	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we ask you to begin work to determine if there is a quorum needed to work. I find that there is a quorum needed to work and I'm setting a break until 13 o'clock, when we will continue to work in today's day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1394	I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following deputies: Zlata Djeric, Radojko Obradovic, Dragoljub Micunović and Elvira Popovic. The government has proposed by letter No 02-1489/08, since 16 July 2008, to change the order of agenda items by considering the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the continuity of state policy in relation to Kosovo and Metohija, instead of being the first, as the last item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. First the quorum. Five minutes break, and we'll do it again. The MPs are coming in or we'll wait. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) The vote continues. You'll get your word right away. I took a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] I'm putting the motion I put forward to change the order of the agenda. For 135, he did not vote one out of 136 MPs. I realize we've decided to accept this proposal from the government. Before we move on to the debate, just to inform you that, due to changes in the name and composition of the parliamentary groups, the following parliamentary groups have been educated in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica, Milos Aligrudic is appointed as the president, and as deputy MP Radojko Obradovic; the Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS) - Unique Serbia (JS), the National MP Branko Ružic is appointed as the president, and as deputy MP Dragan Markovic-Palma. We're moving on to the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1395	Thank you. Madam President, I'm afraid you are breaking the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia again. As the voting procedure was carried out, not entering the fact that there were enough voters, that the decision was made at the end by an adequate number, the way you started the vote was not in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, you put the first motion for a decision to vote that you didn't determine the quorum before, then some icons started to appear on this display that we're all looking at, and in the end we didn't know what you were actually doing, whether you were determining the quorum, whether you were putting the motion for a decision to vote and so on. If you don't believe me, look at your own stenogram of what you said. That was my reason for reporting to the Rules of Procedure. It is impossible to put the motion to a vote in the voting day unless you have previously found that there are 126 MPs. You're obviously right later, but you didn't react properly at all in the first place. Look at the stenogram, look what you said. Whenever you do so, expect those who are in the way of harm to the Rules of Procedure to respond. That's all it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1396	I'll take a look at the notes. However, what I wanted to tell you is that because the MPs came in at the time of the vote, I set a five-minute break, we re-determined the quorum, and then we came forward with the government's proposal on the order of the agenda points that we're going to discuss. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I object to the violation of article 100, the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. You, Mrs Dejanovic, on several occasions, by interviewing the newspapers and statements you make to the electronic media, insult the dignity of the National Assembly by transferring responsibility for the dissatisfaction of the National Assembly to our representatives of the opposition in this Assembly, continuously repeating the same flossule as we are obstructing the work of the Assembly. You will see what the obstruction of the work of the National Assembly means. This has been an attempt so far to teach DS democracy respect for rights, rules, order and law, not only in the National Assembly but in all of Serbia, since you ladies and gentlemen are seducing terror in Serbia, as you take over local authorities as you please, as you hold sessions whenever you please and as you wish. When the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia fell apart 20 years ago, it was at a congress where a decent man said -- this is an unprincipled coalition against the Alliance of Communists of Serbia. Now I'm telling you, you're making a non-principle coalition against Serbia by trying to prevent the SRS from participating anywhere in any local, republican, provinceal, any kind of government. I heard you, Mrs. Dejanovic, read in "Politics" that you have entered a coalition with ideologically opposed parties to avoid being sucked by the SRS. Indeed, you should publish scientific work and send it across Europe, as no one in developed European democracies could possibly assume that ideologically opposing parties could create a government so as not to vacuum one another in that government. I've seen a lot of excuses for what you've been doing these last few days, but this is the most ridiculous thing I've ever seen. First, the SRS is no vacuum cleaner to vacuum dust around the house. Secondly, strong enough parties and coalitions preserve their identity, especially preserve it in coalitions respecting their programme and implementing their programme. And we, of course, will, when conditions are created that the National Assembly is starting to work, and I think the conditions will be created when we finally resolve whether there will be democracy in Belgrade or the forces of chaos known as the non-principle coalition of DS with others. Then when the Assembly starts to work, then you will come before the first exam, the exam is called the agreement that brought the Duke of Meridian to the bank, in which you will finally determine how much you care about Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija as part of Serbia, and you and the smaller coalition partner, which makes dances and parties whenever a minister's car comes into local self-government. So we expect the court to decide whether there is justice and law in Serbia, and if the court does not decide, we have learned these 20 years of developing democracy to decide for ourselves. So as you could, so will we, as the Socialists of the cordon have made you, now you will begin to make us. So let's see if Serbia can withstand a return to years where there has never been a democracy or if Serbia has finally gone through democracy. I only ask you to preserve your personal dignity because many of us here will be forgotten, and many will wish to be forgotten for what they did in Serbia. I'd like you as one lady, as a respected doctor and as a Kragujevacan, not to fall into the category of those who would like the people to forget them as soon as possible. You've taken a job that you're not up to personally. The work you are doing now will be rebelled by your personality at some point, Mrs Dejanović, and then, you yourself will know it from your profession, then you will be on a great test whether you can split up or not, whether you can function or not. As far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, we are still not obstructing the work of the National Assembly, this is what you, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples of the DS are doing. You have entered into your cars the other MPs who make up your majority, you create chaos in Serbia, you seduce the discipline of the spine in Serbia, you promote one man, Boris Tadic, into an uncircumcised master of Serbia, you will get it all over your head. We're ready to do business today, really ready, and you can do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1398	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1399	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament. I don't think we can go over everything that's been going on here in the Parliament for the last few days because ignoring reality doesn't lead us to solving problems and deblocking the Assembly. I think that ignoring reality will only complicate relationships, which are somehow brought to that level of complexity that we can't practically do our job. The opposition is not responsible for such a thing. This is the responsibility of the government, the ruling coalition, for such a thing you are responsible for, Madam President. You have scheduled this session by violating the Rules of Procedure and ignoring a proposal of 108 MPs, which we of the LDP disagree with, but cannot ignore their right to propose to parliament a resolution on Kosovo, which they have proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which you have not put on the agenda. That is why we lost one day of the Assembly and found, together with compromises, a solution to the problem that did not produce the opposition, which produced a non-functional ruling coalition. We have been losing here for two days because the mistakes made elsewhere in the Serbian Parliament are being charged, when the Belgrade City Assembly is being established. The LDP is not responsible for such a thing, the DS and SPS coalition are responsible for it. It is clear that such an important issue cannot be discussed, such as the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, without removing such major obstacles on the way from the government to the Assembly, which primarily relate to the situation in which the Belgrade City Assembly is located. The court's decision is expected, and we are clearly told at the consultations that MPs will call for their business rights and block parliament's work until it is clear what the court has decided on the lawsuits brought by DSS and the SRS to the District Court. You've brought us into this assembly now, and if we've already started the debate, then we in this assembly don't think we're going out, so we're going back in two hours, but we want to discuss a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. If you're ready for that kind of conflict with the MPs who oppose it, not because they don't want to discuss the agreement, but because they don't want to reconcile with the violation of the law that was committed elsewhere, then let's get into that debate, let's get rid of those relationships that are complicated in someone else's place. But this situation in which the opposition is being accused of blocking parliament is not true and is not true. We have now voted to change the agenda because the ruling coalition does not have a majority for such a thing. We did it because we want to discuss the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, not because we want to interrupt the Assembly again. We either have a congregation or we don't have a congregation, or there's a ruling majority or there isn't. Either you're Socialists in a coalition with DS in Belgrade or there's no coalition. But you can't sit on two chairs, and that's why you're bringing parliament into the blockade that we're in today, and DS has to make it clear and clear these complicated relationships. The SPS has knowingly entered a violation of the Law on the City Assembly to introduce us into the position in which we are now. Parliament cannot work unless a session of the Belgrade Assembly is organised on Monday, which will continue to build up the city's government. We cannot adopt a Stabilisation and Association Agreement because of the desire of the SPS to sit on two chairs. This must be cleared not in this assembly, according to this agenda, but within the ruling coalition. Mrs. Kolundjia, you didn't come to consult. We showed up at consultations at half-one, we were at consultations in 10, five times yesterday -- so there won't be this assembly, the way we want it to be, because you're not able to lead parliament the way Parliament is run. (President: Time. ) We do not agree with the SRS, but what they are doing today is the sole consequence of the inability and inefficientness of the ruling coalition and of the unregulated relations between coalition partners, which have complicated the establishment of the City Assembly, and have brought us here in a position to pay us now. This is not the responsibility of the LDP, and even less, we think that we are supporting a policy that is so incompetent, confusing and which is tripping in the first step, which is the first point of the agenda - ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Prime Minister Cvetkovic may be concerned about the ineffectiveness of parliament, but his government is responsible for the lost three days here in the assembly. Where are the MPs of the ruling coalition? They're gone. It's not the LDP, the SRS or the DSS, it's the sole incompetence of the ruling coalition. You, Mr. Djelic, have come here as a representative of the government, you should know that you do not have 126 MPs and that you cannot run this agenda without a majority in parliament. We'll vote for the deal, but for what's going on right now, we don't think we're supporting it, and we disagree. Thank you for these two minutes, and I'm not answering my business anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1400	Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please stick to the time, three minutes in the Rules of Procedure, so I don't turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to say in my three minutes what I intend to say, but please refuse my time to quote. I am also doing this for you, but primarily because of the citizens of Belgrade and for the citizens of Serbia, to show your duality, your dual arches, how you behave in one place, how it suits you to behave in the Serbian Parliament, and as you act in other situations, as in the Sitel municipality. Please, I am reading an official letter sent to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government by the President of the National Assembly of the municipality of Titel, Milorad Jovancevic, saying: "In addition to the memo, I am delivering you the minutes from the first constitutional session of the National Assembly of the municipality of Sitel, held on 11 July 2008, and the decisions taken at that session. The assembly majority of 14 committee members, the Assembly numbered 25 committees, the SRS, the SPS and the DSS held a session after a multi-hour obstruction of nine DS committee members. From 10:00 to 6:00 p.m., eight hours had been obstructed by nine DS council members at the National Assembly of the University of Sitel." Out of the O.R. A little bit. A little? Well, you'll get a chance to see what's enough. "The president of the titel municipality's Assembly and other bodies elected at the session (not the end of what you are doing) tried on July 14th 2008, Monday, to commit handovers, in which they were prevented. Take it easy. ) From Monday until today, Thursday, municipal officials from the previous assembly, along with unidentified citizens present in the building, have been disabling the handover of newly elected authorities. On July 17th, a culmination took place, with the former head of the DS municipality, Milivove Petrovic, disabling the work of all the services of the municipality of Sitel, as well as the services of the Tax Administration located in the building of the municipality of Sitel, by ordering that the parentheses be locked and not allowed anyone to enter. In such a flagrant violation of the law, the MUP also participates, as police officers participate in preventing handovers. Due to the situation, caused by former municipality president Milivova Petrovic and former Parliament Speaker Milan Nastasic, we demand urgent response from the authorities to prevent possible conflicts of greater proportions between citizens." Now, that's you from the yellow company. When it's a struggle for power, you're able to do anything that suits you. If it happens to someone else and if it insists on respecting the law, we in Belgrade exclusively insist on respecting the law, we want to prevent the electoral theft of Serbian citizens, because you are trying beyond the law, past the rules of procedure to form power in the Belgrade City Assembly, in order to continue robbing citizens of Belgrade. Now, we won't let you do that. You'll have to obey the law. We told you - until everything that the law insists on is done, we will not let you do this assembly. Do not deceive the citizens of Serbia -- as the opposition obstructs the work and God's opposition is not for all laws and proposals to be passed that would allow for a better life for Serbian citizens. Since 2001, you have deceived Serbian citizens with alleged reforms and what we have to do. That's why you sold out sugars for three euros, so you sold out Sartid for 21 million, so you sold out Serbia and you just want to finish the job again. We will not let you do this - to know that the Assembly will not work until everything that the law says about the Belgrade City Assembly is expelled.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1402	There's a word of Mrs. Radet's - advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1403	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, yesterday and last night, yellow dictator Boris Broz, Djelic and Cvetkovic said -- that the National Assembly, or MPs of the opposition, have been obstructing Serbian citizens. I would like them to tell us today who is obstructing the citizens of Serbia, who does not allow, above all, the citizens of Belgrade and other parts of Serbia to start living normally, to start working normally, to stop the construction of a bypass around Belgrade, which prevents bridges that are necessary in Belgrade, which prevents Serbian citizens from finally working, to finally start living normally, as any normal man and every normal government should afford their citizens. What are you offering us here? You're offering us to go beyond anything to discuss some agreement of yours that means nothing. You lie to citizens that this EU accession agreement is of no importance to the citizens of Serbia. It is important for you to adopt it as soon as possible, accept it, so as to accept Kosovo in the European Bank, and Kosovo in the IMF, and Kosovo passports, because we do not hear that you have called these days to react to everything your European friends tell you. You know that, you're in agreement with them, it's no news to you. This may be new to the citizens of Serbia, who naively believed that you would truly safeguard the integrity of the Serbian state. You are in a hurry because of this agreement, and you know it cannot be applied, because you are required to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. And you don't care what happens in The Hague tribunal, which killed 13 Serbs there, which the UN tribunal wants to kill Vojislav Seselj. Last night, you could hear, if you were watching, that the Hague prosecutor's office filed a motion for Vojislav Seselj to be re-imposed by a lawyer, a defense attorney. You don't care what it's completely contrary to all international acts and what it's the most cruel violation of human rights. Those in The Hague do so in despair, the prosecution in The Hague is desperate because Vojislav Seselj leads 36 to zero against The Hague tribunal. The Hague tribunal sees himself entangled as a chicken in the doghouse, all thanks to you, thanks to your mob prime minister, who asked Vojislav Seselj to be taken to The Hague. (President: Time. I'm done. He, according to Carla del Ponte, asked that Seselj never return and that is why The Hague tribunal is now trying to fulfill his wish to kill Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. You don't care what happens to any Serbian citizen. You are waiting to get hold of the privatisation of NIS, EPS, to fill your pockets, to document Serbia, and that is the only reason you are fighting for power in Belgrade, both in Serbia and in all other municipalities in Serbia, local self-government; you are doing nothing for the people, you are doing because of a thieving yellow company headed by dictator Boris Broz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1404	Mr. Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was last reported to the Rules of Procedure at 17.55 yesterday and I was supposed to go out and talk, but the president interrupted the session at 17.55, so I didn't get out. Let me remind you, gentlemen of the Democrats, in the 1990s, when a political party now in the coalition tried to take away your electoral will in Belgrade, and the short and the tail from all over Europe, the various Gonzales came... Mr. specimen, if you have anything to say, step out for the pay phone after me, so say it. This way, from where you're tossing and throwing, don't. They helped you, under suspicious circumstances, to preserve the so-called election results, so they had to make Lex specials, so that Belgrade could separate itself from other cities and municipalities to hand over power to you. Today, when it was obvious that the democratic enterprise did not have a majority, that the scrupulous coalition of carriages and ropes could not achieve the majority in Belgrade, you are trying in the harshest possible way to steal not the SRS, but the electoral will of the citizens of Belgrade. The reason is very simple. Twenty days after the coalition agreement was signed, the chimneys in the City Assembly began to smoke. All the papers that in any way proved your criminal activities were going to the oven. You dragged the trucks out of here with material that could point to your crimes in Belgrade. This ends in Belgrade, as you think, it won't. The SRS has the power to fight to preserve the will of the citizens. One more thing to say is to show the citizens of Serbia what the parliament looks like, and the government, and the president of Serbia and Serbia as a whole. Once upon a time in Turkish times, in the halls of the great viziers and the Sultan, there were people who were called evet efendi and their only job was... (President: Time. I've been using the other three minutes... When the Sultan says something to nod... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1406	Mrs. Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1407	Dear fellow Members of the People, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226, which give me the opportunity to address you and request a notice on all the questions necessary to perform the function of the MP. Why? Because these days, as a people's messenger, I meet people who ask the simplest question for a man, do we have a state? Why does the people ask that? As long as the people are written or illiterate, they know what the Constitution is, they know what its rights are, they know what the state should be and what it can expect from that state. So we who have learned this know that the state is a territory, that the state is a people and that the state must have the elements of a force to be in full capacity. Do we know what our territory is? Obviously, we don't know, because it's what we trade with. Do we have security in that country, that she will stand behind us and protect us at any time? They say citizens, we don't. Here, they're reading these days headlines about the extradition of this unfortunate young man, Miladin Kovacevic, and they say, "Is it possible that at a moment, the U.S. consul was pulled from America because he gave a passport in one direction to his citizen, who came to his territory, there in the embassy, requested a passport and this one was obliged to give it to him?" We're still talking about the extradition of one of our citizens because he was involved in some street fight. If we are and therefore begin to extradite our citizens, don't be surprised if our citizens say - we will no longer be citizens of this country, we will be citizens of China, or Russia, or Bangladesh or I don't know what, we have an orderly system there, we have a president of the Republic who takes care of his country and his people. I've set this example because it's the freshest, but since 2000 you've been constantly trading in human souls and handing people over to The Hague tribunal, not wondering what's going on there. While the village burns, and I tell you that the state is on fire, the grandmother is really combing. We beat ourselves up here by kidnapping power. You take power, you don't give power. (President: Time. I'll be right there. I know that no one in the political pragmatism gives power on the plate. The government is mostly being kidnapped. But how? The way you took power by burning down the National Assembly, it's impossible to expect it from the SRS. But in a legitimate way like this, yes. So I remind you and wonder, first of all, to the media, then to you politicians who are representatives of the people, is it possible that no one is interested in what happens after six years with Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal? Do you realize that they are the easiest to kill him again, like they killed Slobodan Milosevic? Are you going to experience another such humiliation or is someone in this country going to direct something to the international community, the UN, the Hague tribunal. Is someone gonna answer? Will some public campaign be conducted, at least among intellectuals and MPs, as individuals, who will say, "Aman's people, enough, we don't let you kill our citizens anymore." (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Just because they're in custody doesn't mean they're guilty, even if they're guilty... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1408	Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, Advertises the Rules of Procedure, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1409	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Parliament suspended yesterday, as DS MPs and the coalition leading Serbia into further destruction did not allow me to replicate the president of the parliamentary group, Mrs Nadi Kolundziji. This is enough talking about you and the state you are in, the confusion, the chaos that you are leading all the way to Serbia and the conditions of really bringing Serbia into dictatorship through Serbian President Boris Tadic, who is only a mere instrument in the hands of those who have put this government together, who have been robbing Serbian citizens for eight years, have been taking over Kosovo and Metohija, destroying everything that we Serbs have been fighting for for centuries. Seventeen years of our suffering, which under NATO bombs, sanctions, the occupation of Serbian countries, by the occupation of Dossovna power, was not enough for you to reason and see where we are today as a state and as a people. From here, from the Serbian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, he went on one television with a national frequency, with some associates, these officials who could not sit here, and last night he said something, and one of the professional journalists who is editor of our "Great Serbia", Mrs Elena Christmas-Talian, and I commented today. He said incredible nonsense. I don't know how to call such a statement by the Deputy Prime Minister. He says, then they are blocking and obstructing Serbia, imagine, we are doing it – your incompetence, your dictatorship, your abduction of power in Belgrade, your pressure and your Minister Milan Markovic on local self-government where Serbian radicals exercise power – and then Djelic says, thus trying to overcome the electoral will of citizens. Is that what Serbian radicals do, or are you doing it? Threats, blackmail. You're saying that the Ruma boardman went on vacation by accident, that only in Bruce happens by accident, that the pressures on individual councilors in Vranjska Banja are amazing, that you are also trying where legal and legitimate authority is established, such as Kraljeno or Trstenik, or other cities in Serbia, where we are indeed serving for example every mayor, deputy mayor, president of the municipal parliament, every Serbian radical and every one of our coalition partners. Madam President, this just can't go on like this. Our strength is extremely great and we, as authentic representatives of the Serbian people and national minorities, do not want Serbia, the most legislative body, to be demoted in this way. Be assured that there are indeed many of us, that we represent first those two million and 200,000 people who voted for Tomislav Nikolic, and then a huge force that showed confidence in our list, that we will not give up on it. As much as you're osions as you are, if you're boastful, I don't know what measures to take, what way to deal with us, can't go like this. You had to learn 20-year-old multi-party lessons in Serbia and know that when such a great power is in parliament, which, without respecting the will of the citizens, is put into a position to be an opposition, not to exercise power, then you have to be prepared for anything. That you can formally have such a majority (President: Time). ), here I am finishing up, even for the next year, two or three, but there will be no session of the National Assembly. It's not because you're taking power, it's not because you know the Hague tribunal is about to kill our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, because you're not breaking all the standards of the Constitution, which you allegedly voted for, and because the ministers and the prime minister himself, who came to the Assembly yesterday, don't realize that they need to get a message out of all of this. We don't want to play the opposition, as some do here, putting in cards for yours, Mr. Jovanovic... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1410	Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1411	Thank you. Please don't count me this ten-second approach to the pay phone. I can understand that something miraculous happened in Serbia, that one unnatural coalition, which practically issued the expectations of the citizens after the elections, had gathered a conglomerate of everything and everything that is politically contrary to each other, but were found around one idea of leadership, which is to do an act that is almost equal to national betrayal when it comes to ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Because he means implicit recognition of the kidnapping of the works of our territory and following the text so-called. A resolution on the continuity of state policy regarding Kosovo and Metohija, which I would like to call a discount act and state policy, because it has nothing to do with this policy. It's something that you publically demonstrate here, it's something that citizens will appreciate, the same ones who voted for all of us and who will certainly have a few words to say about it tomorrow. What you're doing in the Republic and trying to do the same at other levels of government. That's what you dared to do in the city of Belgrade. We can understand that. We understand what you're doing. It's very hard to accept that what you're about to do, betraying those people who voted for us all, doing it by breaking the Constitution and the law. It's something you can't accept. I say, to understand the political intention we can, Serbia is not the only country. There are these flyovers and these electoral frauds, post-election frauds and other countries. What you're about to do, what you intend to do, that in Belgrade you have a coalition of the SPS, DS and its satellites, with the LDP that will minority support you, that's a political intention. You can take him out, that's no problem. The problem's second level, I explained it a little bit. However, it is impossible to accept that you are doing so in a way that violates the Constitution and the law, and the Rules of Procedure of the City Assembly. It's something we can never agree on, and anyone responsible for politics in Serbia will say, well, it's okay, there's no job done. Worst of all, you didn't even finish the job, but you intended, despite the obvious fact that the constitutional session of the Belgrade City Assembly cannot continue, that session by force continues against the law and that you choose the president of the City Assembly, regardless of all the warnings that are being heard. Today, we should wait for the court's decision, which we are fundamentally afraid will be a political decision. That's what the problem is in this country. Prove to us that's not the case. Boris Tadic said he would use all the funds, in one of his first talks after the elections, to (President: time). ..... I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm does not form an SRS, DSS and SPS coalition, and it is obvious that all these funds are operational. Please, to take care of it, political intent is one thing, and illegality and dissuasion is something else entirely. We won't, and this ends, use too much of the right to report for word by the Rules of Procedure, because we don't think it's even the right answer to this whole thing, but we certainly respect those who think it is and in this way I want to make an effort, and above all, the SRS, to get this thing clean together with us, to support it to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1412	The word is Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I suggest that, in accordance with Article 58 paragraph 1 - interruption or attitude 2 - pause, take a break in the work of the Assembly, until the moment it can begin to work normally. Take the consultations, let this rshomoniada be completed around the Belgrade City Assembly. For three days, we've been hostages to the absence of the will to make this Parliament work. It doesn't have to be people who have nothing to do with the problem of being hostages. Madam President, because of your presidency, or because of your actions against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, it has been turned into anarchy, into chaos, into a theater of absurdity. What are we doing here? What message do we broadcast to Serbian citizens? Our parliamentary group decided to provide a parliamentary majority, not for the sake of the majority, but for the interests of Serbia and its citizens, because of the struggle for European and democratic Serbia, which we started in the 1990s, on behalf of not all those who spent a decade on mythins, squares, streets, in front of cordons, pendejos, wanting a more beautiful, free, democratic and European Serbia. You're ignoring it. Madam President, I know, and you've demonstrated it a dozen times, when Cedomir Jovanovic spoke, you've been laughing all along. That's when you started seducing discipline, hurting the Rules of Procedure and her advertising took three minutes. You allowed people to speak 10 or 12 minutes for violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, ignore the rights to maintain order, Article 103, to give notice of offensive words, to bring forth facts from the private life of individuals. You didn't give anyone a warning, you didn't take anyone away, and you had a lot of business opportunities to do that. Why? You respect party discipline, but intimately you belong to that old Socialist Party of Serbia Corps. You proved it many times yesterday. The story of reformed socialists, I don't think there's anything to do with your character.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1414	Mr. Branko Ruzic answered his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1415	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, 20 minutes ago I advertised and, wanting to use my right to replicate, signaled to you at the chair table. But, of course, at this moment when we are facing important laws for the state of Serbia, those who want to do in this House what is their legitimate right, fighting for their political rights, I see an excuse not to get a spot word and the right to replicate immediately. The replica refers to the unknowns of the SPS responsibility for what is happening in Belgrade. I believe that the kind of pressure that is being put here in court, in terms of making a decision on the lawsuit of political parties that had the right to do so, may be legitimate for some, but I would like to ask you to explain to me what the jurisdiction of this house is in relation to the lawsuit they brought to the District Court. Also, as far as the SPS, PUPS and JS parliamentary groups are concerned, Mr. Aleksandar Antic has just done the opposite there. He returned the course of the session to that defined procedure and returned the agenda to that content of the agenda which could only be when originally called and sent. I don't think this really is the place where we should discuss it. Is there an obstruction of parliament's work at the time when very important laws are to be passed for the state of Serbia, not only ratification of the SAA, but also ratification of the agreement between the Russian Federation government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a resolution on the continuity of state policy at KIM? Whether obstruction is done, on whose side, it is not on you or on us from the ruling majority to decide. I think the public of Serbia will see it quite well, and let it serve you the honor of what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1416	I thank you and apologize, I didn't realize you wanted a replica, so I didn't give you a word earlier. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1417	We'll see what it's worth to whom we'll see very soon, young colleague. Just to remind you, and it's not mine to remember what the president of your political party is saying, but you should know it. In the campaign for these elections, the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia said in the stands: "This agreement is the Democratic Party's party agreement and we will undo it as soon as the elections are over." When it became a very important document in your ideology, I don't know. That's what it says about what someone should do for honor. So, don't accuse us of preventing an agreement, that's what you're stopping. You are preventing Serbia from being turned into a country, I could not recognize it, perhaps from the time of Milan Obrenovic. About, after that, since the May coup, well and the Objavena, we haven't had such an unsettled country, a country where one man was the master of everything, and even your ideologies, because in two months from the DS party agreement you're convinced that it's something Serbia needs and that there's no need to be obstructions. Have you read that agreement? Are you going to discuss it at all? You won't, you haven't even read it, it's read by someone who tells you it's good. That agreement will, in fact, expose your ideology. I'm still not going into a dispute with you, I'm going into a dispute with that part of your ideology that says "Kosovo is Serbia". We'll see if Kosovo is Serbia for you when we come to that agreement and when it comes to our amendment. Any one of you who does not want to accept the amendment, in which in the Ratification Act we claim what Kosovo is, each of you admits that KIM is not an integral part of Serbia. Don't lecture us, you've been in love with the government for too long since the DOS came to power. You've been letting us take all their hits for too long. Nothing, where they beat us, you add some whip, just so they don't listen too much to how they do it with the police and the courts who put MPs in jail. I don't think you're going to learn that from them. It wasn't a good thing, it took revenge on them afterwards. So, you let us do our job, you do yours. Your job is to secure the quorum here, so the session can begin, not to ask the LDP quorum, because it's low. It's not good for the LDP to give them quorum, and then it warns them that they didn't have quorum. They didn't have any, and there shouldn't be any sessions. You gave them quorum, don't criticize them anymore, you're involved in something. Let me get this straight. Are you aware, gentlemen of the Socialists, of what's going on in Serbia, and do you care just because you're not on target? Is democracy, as far as you're concerned, only if you're in power and then you can do whatever you want with the opposition? Now if you were on this side, you'd be more persistent than us after this pay phone. It's just that -- whether you're a letter or a head, it's decided how you're going to behave in the congregation. Here we should all think the same thing, about the Constitution, about the law, about the Rules of Procedure, about democracy and about the right of citizens to choose power, and about the right of citizens to get power after the elections. And not to wait two or three months until the pressures and blackmails start, first on your party to change the attitude, and then your party to pass on that pressure. You think that's good? You think it's normal, that it's moral for a voter to go to the polls and not know what his party will do after the election? You think that's good for Serbia? It's not good for Serbia. Here's your authority, rule, do whatever you want, but don't act like an opposition in the election. You've been ruling for eight years, you promise us only after eight years that you'll start working. To tell you the truth, I would use all the resources to stop you from coming to power, because the minister only said 15 days ago -- if we don't sell something big right now, we're going to lose our budget. Hey, guys, if you don't sell something big?- I'm sorry. Which he didn't say -- if we don't do something big, if we don't build something big, if we don't achieve something big, but if we don't sell something big. Are you in a hurry to sell what else we have? What do we do after? Who was building this? You? Neither do you, nor I. Part of me, I have a lot of internships, and you don't have that much. They built our fathers, our grandfathers. A gang came in, gathered Zoran Djindjic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1418	Break 10 minutes. [[After break – 14.10]] The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Rule 225. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today is the tenth anniversary of the most massive abduction of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. On July 18th 1998, Cypriot terrorists kidnapped more than 50 Serb civilians in the Orahovac municipality alone. The Serbs from Orahovac kidnapped their neighbours, Shipari, with whom they then lived in good neighbourly relations. Only in the village of Retimlje, 16 men were abducted on July 18th, including 14 members of the Kostic family. They were abducted, as I said, by their first neighbors, in the evening they surrounded their houses, and then in the morning they set up an ultimatum to surrender or they would be killed. They gave them an honorable word, an anger, that they'd spare their lives, that they wouldn't torture them, they'd just transfer them to another territory. The unfortunate people, unfortunately, believed the word of their neighbors. It cost them their lives and their families their eternal suffering. Of the 14 Kostićs who were kidnapped that day, eight were single young men. Two of them were boys, third grade students. On that day, Shipatarian terrorists took two sons and five grandchildren, Nikola Kostic, to their death. For the sake of time, in order not to exceed the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, I will now quote what the Serbian Liberation said about the case from the Palace on 4 April 2001. "The first of Niko's son, Stike, were kidnapped by the Cypriot villains by both sons, Miodrag and Svetislav. Svetislav was not married, and Miodrag's wife, Vesna, remained with two underage children, five-year-old son Veljko and three-year-old daughter Milena. The second son of Nikol Stanoi and his wife, Kosari Šiptari, were kidnapped by the only son of Happy. Lucky wasn't married. Lucky's death means that the branch of the Kostic family tree is condemned to die. The third son of Niko's son, Angelko, the 15th victim Kostic, was killed on the night of July 18th, just a few hours before his 20-year-old son Zivko died. The terrorists didn't spare Nicole's fourth son, Mladen. They kidnapped him and his youngest son Nebojsa, a third-grade high school student in Djakovica. Niko's brother, Uncle Bozidar, was kidnapped on July 18th by both sons, Todor and Lazarus. Todor's daughter, Angela's father, didn't even remember. The last time she saw him was when she was 11 months old. Todor's younger son wasn't married. Dimitrije Kostic was kidnapped along with both his son, Vjekoslava and Miroljub. Two underage male children, eight-year-old Dušan and one-year-old Nikola, remained behind Vjekoslav. The other son of Dimitri wasn't married. The accident that Retimlje blacked out did not pass Dimitri's nephew Dragoljub, and he was kidnapped by both sons, Saska and Yugoslavia. They weren't married. Along with Kostici, two of their neighbours, Nikolic, Rajko and his oldest son, Cvetko, were taken to death. Cvetko was a second-grade student at a technical school. On the same day, four members of the Bozanic family, Bozidar, his son Novac, and Bozidar's brother, Uncle Mladen, and Mladen's son, Nemanja, were abducted in nearby Ompunja, near Orahovac. He was 16 years old, and he was a high school student. On that morning, apart from four Bozinić, the Shiptari of Ompuna kidnapped five other men's heads from that village: the brothers of Spasan and Miodrag Burdzic, their cousin Milutin, Sreko Simic and Spasen Banzic. Out of the nine kidnapped from Omonasha, only two were military bonds, and two were walking on crutches. The oldest of them, Milutin Burdzic, was 87 years old." For ten full years, the survivors of Kostici, Bozanici, Banzic, mostly women and children, were scattered in refugee shelters, from Prokuplje to Belgrade, in vain trying to find their loved ones. They no longer live in the hope of being welcomed alive, but hope to be met dead. What has the Serbian state done to help find Kostic, Bozinic and the other 500 Serbs who have disappeared in Kosovo and Metohija? She didn't do anything. I'll only remind you of one piece of information. After the takeover by the DOS in Serbian prisons, there were 1,800 members of the Kosovo Liberation Army. There were certainly many innocent people among them, but there were also criminals who burned Serb civilians in Klecka and Glodjani. All of them are released without a single condition. At least they could have asked for at least one of the 2,000 kidnapped Serbs to be found. To finish, the biggest accident that could happen to one family is the loss of one's loved ones. A bigger accident than that is only when you can't bury the loved one you lost, because you don't know where his remains are. In order to perhaps understand best the misfortune that has hit these people, I will finally quote the words I heard from Jelica Colic of the New Village of Kupres, who since 10 April 1993 has been searching for his son Dusan, who was abducted by Naser Oric. She said to me, "Every day I pray to God to wait for me to bury my son, to bring him to me dead, I would rejoice as if they had brought him to me alive." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1421	The MP pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Articles 225 and 226, requesting notices, and I ask the National Assembly to submit a stenogram of the discussion of the MP to the relevant ministries, with a request for information and that the competent ministries, within the time limit prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, be turned to both the People's Parliament and the National Assembly. The word is made by MP Zoran Mašić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. After him, the violation of the Rules of Procedure was pointed out by MP Ivan Andric. Is MP Zoran Mašić in the O.R.? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1422	Articles 27, 103, 104, 105. It's hard for me to tell you, Mrs. Comic, since I called while the president of the Assembly was here because she's committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, she's just done a violation of the Rules of Procedure by not attending the session. There is no representative of the motionor at the session. The opposition's MPs, 80 of them have come forward to speak. Excuse me, do you want to explain to us what this is all about and what we're doing in this room on the third day in a row? Why didn't we start work today at 10.00 hours like you invited us? Why didn't we start work on Wednesday at 2:00 p.m. yesterday at 10.00 p.m.? It's just amazing. What's our question, is there a majority or not? How can the opposition be responsible if the position has not taken responsibility to lead this parliament? That responsibility was assumed by Miss Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Instead of leading parliament, there is obviously a problem. The problem has now solved most by ignoring the problem and waiting for it to go away. The Deputy Prime Minister, apparently knowing that, left the session, left. The Madam President is bored, she makes statements in front of the O.R. or I don't know where, what she's doing right now, and we MPs are doomed to sit around and wait for when eventually the MPs of the SRS will get tired. You know what, the ruling majority asked us to help them, and that's also a replica to Mr. Nikolic. We did not support the ruling majority, we gave the quorum to discuss what LDP is fighting for from its establishment and what it thinks may be the most important thing for Serbia right now, it is for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We provided that quorum on Wednesday, it's Friday, we didn't move beyond the agenda. The ruling majority, through the president of the National Assembly, are ignoring that there is a problem here and is dealing with lawmakers through statements in the media. Do you think that'll solve the problem? Will someone take responsibility? The President of the Assembly is not an armored car, security and a paid cell phone. It's a responsibility for this home to work. In this assembly are MPs or part of MPs who think they have been denied some right. This is the only place where the government and the opposition meet in the country. Of course the opposition's MPs will react if they think their rights are denied. What else has to happen to us to realize that they think they have some problem that needs to be solved? Once again, we invite you to use your right under Article 98 - president of the National Assembly to interrupt the work of the National Assembly and, in other cases, if the National Assembly concludes it; or attitude 1. Take responsibility, that's what you asked for. I want you to determine what the problem is and solve it anyway. Since we've already given the quorum and instead of your MPs who went to the sea stayed here because we think this is an important thing, let us then be able to discuss it and finally vote for the agreement. Don't make us sit around and see all of Serbia watching us sit around waiting for the SRS to get tired. Or, if that's a strategy, tell us, and we'll go home and wait for them to get tired, so when they get tired, we'll come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1423	The replacements of the National Assembly are not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and are taking place evenly with all the vice presidents, as work is during the day for the President of the Assembly and in the hall and outside the hall, so that what you pointed out is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The injuries of the Rules of Procedure, which you pointed out, which concern the quorum, all MPs are obliged to give the quorum, as they are obliged and to identify themselves with their cards when entering the hall, Article 120. National MP Tomislav Nikolic throws out the bench -- a member of the Rules of Procedure. Article 120. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are required to register in the electronic voting system. Those rules serve all of us. Do you want to put the vote to highlight your breach of the Rules of Procedure? National MP Ivan Andric. No, I don't. The word has the People's MP Slobodan Maras, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, followed by MP Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1424	Like my predecessor, I'm advertising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 98 and 100. Please, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, Madam Vice President, stop the time, as I will quote both members, or some views. Article 98 says the president of the National Assembly or of the one replacing him may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. The President of the National Assembly shall interrupt the work of the National Assembly in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. A member of the 100 - nation MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly, gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. The MP shall indicate which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his opinion, is injure, that it quotes and explains what the injury consists of, by being able to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. The president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. Please give me back my time, if it's not a problem, since I've quoted it, in accordance with Article 100(2). So if I quote infringements of the Rules of Procedure, or positions in the Rules of Procedure that are injured, you are obliged to give me back my time, or allow me to speak for three minutes. Like my predecessor Ivan Andric, I must say that I wanted first of all to address the President of the Assembly. The president of the assembly, however, has already mentioned this several times, which she said would be the same MPs of the position and opposition, almost every day making the difference between the MPs of the position and the opposition. The president of the assembly has not learned the Rules of Procedure, has next to him a secretary who should tell her that he has a priority in breach of the Rules of Procedure, not a replica. She just demonstrated her ignorance. The assembly president makes the difference between MPs and allowing MPs from certain political parties to speak for six or seven minutes. Yesterday, we were witnessing that a colleague from a single parliamentary group spoke 17 minutes in his three statements by the Rules of Procedure, but the moment LDP President, LDP deputy group head Cedomir Jovanovic, spoke today, she warned him during the time. We think it's extremely incorrect. Unfortunately, she did not understand the point of what the president of our parliamentary group was saying, which is that we were ready and we are still ready to help you solve this problem. We gave our votes, i.e. we put in cards, gave the quorum that we can work on, to adopt one of the most important laws in our way, as well as other ratifications, as well as the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Russia, for which we will give our opinion when it comes to order, as well as on Kosovo, where our party president tabled on behalf of the parliamentary group a resolution, where we have a different opinion from you, we want all these questions to come to order. With this attitude of yours, we will never solve these problems, for the simple reason that problems are only solved by dealing with them. You pretend that these problems do not exist, you allow the opposition to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and after that, the opposition is accused of obstructing the Assembly. Unfortunately, I think the essence of the obstruction is primarily in the work of the President of the Assembly, who does not do his job in the right way and I hope that Mrs Dejanovic will be in the O.R. soon, and then we will be able to say it directly to her.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1425	Highlighting the infringements of the Rules of Procedure by the Members of Parliament, Articles 98 and 27, 104, 105 and 103. There is no injury in Article 98, because during the session, there has been a consultation, and as far as sitting and giving quorum, I refer the MPs to Article 120, paragraph 1 - MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the MP’s unit, i.e. to check out when leaving the hall. Article 222 paragraph 1 - People's MP, who is on permanent duty in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum, as well as during the session. All those who respected members 222 and 120, MP Vuceta Toskovic throws out the bench that I didn't understand, throwing out the bench is the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I ask that we all respect the Rules of Procedure together. The National MP, vice president of the Assembly, is throwing whether or not they will be fired by those who have not inserted the cards. On the obligation I read the first position of Article 222, since the MP explained why an MP gave the quorum, it is an obligation under Article 222. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has been made by MP Jadranko Vukovic, a National MP, Momir Markovic, points out the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, before Article 226. I ask the Rules of Procedure a question to the competent state institutions, and I will read you parts of the statement by the senior DOS official, whose name I cannot tell you, because man will be a potential witness to the defence in the process before The Hague tribunal against Dr Vojislav Seselj. Please just be careful, I won't be putting this remark on Article 226 for long. "I made concrete statements to the UN tribunal's investigators, with the firm promise of then-Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic that he would urinate with the then prosecutor, Mrs Carla del Ponte, that I would not continue to appear as a witness in this case and that I would certainly not go to The Hague. On that occasion, from now on the deceased, Zoran Djindjic was explicitly suggested that Seselja was not falsely accused, but to see me discredit him in every way as a political opponent. "That's just part of it. Another part of his statement. "I once again state that my testimony was in fact forced, because I could not refuse the order of Zoran Djindjic then to testify, and if I still have to testify then I will only give a statement about my direct findings, which I can go to favour the accused Dr Vojislav Seselj rather than the Hague prosecutor's office. I have no knowledge whatsoever that Seselj has committed crimes in any way or conspired anyone to commit these crimes, which I have clearly stated in my statement to the prosecution and in favour of his defense. "This is just a part of the statement on two sides, I repeat, by a senior DOS official whose name I cannot tell you, but you will testify when the defense of Dr. Seselj comes at the end of this year, probably see, as well as other details. Why did I read this to you? Because I want to ask the state of Serbia and its institutions -- why don't they protect the fundamental human rights of Dr. Seselj, as a citizen of Serbia? Because one of the fundamental human rights is the right to defend against institutions, both domestic and foreign. The right to defend means that he himself decides who will and will defend him, not to impose against his will as a defender. By imposing the defenders, contrary to his will, will lead to Dr Vojislav Seselj's intention to strike again to the death, as the Honorable counterpart, Mrs Radet, the UN tribunal intends to grant Professor Dr Seselj the right to defend himself again, and I would say the right to live, so that it is a renegotiation of the right to Dr Seselj to defend himself the evidence of the goal set by Zoran Djindjic, and what Carla del Ponte in his book clearly confirms, which is that he strikes hunger to death, because it is obvious that The Hague tribunal cannot otherwise defeat Professor Seselj, rather than physically kill him, and therefore force him to strike hunger. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point out this to you because we, members of the team of Dr. Seselj, led by Mr. Nikolic, have serious indications that this will happen to the citizens of Serbia, our sympathisers and all the citizens of Serbia from this pay phone, that we are on alert and that they will be timely informed of the order of our actions, which there is no need for me to present behind this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1427	I ask the Service of the National Assembly, since MP Vukovic Jadranko pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226, that a stenogram of his discussions should be forwarded to the Ministry of Justice and delivered to the People's Parliament and to the National Assembly within a business period. The word has the People's MP Momir Markovic, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and after that, Paja Momcilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as soon as Parliament Vice-President Mrs. Comic, gets the presidency's seat, immediately tries to discipline SRS MPs, opposition MPs, and, above all, SRS MPs. He reads to us Article 220, under which MPs are obliged to use only their own MP card, that it is an abuse, that it is a crime to use other people's cards. Madam Chairman, may I remind you that you are directly responsible for that vote from Bodrum, when the parliamentary card was here, and spare, because Mrs Neda Arneric took hers when she left. Therefore, do not try to discipline the MPs of the SRS, you will not succeed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to continue where the president interrupted me, because I intended to make a parallel between the current government and the government in the time of Turkey, or the Ottoman Empire. So in the palaces of the Sultan and the great viziers sat people who were called ephenda evet. As the Sultan or minister said something, evet efendi had an obligation to say - evet, which would say so. Our so-calleds, whose sultans are in the EU, whose sultans are in America, whose sultans are Solana, Olli Rehn, etc., have an obligation, because they can't tell us from there, that here they repeat what they said and that they finally say - that's right. Mr. Tsavjevic, who will soon, if the need to call on the Rules of Procedure ceases to apply and move to work, interprets the Stabilisation and Association Act, belongs to a parliamentary group whose boss, otherwise Mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, is directly responsible for the departure of Vojislav Seselj, neither guilty nor debtor, to The Hague. The Mafia prosecutor, Carly del Ponte, was unequivocally told, and she wrote in the book - take Seselj to The Hague and don't return him to us. Now, although there is neither Mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic nor mob prosecutor Carla del Ponte, the game continues, with a dangerous opportunity to bring an end. In fact, yesterday, the UN tribunal's prosecution asked the Search Council to allow 35,000 words, to explain with 35,000 words why Vojislav Seselj needed to be denied the fundamental human right and to prohibit him from defending himself, to bring in a lawyer, who is primarily a merchant, and not a lawyer, to destroy the defence of Dr Vojislav Seselj and to have Dr Vojislav Seselj sentenced to a long-standing time sentence. The trial in which Dr. Vojislav Seselj himself defends himself clearly shows that the indictment is false, that she was written here by ignorant people and that, if he was allowed to continue defending himself, Dr. Vojislav Seselj would literally break the indictment into paraparagus. Of the 36 witnesses, no evidence could give. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore Serbian citizens, one of Serbia's most subtle heads can start killing tomorrow in The Hague, and the yellow company, this coalition planted wrongly and concluded with a stake and rope, will continue to speak and pass here absolutely unnecessary, useless and unusable laws. I warn the nation that the nation will lose another Serb, another honorable, honest and honest man, if this abuse of rights, justice and justice and international law is permitted...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1429	Time. I'd like to remind you of the time elapsed in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Momir Markovic: Business. [[Disabled microphone.]] I ask the MP to return to his post and seek word for injury to the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately... (The boy's emissary drinks the water behind the pay phone.) ) The approach of speakers to drink water is understood, not to require permission from the chairman, MP Momchilov, of course. National MP Momir Markovic did not point out any violations of the Rules of Procedure and thus, using the right to seek word for injury to the Rules of Procedure, practically abused the Rules of Procedure. If there were strict application of the Rules of Procedure, there would be penalties under the Rules of Procedure for the Abuse and Violation of Rules of Procedure, such as erasure from the stenograms of discussions of Members who appear for the word, they get the word, and they are not present in the hall by electronic registration system. But in the hope that we mean that the Assembly is not only a strict application of the Rules of Procedure, but is our joint work, then I am sorry. National MP Veroljub Arsic throws out the bench to talk, explaining to MP Momir Markovic, for more than five minutes. It is my duty because MP Momir Markovic was unable to use the Rules of Procedure and to say which member of the Rules of Procedure was violated and injured, so that I could give him an explanation within a short period of time. National MP Paja Momcilov pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1430	Someone's telling me to register. See if I'm registered. You need to see it first, then say it. Please don't count this on me in time. Namely, I'm advertising art. 103th and 104th of this Rules of Procedure. A lot of people did it before me, and a man would say there might be no need. But we've been here all week, here's Friday, the end of the week, we don't get to work on the agenda points. God, we're working in an atmosphere that reminds us of the fair. That is why I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I demand that this Parliament, however, be treated in a certain way and that it can begin to work normally as it would work. We are, you see, witnesses today to accuse the opposition of obstructing this House. That's absolutely not true. First, this is where parliament is obstructed by the majority of parliaments who have no quorum, but rather the LDP to secure a quorum in the situation where it is necessary, and you always need it this week. Two, it was advertised by SRS MPs, by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, that it was not our legal resolution, which was offered to this parliament for discussion, placed on the agenda and that was why we could not begin with normal work. Next, Mr. Todorovic came out and here read you a drastic violation of the legal rules in an attempt to form, right, the Belgrade City Assembly. Someone said it's not a place here. Mr. Collar, this is the most legislative body. If there's no law here, I don't know where else to go. You may think that in that decrepit court of the Constitution, which rejects one representation of the SRS, it is reportedly late to arrive, and the law has been broken and further broken, my God, nothing. In such a situation, we live and live with problems -- which Serbian radicals are now seeking to protect parliamentary democracy. We don't want the parliament and the judicial authority to be just the legitimacy of the government's decisions. We don't want the puppet government, we know why the puppet is, the tycoons formed it in Schiller along with the foreign ambassadors, this is where it demonstrates what it demonstrates. We don't want to have an unwise Prime Minister who's a puppet in Boris Tadic's hands. We point out that in one grueling way parliamentary democracy is introduced into the presidential system, but in totalitarian, what evidence and what a colleague from these benches said -- that this Mr. President, who is the party president, has allowed himself to be president of the Infrastructure Council, which is a disgrace and a disgrace. Therefore, I end up and apologize for breaking the length of the exercise of the work of the Rules of Procedure, Serbian radicals defend parliamentary democracy when they go out and speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1431	People's MP who called for injuries. 103 and 104, does he want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure. After him, the MP is Ognjen Mihailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1432	Mrs. Komic, it's a good thing you, with great experience, took over the presidency. Since you're honored by tolerance, you'll be in the light of my advertising rules of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, it's basically Article 226, but it's notifying. So, the need to inform the National Assembly of something that is necessary for the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution, to perform its function. But there are several other members who have been injured, and the order, and the member who refers to the emergency session and the emergency session. Because it's really unacceptable for a gentleman who's earned $11 million, not guilty, not in the O.R., and then we're practically talking here without a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who could hear what's really going on and what's the problem with the functioning of the National Assembly. Now I'd like to return to Article 226. Mrs. Comic, I think that... What's the matter with you? Do you have any problems? Marash, is it registered? Yes, it is. So your remark is dismissed. Let's move on. Mrs. Komic, it is my fault that Mr. Batic is not in the O.R. and that he is not Mr. Velja Ilic. This is one-tenth, Ostojić, of a criminal report filed against Mladjan Dinkic. KTR 806/06 was introduced in 2006. Of course, this is an official secret and confidential, as proposed by the applicant. Now, this is not a joke, this is a very serious thing. So, this is one-tenth of the file, which the applicant of the criminal report felt was necessary to reason with the republican public prosecutor and to initiate proceedings against Mladjan Dinkic. But there was a big problem here. All criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic have been filed by natural persons, and the prosecution sleeps and prevents private persons, natural persons from being subsidiary prosecutors in the event of the rejection of such criminal charges. And that's how someone protects himself -- that he's supposed to be the minister, that he's the vice president, that he's the bright one, that he dresses, that he knocks down governments, and he finishes his jobs. Of course, it does not occur to me to point out all the harmful consequences of such a phenomenon in our political life, but the next time I report to you, I will give you the record from the Youth Dinkic hearing, as I have heard him in court and he has confessed to everything, how he suffers physical pains, how he suffers mental suffering, etc. This is about coalition action. We have Mr. Banana here. He should be the director of the Nis Construction Directorate again, and in all possible ways he will join the coalition with Bosca Ristic, who escaped because he knows I've come. That's why he ran away. That empty computer of documentation about something that's been going on for several years, this one threatens journalists, specifically threatened Todorovic with the formation of that government in Nis, which is about to associate with what's going on in Belgrade. (President: Four minutes. Thank you, I'm moving. Let me re-apply. I have a follow-up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1433	The MP pointed out the breach, i.e. the request for Article 226 and I ask that the stenogram of his discussion be forwarded to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, and if there are any questions to which the ministries may answer, that the reply be delivered to the MP and to the National Assembly within a business period of time. The word has been made by the MP Firenjon Mihailovic. After that, MP Milan Avramovic. The MP is not satisfied with the answer. On Article 226, you cannot be satisfied or dissatisfied until you have received a reply from the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Justice. The word has been made by the MP Fired Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1434	I am sorry that Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is not here because my remarks concern her work in the Assembly. I have reported a violation of Article 100, which it has been destroying since the first day of its harmful work in this congregation. I'll quote this article, and you know I can't get it into these three minutes that I'm allowed to do. In article 100, the MP who wants to talk about the breach of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the Assembly gives the word immediately after the previous speaker has been delivered; the MP is obliged to state which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his view, is injured, that he quotes and explains what the injury consists of, which can speak for the longest three minutes, which does not account for the time needed to quote. What I believe is that Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is wrong - the president of the National Assembly is obliged to explain afterwards; if, even after explaining the National Assembly President, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide, without further ado, on the issue in the day of the vote. We are all witnessing that Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic has never once entitled to respond to any MP of the opposition, let alone all this come to a voting day, which I doubt. You, regardless of all our objections, still respected this procedure and gave us answers. With these answers, we can be satisfied, mostly not, but you respect the procedure. Of course, it all goes down our backs, like when you warned us to throw and even call out those who earn. Now I'm asking you -- why can't a gentleman from the front row, with the badge of a boxing alliance, have a raised fist threatening, remind us why he's throwing it at us? In particular, he threw two to me three times. Is that selective justice? It is the same justice we saw at 13.45 when Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic took advantage of the red buttons and interrupted the presentation of Natasha Jovanovic, vice president of the Assembly. Are we attending the introduction of some new democracy, selective democracy? Is this the direction of Prime Minister Cvetkovic's statement, which he said and remained alive after that statement, that the opposition is jeopardising vital state interests? Is that what he's calling the lynch opposition? Is it his solution to lock us all up, or worse, or better for him, to kill us all, so that there is peace here for God, to carry out all the decisions that have come to his mind? Would it perhaps make it easier for you that Vojislav Seselj commits suicide in The Hague tribunal, to do the same to Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic. Gentlemen, otherwise, I cannot understand this haste of yours for the adoption of this glorious SAA agreement, whatever it means. We're all the problem here because you've brought yourself into a time seal. Excuse me, you are obliged to explain to this people, first of all, who has tasted freedom recently, after 50 years of dictatorship, what democracy is, and you are doing exactly the opposite. Your Boris Broz is on TV and says that people's interests are harmful if the government is divided, at a republican level if it is a yellow company, and if by chance Serbian radicals come to Belgrade. It's his idea of democracy. He took his own adjective, DS. Isn't it democratic for citizens to decide on their own at what level what's right for him? We may be responding to him in the municipality of Zemun, and we are not responding in the Old Town municipality of Palilu... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... and again at the republican voting level for some third, fifth party. Democracy is what your Boris Broz says. You are a very harmful phenomenon in this Serbian people, you who call yourselves Democrats, and you don't even know what democracy is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1435	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was pointed out by MP Milan Avramovic, who has a word after him, MP Nikola Žutic, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1436	Madam Chairman, it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I call on Rule 225 of Rule 1 which I quote - the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. On this occasion, I would like to meet all the MPs as the yellow company continues with the kidnapping of power, although there is no voter will to do so. We can understand all the examples that are happening in Serbia, that the government is being abused by using the police, by using the keys of the official premises, by using the stamps. But that the government abuses its position to remain in the position of government in that part of Serbia where it is the focus, which is KIM, we cannot accept it at all. To keep the government from buying some groups of citizens, such as that example in Surcin, and we can understand that, they have interests, they have a vision of how that money will return, but we cannot allow it to KiM. On this occasion, I would like to meet all the MPs on how this works in Kosovo and Metohija, more specifically in the municipality of Strpce. DS Chief Officer Stanko Jakovljevic, VD Mayor of Strpc, complained that he was forced to leave the office and handed it over to Zvonko Mihajlovic, a radical representative of the Serbs, who was elected on 11 May, who took over the mayor's office two days ago. He says, "I got kicked out of the office. They started a radical cleanup. Now I'm wandering around the offices of Albanian workers and some Serbs. I have notified all structures in Kosovo, UNMIK officials, KFOR, US offices, KPS and the Kosovo Ministry of Local Administration. However, they remain silent," Jakovljevic was amazed. Jakovljevic, who was appointed mayor of the SPGS decision -- a special representative of the secretary general, said he had not received any notice from UNMIK. Imagine if he didn't know that there were local elections in KiM and that his mandate had stopped or not, that he wasn't familiar with it. Jakovljevic says he was elected from the party's ranks of Boris Tadic on 11 May and will disband them all. "They have occupied the municipality. There is a danger that UNMIK will take over the documentation," Jakovljevic said. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, if they accept this high-ranking DS official to extend his mandate, because he asked him for help, which is why Hashim Thaci immediately responded and sent to all municipalities in which Serbs, Leposavic, Zvecan, Zubin Potok and Strpce, where Serbs were the president of the municipality, the following decision, which he signed and in which he stated, which I must quote: "The explanation and executive decisions of the UN Secretary-General number, not to repeat, since 18 December 2007, remain in force, i.e. the councils' committees and presidents of the municipalities listed in the above-mentioned decisions continue to function until they are inauguration of new assembly bodies and the election of new presidents of these municipalities... "(President: four minutes. I quote, please, take it away from me from time...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1437	National MP, the quote refers to quoting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not documents relating to the content...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1438	Just give me half a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1439	Four minutes and 15 seconds. The Rules of Procedure shall apply to you as well as to everyone else. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1440	Obviously, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, there is a problem here. Thank you for interrupting me and by telling the citizens of Serbia everything. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1441	The MP referred to Article 225 of Article 1 requesting further information, asking that a stenogram of his discussion be sent to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and that the Ministry deliver a reply to the MP and the Assembly within the business period. Article 225, to which the MP has been called, says the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions needed to perform the function of the MP. Highlighting the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Žutic, followed by the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1442	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 226. So, I'm asking the government for a notice, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I refer the parliamentary question to the Serbian government, why it put science in an existing humiliating position...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1443	People's MP, please rephrase, as a parliamentary question in this form and under this article cannot be referred.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1444	An MP's question to the government regarding the election of the president...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1445	You cannot refer a parliamentary question, the procedure for asking parliamentary questions has been regulated to the last members of the Rules of Procedure. Just rephrase, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1446	In accordance with Article 225. Unfortunately, Minister Djelic is not with us here, I must express my concern shared by my colleagues in the field of science, that Mr Djelic will do the job of the Minister of Science well. We see in the beginning that Mr Djelic is busy with unskilled topics of the government's rapporteur on the agreement and that he will, first of all, take out the post of Deputy Prime Minister. Didn't science deserve to have a minister who would fully devote himself to such an important area for society and state? During the ministry, Dr. Pesikan also took place the first sensational strike by scientific workers in Serbia's scientific institutes. According to the towers, it was said that the minister herself was not as guilty of the ministry's poor work as her closest associates. I wonder how Minister Djelic will be responsible for controlling his closest associates because of his overwork. The second question is whether Mr Djelic has appropriate scientific references, as his professional biography does not recommend him as minister. In his professional biography, there is no mention of any experience in the scientific field. We've all had opportunities to see Minister Djelic's curricula. According to his professional biography, he graduated from the leading French school for business, then at the Paris Institute of Political Sciences in 1987, mastered financial management, etc. In his professional biography, there is no reference to scientific activity in the institutes. So, Minister Djelic has no scientific calling, he probably never entered the scientific institutes, but probably only saw them on the outside. Due to such a situation, Minister Djelic will lead the ministry through the ministry's secretary or assistants who have scientific experience. So, in the end, I ask the government what Mr Djelic recommended to be Minister of Science and why such an important portfolio is placed under the post of Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1447	I ask the National Assembly's service to refer a stenogram of the debate of the MP to the Secretary-General of the Government and the Ministry of Science and Technological Development and that the MP may receive an answer within the business period. The People's Messenger Dragan Shormaz has the word, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Slobodan Maras. An apology to the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic, I called you, and at the same time the list of applications was made by the secretary and he warned me that MP Šormaz had applied before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1448	Madam Chairman, I would like to point out the violation of Article 104, first and second positions - the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly; the MPs are obliged to address each other with respect. Namely, I had no intention of reacting to something that was said at the end of this session last night, since again, as an incompetent congregation majority, you brought us into this situation so today we don't do what we do but discuss your mistakes and your business violations again. I'll say that last night the president of the DS parliamentary group or whatever, Hope Kolundji, here in her fiery speech, told a great lie. The stenograms can determine that. Knock, don't talk to me from the bench, if you have something to say, come here for a pay phone, so when you throw, you're nothing but you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1449	I ask MP Srdjan Milivojevic not to throw away, and MP Shormaz Dragan not to address the MPs in the bench. Members of the People who receive one warning, I ask the same thing not to violate the Rules of Procedure by throwing, I think we have already discussed the strict, or reasonable application of the Rules of Procedure. You have, of course, the MP 30 seconds we're using for this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1450	Last night, one untruth was made that all the MPs who appeared yesterday in the Rules of Procedure had violated the Rules of Procedure and were thus being manipulated. You can nod all you want, but that's not true. We at the DSS didn't break the Rules of Procedure. We warned of a breach of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, and she confirmed it. She came, sat here after the consultation, told us the words of an apology and admitted to breaking the Rules of Procedure, whether by mistake or ignorance. Last night, your parliamentary group president had no right to put all MPs in the same box. I feel called because I was talking and after me, a break was made. Then, Madam Chairman, you mentioned a member of the 120s here several times wanting to challenge the right to the opposition in the way he works as normal in all democratic systems. I remind you that you were an opposition from 2004 to 2007, that you were a national MP, that we should look at the records and see how many times you inserted the card when the quorum was established, you personally, you personally. Every time. Perhaps only when we were working on the Constitution and when we were doing congregation declarations. Therefore, do not honor others for what you did when you were opposition. Third thing, I don't know where the president is. She keeps doing the same thing yesterday. So, he keeps saying that opposition MPs use the Rules of Procedure to obstruct the work, instead of saying that you have made a mistake, that you are breaking the laws and on Belgrade, makes statements as if a woman lives in that 500-euro shoebox she carries, even though she has always been on the state's salary, has always been on the state's salary, but can wear shoes that cost 500 to 700 euros, and teach MPs how they work, to honor them and to live in a world of her own. Instead of sitting here, taking responsibility and saying she was wrong again, not telling the truth again and telling more women she doesn't deserve to be president. She's got better S.P.S. personnel, so let her resign. Here, Mr. Milan Nikolic is an honest, honest, experienced man, I've known him for years, he can be a better president of the Assembly a hundred times, but that woman, after all she's done in the last three or four days, really doesn't deserve to be president anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1451	I should give some kind of answer, but about what shoes I'm wearing and how my party is running for office, I just think I'm insulting this Parliament's dignity if I get into that story. Mr. Free Maras came forward for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1452	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 225. I'm sorry Mrs. Comic no longer holds the presidency. You two are kind of constantly changing at times when I want to ask one or another question. I'd like you to spread it to me, if Mrs. Komic can't do it right now, Article 225, or in accordance with Article 100. You allow MPs to quote all sorts of things, you give them for that time. The Rules of Procedure are very clear. Time is denied for quoting only infringements of the Rules of Procedure, meaning acts in the Rules of Procedure to be quoted. We may be in danger, or at someone's joy, that Mr. Krasic is all over that criminal report he just showed quotes. That's why I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure incessantly. You, Madam President, have repeatedly demonstrated that you are treating MPs differently with the position and MPs of the opposition, with favors in the opposition that allow you to speak for six or seven minutes. You weren't there, I mentioned that you first warned Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic that he had exceeded his time. Please don't do this anymore. Mrs. Komic, you misread me when I spoke earlier. I really didn't want to argue whether MPs had to put in cards or not and boast that LDP MPs had put in cards and gave the quorum. I wanted to tell you that we have a very good desire and intent to help these laws come to their turn, to discuss them, to adopt them as soon as possible and to allow citizens and this country to go the way we think it's best. Therefore, there was no need for you to give me an explanation or to answer to members of the Rules of Procedure that I did not quote that they were injured. We will no longer report to the Rules of Procedure, we want this session to go its course, and I hope that when you are able, you will respond to me, but in a way that will satisfy me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1453	As regards Article 100, the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his view, is injured, to quote and explain it, and the President of the National Assembly is obliged, after that, to give an explanation. I, therefore, give an explanation, i.e. the chairman, gives an explanation after quoting and explaining which provision of the Rules of Procedure has been violated, not questions from personal, political life and various other intrapsychological experiences. Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1454	Dear fellow Members of the People, I will try to explain to you why we have been seemingly doing nothing in the Assembly for a week or so trying to present ourselves to the public, some of us, first and foremost, the President of the Assembly, and then those who have influence in the media and who can be photographed daily and make statements. It's because you didn't respect the will of the voters, that you presented to the public that you won the elections, that you made up a majority and created a government, as you say 'national reconciliation', which is, however, true, because now the Milosevics, and the Stambolics, and the Trotskys are there with you and something a little practical, so it really is what you're saying. But it doesn't work, it's something that's not normal. This is how you can have the Assembly for days. You know why? Because it is inconceivable for the Serbian people to have one single obligation -- to pay all obligations, to pay taxes, and not to get anything from that state. So he says, "I'm sorry, we have the government, what do I have from having the President of the Republic, and is he protecting me somewhere, is he protecting my country's interests, even though the Constitution obliges him to do so?" The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is very clear there. In Article 97, he says nicely what is the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, and this includes the power of parliament, and the authority of the government and the authority of the President of the Republic. If you look at Article 1, where it is said that the Republic of Serbia regulates and secures sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia, its international position and relations with other states and international organisations, ordinary citizens say, sorry, and where does our President of the Republic work with in my interest? Have you ever heard a word of condemnation in these United Nations, because it is an international organisation, at the expense of what is happening in the UN tribunal, let's say, has anyone raised their voice for torture, for disrespect of human rights, for the destruction of the dignity of all those people who, by their own free will, and by no means their own fault, are found? So, while the state is being cruised by various spies, foreign mercenaries, in the form of Natasha Kandic and others, who are looking for false witnesses who will testify to something that can't be witnessed, while they're chipping us like dogs, we're here, again, after what they say, "the village burns and the grandmother combs." Are we going to deal with those crucial problems and talk about them or are we going to represent to the people that this SAA is particularly important to us, even though the ordinary world can read the paper and realize that the enlargement of the European Union is gone, that what happened in Nice has to remain, that it is 27-27 and there are no more new members. We can sign here and make any decisions, there's nothing there. That we're not just talking about the economic part, about this second agreement that we're going to discuss, which they're only interested in. We are, first of all, interested in whether our state works, whether all the state authorities function, whether they protect the interests of our citizens, or whether we alone have to take out every month's money and pay for what needs to be paid. That's what the citizens tell us, thinking about us, and it's ours whether we get serious or not. I find it really unthinkable that first we, as MPs, are silent, and then the whole nation is deaf to the fact that in The Hague, there is another monster preparing the murder of Dr Vojislav Seselj. Is it really possible for us as humans not to raise our voice against it in different ways? Why doesn't the press open up to people who have something to say about it? Why does television, why there's no gathering, why there's no round tables, why does no one at these international gatherings of our leaders say anything about it? We're waiting for that to happen. We're a small people, we're even 10 million gone, when in a hundred years we bring down a man like that, then we need to keep him safe. Anyone who hasn't figured it out by now will eventually understand. I sincerely hope that if we insist on talking about this, that it won't happen, but believe me, we certainly know it's coming. We've had it with the former president of the Republic. All of you, day and day, are ashamed of what was allowed, no matter what you were throwing balloons and looking forward to the day that they... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1455	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. This was practically showing political attitudes, not advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I can't answer that. In order for the public to be informed, and in accordance with Article 225.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1456	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for several members of the Rules of Procedure. First, according to Article 1 which regulates the rights and obligations of the Members of the People. Madam Chairman, I must inform you that I have received information that a political reconciliation agreement is being celebrated in Papua New Guinea between the SPS and the DS, and that in West Samoa, with great enthusiasm, a debate on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and that the whole world is talking about how you Democrats are, how people who promote don't know what wonderful values, and in fact, the truth is quite different. We've entered the stage when you absolutely have no compass on how you're going to go, where you've already started hitting in the political sense of course with your head against the wall. Now that even those socialists, those losers Krstic and Shaper, gathered on the terrace across the street from dictator Boris Tadic, they can't advise you. How is it going to be when you have this kind of strength in the Serbian Radical Party? And that "in", I tell you again, please contact Professor Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic for help every time you say that, and listen to me nicely to continue this serious story that started with Mrs Pop-Lazic, before Mrs Radeta, Mr Jadranko Vukovic and all of you who do not want to listen to what is going to happen in Serbia of course. Of course, our political action is absolutely explicit, clearly, recognizable, citizens believe in what we do. Every day we get more and more support, and be sure that on the issue of violations of the electoral will of the citizens of Belgrade, that's the first thing, waiting for the decision of the instructed court by Boris Tadic, the minister and you from the DS, that... I say in advance that he is instructed, ma'am, and I bear the political responsibility if I'm wrong, but make sure that's the case. Why is that? For the reason that Mrs. Radet was talking about yesterday. Why is it that a lady who is ad hoc set up as chairman of the Council should retire, because you can't find among the honorable judges of people who will thus meet the political wave of you from the DS and all those who thus trample on the democratic values of citizens? The citizens won't take it. You can organize them on B 92, I don't know which other television to appear on, that only they include themselves and that they allegedly object to it and that all the bells you talk about obstructing the Serbian radicals. But it's nothing compared to what's going to be in the squares, in the streets, in all the democratic means. You know how well we are organized, the strongest, most homogenous political party. Remember the rally outside the American Embassy when Professor Vojislav Seselj strike hunger. Remember how many people there were? I guarantee you that more people will be if the UN tribunal dares, and you and mafia Prime Minister Djindjic have instrumented him to kill Professor Seselj, there will be half a million people in Belgrade on the streets, as there will be over a million people in Belgrade when Professor Seselj returns to Belgrade. But I'm telling you, don't play with these things. It is not a political threat, nor is it a warning, it is a fact, it is required of us by members and citizens, to defend the Constitution, to defend the law, to protect democracy, to protect the Serbian hero Professor. Seselj, to protect all the values we've invested all these years of our work and effort. You don't think it's just been two million and 200,000 Serbian Radical Party voters or half a million members, do you? It is a huge work, both promoting and promoting the best ideology for both the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia, regardless of their national and religious membership. Rest assured, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, who you are trying to disable and do so through instrumentalized courts so as not to be mayor, as the citizens of Belgrade wish, so I tell you, we are the last line of defense, in the brightest sense of all values, both national and democratic. You can see how you're gonna do it. You can't fight us by force or whatever you want. We will fight to the end. All men, people not just from here, people from all over... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1457	Mr. Delic picked up the phone. I am taking the opportunity to inform you, in accordance with Article 85, that even after 18 hours, the National Assembly will work, on the first item of the agenda, and given that there are over 20 MPs reported for advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1458	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I signed up for the Rules of Procedure, for the violation of Rules of Procedure, of Rule 194 and for Articles 101 and 104, two hours ago and asked to wait for Mr Bozidar Djelic, but since he is not coming, I would still like to say about the disrespect of this assembly that he did yesterday on several occasions. I was in the hallway yesterday when Mr. Djelic interviewed several TVs and journalists. I also had a chance to listen to one of his shows on TV last night. Please, it's very perfiduous when the Deputy Prime Minister, one minister, has been accusing the opposition here in the Assembly for a few days. It is very pathetic, gentlemen, when the same minister here in this hallway lists in front of reporters that Serbia will not have bridges, that Serbia will not have hospitals, that Serbia will not have schools, that people will not be able to be treated, that we will not have infrastructure, that there will be no investment in environmentalism because the obstruction is being made by opposition. We, gentlemen, are using perfectly legal and legitimate methods. Now I want to, and that's what I wanted to do to Mr. Djelic, but let me introduce you to and warn you of a member of our 5th Constitution, just on the 1st position and on the last, fourth position. It guarantees and recognises the role of political parties in democratically forming the political will of citizens. Gentlemen, the citizens in the elections have shown their political will and it is perfectly legitimate and legal, you have a majority, but, gentlemen, I now warn you of the final position, and it reads - political parties cannot directly exercise power or subjugate it to themselves. What you are doing in Serbia, we are doing legislative power here, however, you and your leading party, which is here in the front row, wants to subdue all three branches or all three forms of power to itself. Gentlemen, then you must understand that we will not allow you to do so. You have no right to be angry, because we will use the constitutional rights or rights given to us by the Rules of Procedure to prevent the one-witness that you are propagating in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1459	Thank you. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1460	Please, Madam President, you have several vice-presidents, the next time you leave the presidency for a job, please appoint another vice-president, because the only thing that Mrs. Komic does is first to give sermons to the SRS MPs, the second to show up to the maximum its campeicness, to misrepresent all that is said from this pay phone, as SRS MPs say, has reached the limits. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to remind both you and the citizens of Serbia that on this day, 10 years has ended since around 500 Serbs were abducted in Kosovo and Metohija and today their families, 1,300 have been kidnapped, but about 500 Serbs know nothing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the book of Carla del Ponte hadn't come out today, we wouldn't even know that in Bondsteel, that in the manual hospitals in Albania, that even in the meadow, operations were carried out where the organs of the captured Serbs were taken out and sent to hospitals all over that Europe where they are now taking us. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the piety of these people, whose grave is not known, I believe that this democratic majority would at least have to lower the tension and at least a little respect for the MPs, and this light house where we are also located with the citizens of Serbia who sent us all to the holy home, Mr. Prime Minister, to the holy home, a little more respect to show. The fact that you have an absolute majority of 127, if you didn't have LDP, you couldn't even start today's session, they helped you. The fact that your MPs went to sea instead of doing their job is your problem and it's not a problem for the citizens of Serbia, but the problem with the citizens of Serbia is that you're trying in the most unscrupulous way to kidnap the people's will and turn Belgrade into a yellow bassion, no matter how many votes you've had and who's passed in the elections. You don't want the people. The fact that you now have a judge who again for money, probably, or for some privileges, will write a verdict like this or a verdict like that, it doesn't matter. You know, you're gonna have a lot of work and a lot of trouble. Otherwise, Madam Chairman, Art. 225 and 226, not to mention that I did not report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (President: Time. The time of the SRS, Madam Chairman, is just coming. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1461	Mr. Veroljub Arsic is advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating damage to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 101, 104, 105 and 106, from the Vice-President of the Gordana Komic National Assembly, and from the President, Article 104. Since I have a little more members to advertise that have been broken, I would ask the chairman to consider this in determining this famous three minutes, although I will try to be as brief as possible, and I believe that the president of the National Assembly has violated Article 104 of Position 1 that the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Why was there a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Because she authorised National Assembly Vice-President Gordan Comic to lead the continuation of the session of the Serbian Parliament. This did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and I will try to explain to the MPs and the chairman of why. First, because whenever one of the MPs calls to advertise the Rules of Procedure, he insists for three minutes. Four minutes and ten seconds, time locks, microphone turns off. Then Gordana Comić, thinking that we are all complete idiots here, starts to explain that the Rules of Procedure has not been broken and this takes often ten minutes. If there's anything he wants to explain to us, he can come down for this pay phone, like everyone else, three minutes and not a second more. The same Gordana Comic was vice president of the National Assembly from 2001 to 2004. The golden times of the twilight of democracy, now I'm going to tell you why. First, let me remind you that it was a period when you introduced the Rules of Procedure that MPs were fined. That was the period when you conditioned that the opposition must participate in the work of the Assembly and give you quorum, although it is not mandatory in the world. It's the twilight of democracy, if you didn't know. Secondly, you introduced here, when you took away the words, disfellowshipping from the session. She sent the police who fought with the MPs, even when the MPs were expelled, they broke the inventory here, just this bench next to which Miss Lidija Vukicevic is sitting. That's exactly where the police security bench broke down here to throw out certain MPs. Mrs Gordana Komic was involved in all of this. Do you want me to talk more about her? You want me to talk about how a state of emergency was introduced? Who took part in that? I ask a question, for all these wishes to prevent the opposition from working in the Assembly, for whose account was it originally made? It was made for Zoran Djindjic's account, the then prime minister. (President:Time. I'm finishing up, seeing as you're joining Gordani Komic. For his account. Now let one of you explain to me, in that period when the mafia ruled over Serbia and Vojislav Seselj under the order of Zoran Djindjic was delivered to The Hague and later killed in the assassination, tell me the difference that now that in The Hague the attempted murder of Vojislav Seselj... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1463	Mr. Vladan Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia, because as a National MP, I really need an explanation of some inexplicable events that followed the maintenance of a constitutive session of SO Mladenovac, which was held on 16 July, which the assembly majority, an unnatural coalition and a by-product of political trade, rather than the electoral will of the citizens of Mladenvac, who showed the most trust, therefore, in the work. If it wasn't devastating in ethical and legal terms, the constitutive session SO Mladenac, the city and the municipality from which I came, would be in the right sense a theater in the house. Obviously, we are witnessing a number of such examples today, so the Mladenec fits into that picture, that is, the vision of this democratic yellow Serbia. So I'm just going to list some of the inexplicable things and, of course, according to this article, I'm going to try to get an explanation for it. First, as he voted on the first item of the agenda, he found that it was 30 for the vote, and against 26 lawmakers. Of course, nothing would be inexplicable if one simple fact was ignored that the municipality's parliament in Mladenov was 55 seats. The explanation was a technical failure, we'll vote again. Then, although this is clearly defined under the Rules of Procedure, as part of the Commission for the Verification of the mandate, instead of proposing three members from the electoral lists that won the most of the mandates, which is the first place in the SRS, the majority of the SRS, under their own understanding of democracy, and I say again, inexplicably, to decide that all three representatives should be from the list of ZEZ. To my intervention that the Secretary of Parliament, therefore a lawyer, a professional, that the legal interpretation of this inexplicable decision, is declared not to be in accordance with the law, but does not lie to the devil. The democratic parliamentary majority is making a decision to resolve the problem by voting 29:26 this time, although the broken Rules of Procedure are all explained because the democratic majority has so decided. If they wanted to, as they were going, it wouldn't surprise me either, they could have voted because of the majority, let's say that it was December 16th and not July, and that it was snowing outside. It's their understanding of democracy. Finally, it remained the third and most dramatic example, which was that, in a secret vote for the proposed candidates for the president of the municipality, it was said that, behold, the SRS's committee had not called to vote, but was therefore properly rounded up in a ballot with the secretary of the assembly. This is natural ZEZ, but it is explained by a technical slip. I can't even think about what the citizens of the Young Man are expecting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1465	The stenographic notes of the content you have spoken will be forwarded to the Ministry of Local Self-Government and we expect an answer at the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zoran Krasic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1466	I invite you to take the Rules of Procedure, read what it says in Rule 27. Rules of Procedure. It refers to the duties and duties of the President of the National Assembly and, in our case, to all those who chair the National Assembly session. It's written down what needs to be taken care of without getting old, what needs to be taken care of without remaining in debt and what everything the president or chairman of the National Assembly should do. Of course, there is something that should mean the spirit of tolerance and parliamentaryism. But that's impossible in Serbia since DS was in power. Here's a few examples of what it looks like in local self-government. There is no respect for the election will of the people, there is no Gonzales, though, sometimes because of you and Gonzales quickly to finish some work, but what all of us need to worry about, and especially the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is the fact that there is no more hiding in what is called a replacement of the thesis. A kind of replacement of the thesis is exactly what DS is doing in the National Assembly and in Serbia at all. He is obstructing every place to complete the destruction they exist and to destroy Serbia. And if you hadn't reportedly noticed, well, it's the opposition's fault. It's the opposition's fault that the sun is today, it's the opposition's fault when it snows in November or December, it's the opposition's fault. Good, so the opposition is strong. The current situation is about this: 108 MPs are proposing something, and there are not even 124 on this side. That's why it takes a detachment of Chad from DS to give some quorum, so these guys can play some power. The government is not in the National Assembly, the government is across from Boris Tadic. Of course, you are able to sit here non-shallantly, because it is none of your business, since you are not asked about the fate of this country, as you do not care about what is happening in The Hague tribunal, where one masteral defense, anthologically significant, devalues in such a way as to impose a lawyer, because it is known that Vojislav Seselj will not suffer, because it is known that he will decide to strike hunger and then it is known that you will say, as you have said several times, because you are their puppets, to end this story until the end. Take care of what you do, take care when you are present in this building of the National Assembly to cultivate a spirit of tolerance and parliamentaryism. Make sure you represent the interests of the citizens and take care of them, just for two more seconds, I can't wait for the debate to begin on this agenda point. Hurry home if you're in a hurry, I don't mind you going home. Feel free to go home. I don't have you at all. I have no intention of holding you, burn you home as soon as possible. Not to burn down the house, but to go home. Of course, since I'm famous for these things, I skip to the DS and get a stenogram of what Bozidar Djelic is preparing for us. Here's a point that says - we signed the SAA in Serbian with Cyrillic and thus entered our national identity and cultural heritage into the European Union. So, identity and cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1467	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1468	At first, I think that, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it was politically incorrect and inhumane when you turned off the microphone when Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic spoke. She spoke of the Serb people's enemies being killed in The Hague tribunal by Slobodan Milosevic, who was not only the president of Serbia and the president of the SRJ, but also the president of your party and thanks to the glory of his name, your parliamentary group came first in this parliament. What I came forward for were members of 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia. These days, or the last months after the May 11th local elections ended, the Republic of Serbia has become the site of the worst and most serious political crime. Of course, the most dramatic example is the city of Belgrade and the ethnic MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have said enough about it, but a drastic example of political crime, whose protagonist is the Democratic Party and mobsters and tycoons who finance it, is unfortunately the municipality of Ruma. On July 8, 2008, a constitutive session of the Assembly of the Municipality of Rum was scheduled to take place. One SRS committee didn't show up for a constitutional session. It's Mrs. Tina Antonic, she didn't go anywhere, and it's not funny at all, I don't know why you're Caricating the whole situation. I'd ask you -- how would you react that your child might have disappeared and not know where he is for 10 days. So, on July 8th, about 2 o'clock a.m., a foreign license plate car came in and drove her off in an unknown direction, along with a 15-year-old kid. I filed a report to the police station on July 9th, which reads as follows: I am reporting Tina Antonic's disappearance from Pavlovac, the street of Marshall Tito No. 1. It was last seen at a meeting of the SRS parliamentary group in Rumi on 7 July 2008. Tina Antonic didn't show up at the constitutive session of SO Ruma on July 8th 2008. According to her parents, on July 8, 2008, around 2:00 a.m., she was picked up by a car of foreign registration plates and drove off in an unknown direction. It is not excluded that Tina Antonic was kidnapped on a political basis and that her life is in danger. Please take the necessary measures to find Tina Antonic, i.e. to determine exactly where she is. (President: Time. ) All right, I'll respect the time and the Rules of Procedure and report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. I'd just like to ask you to tell your DS political comrades not to laugh at what I'm saying, it's a very dangerous precedent, one hard crime. The woman's been missing for ten days, and no one knows where she is. It's a woman who lives alone with a 15-year-old child. This is not the only case in Serbia that people are being taken away, that they do not know where they are, just because it fits the DS. Mrs. Hope Kolundji is being investigated, and I don't know why, it's the most serious crime of all, but I'm reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1469	We will forward the stenographic notes concerning everything you have spoken about and we will ask them for an answer, as will Mr Krasic, as will Mr Krasic, as well as the Government's Office of the Hague Tribunal, on the rights and human rights issues of Mr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. Vuceta Toskovic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1470	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226, that the MPs are familiar with the obstruction of this assembly led by, in my opinion, the SPS, because it is also the chairman of the Assembly from their ranks. In no way can the gentlemen of the SRS do it, because we are doing what we came here to do. So, we do our job right. Looking at how these congregations are being led by both the vice presidents and the president, I don't think they're up to this assembly and their positions. Mrs. Comićka, who chaired it an hour ago, all the MPs know about her behavior when she's in the benches, sitting on the bench, throwing, doing whatever she wants, because her party allows her to do so, and when she comes to the chair of the table, then acts like she's a professor of good behavior and all the MPs are getting into the word and doesn't allow to explain why the MP came out. So, in most cases, the DS behaves so that it has the impression that it is making anarchy in this Serbia. We in the South Bare County have five municipalities where we have our presidents and are trying by force to obstruct the work of these municipalities where we have most of them, we have with some members of the SPS, and we have somewhere where we have no SPS at all. We need to let the citizens of Serbia know that a dictatorship is being introduced here, a dictatorship is being announced, as some 20 years ago, by King Alexander had the opportunity to introduce a dictatorship, only here in the DS all those who are members and who were MPs of the DS were before these multilaterals all communists. I don't know how and how they transformed into Democrats, because there is no democracy in the DS when his president said immediately at the beginning that the DS had won and had no results, when he said that by all means, possible and impossible, he would prevent congregations from being established in Belgrade and other municipalities where the SRS and other coalition partners came to power. The time will come, and I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1471	And these stenographic notes will be delivered to the Ministry of Local Self-Government, with questions you have raised. I'm asking Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic to take her word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1472	Mrs Djukić-Dejanović, in your absence, you were replaced by the Vice-President of Mrs Komic's Assembly and because of her way of running the session, I object to the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 100, and in relation to Article 101, where Article 3 is misused in the sense that the President is, and I am talking about the current vice-president at that time, who is obliged to give an explanation, all the time, to abuse, because it comes out of the three-minute frame of time, which is applied to explanations by analogy, because for the replication and violation of the Rules of Procedure is common and allowed time of three minutes. I see it as a claim by Mrs. Comic, who is very qualified to lead the Assembly, so you can take her to sit closer and help you otherwise, but it really is wrong that each of her explanations lasts longer than five minutes. Otherwise, under Article 226, I request that you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, as president, answer the next question - whether a procedure has been launched, which we MPs do not know, is in the procedure of the law on the abolition of local elections. I'm asking about everything that's going on in Belgrade, Titus, Frog, Kickindi, King and a lot of cities, Rumi, and the next. If the vertical revision of the Republic government at local level, to the municipalities and the city of Belgrade, has turned out to be necessary under the interpretation of Mr Tadic and should be the principle of forming power, then I wonder what the local elections will do for us. It costs, we need to save time, power and energy, but come on, state that law if it's in the process. I think Mr. Tadic applies the principle of democracy of Henry Ford that says -- you can have any car, but provided it's black, and that means our conditions that citizens can vote for a party that's out in the West or in America as desirable and that only according to that can democracy or dictatorship be declared. Gentlemen Members of Parliament, colleagues and citizens, the very essence of democracy is precisely the freedom to choose in elections and freedom to lead a country independently economically, above all, politics, but also externally. We don't have it today. And the propo of that earlier comment by Mr Žutić, that the parliamentary question cannot be asked under Article 226, in order to conduct the debate in accordance with the agenda, I will ask you to inform all ministers individually, the Vice-President and the Prime Minister, that they will deliver to us a document on which ratification agreements will only be possible for discussion if they deliver the document to extend the deadline for their effectiveness. Only one of them, the reconstruction of traffic, I'm going to abuse time with one sentence, it says -- the deadline for entry into force is 90 days from the date of the agreement. The agreement was concluded in Belgrade on the day and year that was first cited. First listed, in nine out of ten such agreements, that date is July 27th. So, 27.10.2007. We can't discuss these documents. Since you haven't changed your agenda, which I warned you about, I demand that the Government deliver a document -- that the lenders extended the deadline for the entry into force of these agreements and we will be able to discuss it. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1473	I'm not familiar with the fact that in the making of legal matter it's related to the change of choices at local level, but I'm not disabling that possibility, and we're going to refer the question to the Ministry of Local Self-Government. Regarding your question, it was also addressed directly yesterday in the presence of the prime minister, who has received the question and will give you an answer in the exposé. Mr. Jovan Palalic picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1474	President-in-Office, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I am advocating Article 226, within which the right of the MP is defined to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues under the rights and duties of these officials. I want to ask the question - did the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government react to the events concerning the establishment of the Belgrade City Assembly and the constitution of the Vozdovac Municipality. Namely, as it happened in the Belgrade City Assembly that there was a violation of both the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, so we saw one situation that I believe was unremembered in cases of democracy, that 54 was more than 56, so we also saw the situation of SO Vozdovac that in the election of local self-government authorities, random passers-by, security members and various other officials. I have knowledge that the Ministry has not responded. But what is more surprising is that the Ministry reacted in the case of the City of Kings, when it was spotlessly, at the request of the opposition parties there, sent a letter to the City of Kings Assembly - that it was allegedly due to the failure of the Rules of Procedure that the entire process of establishing the bodies of the Assembly of the City of Kings was restored. It is truly amazing that the ministry is not responding to such serious violations of the law when it comes to Belgrade and Belgrade municipalities, and in some other environments this is happening. Why am I pointing this out? I point out that last year, when the same problem occurred in the Belgrade City Assembly, the ministry also reacted after a serious and long-term debate here in the Assembly by making a decision and returning the whole matter to a procedure that was in line with the Rules of Procedure and the Law. In that sense, I would ask, in addition to expecting the competent judicial authorities to respond, here a political body such as the ministry is due to come forward. Belgrade is not a small municipality in the interior of Serbia, although it should respond when it comes to smaller municipalities, i.e. let the ministry react to the City Assembly and to the constitution of SO Vozdovac. I would simply give a suggestion, given that we have heard more discussions here on the constitution of the Belgrade City Assembly, it would be good to take advantage of business opportunities, Article 98 - that this session is interrupted until these issues are resolved, because the representatives of the opposition and the applicants, in this case from the DSS-NS and the SRS, cannot go beyond the fact that in the largest and capital of the state are breaking regulations, the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. In that sense, it's better to interrupt the session, wait for a decision and then we'll have a political debate here again and, of course, wait for the Ministry's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1475	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Mico Rogovic. Your question will be forwarded to the Ministry of Local Self-Government and I expect them to respond within the deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1476	Dear fellow Members of the People, Madam President, we had, at least 60 minutes ago, benefiting from the new MPs in this assembly's assembly, one hour from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where one of the vice-presidents, who you have authorized to change you during your absence, violated members of 119 and 120, persistently reminding us of that article. Now it's art. 119th and 120th violations by colleagues representing the majority, the authorities, so I invite you to respond by calling technical services that for people who are not in the O.R., and have left their cards in their seats, retreat from the same. I'm also advertising an injury. 84th and 85th. This is because of the citizens of Serbia, who should know that around 14.15 today, the agenda has come to us from the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps neither we nor the citizens of Serbia could be familiar with the agenda. Because of the public and citizens of Serbia, I note that the full set of agenda items is in the draft agenda, and as the most important thing is the last item of the agenda - a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the continuity of state policy in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. I remind you, Madam Chairman, that you were recently in the same position as the right side of my assembly payphone, that you were dictatorshipd by the so-called so-called. The DOS regime had to learn you too. I remind Serbian citizens that the same things now apply to you and not only in Belgrade, but in all municipalities of all Serbia, wherever these things may be done, you are doing the same things these days. A whole set of accusations on municipalities from the interior, as well as from Belgrade, is in front of the district courts, all because part of the majority government in which you participate does not enforce the rules of procedure, nor the statutes, nor the laws on local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1477	Thank you. You received only a consolidated text, and Mr Nikolic, the president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, also participated in the order of agenda items. The word is Mr. Todorovic. Please, before I give it to you, let me just answer the MP. The MPs, according to Article 120, are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the MP's unit, i.e. to check out when leaving the hall, as the Vice President spoke of. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1478	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, you're probably out of trouble or because you might think you've done something you haven't done, you said we're off to the first point of the agenda. I've got to let you know, I've got a stenogram, and now I'm going to read you your words, "We're going to work on the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudic answered. "So, we're not even on the 1st item of the agenda, we're not on the agenda, so we don't have to convince ourselves, this is your stenogram, and I got it from the service, and you, 18,00 hours is your deadline to finish this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1479	Mr Todorovic, article 85, says the president can extend the work of the National Assembly after 18.00 hours, until the debate is completed in principle, i.e. in detail, on the starting point of the agenda. That's the case you're talking about. However, attitude 4 - extraordinary, the president of the National Assembly may decide that a session of the National Assembly is held for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18,00 hours, if there are reasonable reasons for this to be heard by the president. I have told you that there were at least 20 MPs who advertised the Rules of Procedure at that point; as you can see, that number has now increased to over 50. For me, these are the reasons why we extend the work. I give my word to Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go. All right, if you're not happy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1480	Mrs. Dejanovic, I'm counting on you to be a serious woman. I understand that I'm explaining to some people, I wouldn't bother, but I'm counting on you to be a woman of integrity, to take care of yourself. I'm reading your words and you can do whatever gymnastics you want: "We're going to work on the agenda. "You've been trying that transition the second day, but we haven't crossed, Mrs. Dejanovic. At that point, you say, "After the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudic answered." Not for a single moment, not for a second have we gone to work on the agenda. I'll leave you this paper, read it, consult. You can do whatever you want with the violence of the majority. Believe that we will endure, but not because of the citizens of Serbia. This won't take long, as far as I can see, and leave such bitter taste for such short operation in the Serbian Parliament. You, Mrs Dejanovic, are a long MP, and so is my smallness, but it has never happened that at the very beginning of the assembly such a mess arises, that you are not able to hold a first session normally. It's something that shows there's something rotten in the state of Denmark and this won't take long. Don't insist that you advocate your authority... Please, if it's a problem and it's hard, there's water here, help yourself, but don't disturb the speaker, it really doesn't make sense. So, Mrs. Dejanovic, this is a stenogram, take a stenogram, you absolutely have no option at all to claim that what didn't happen. We are not on the agenda because Mr Aligrudic immediately reported to the Rules of Procedure. So, we didn't go to the agenda, you know how it goes on the agenda. Take a stenogram from some usual session where it's done, so you'll see exactly how the order goes and how and when, at which point, it moves to work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1481	Thank you. There are indeed those here who have long been in parliamentary benches, there are many lawyers. I've applied to Article 85(4), not Article 5, which you're talking about. (Verica Radeta, from Place: Item 5 explains attitude 4.) Srboljub Zivanovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1482	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I remember in 2001 when Dosmanli authorities came to Serbia and when the main thesis and the main flossules then spoke, which is democracy, transparency, the fight against corruption and crime. But whenever a political campaign begins, in its pre-election campaign for the Republic's parliament, you are constantly emphasising the thesis - the fight against corruption and crime. It has never been, apart from Mihajlovic, from 2001 to 2004, that the interior minister was not of DS order. You shouldn't have recruited because your man was supposed to arrest your criminal, your people who participated in corruption. Let's look at the first ministers who started operating in this Dosmanlij government, which is Pitic, Dinkic, Vlahovic, Djelic, all criminals to criminals. That's why I said... Mr. Milivojevic, the zoo works until 20.00 hours, you can visit... (President: Please use decent terms. )......................................................................................................... Visitors are still visiting, you can visit the zoo. If you look at these people who were ministers back then, and I don't know why, a year ago there was a big controversy here at the beginning, when I said that two and a half, three years ago the biggest boss, best man or whatever you want to call him, the man who united all the criminals and mobsters in Serbia, was Zoran Djindjic. The continuation of this continuity and such a criminal policy continued Boris Tadic. If I took chronologically to read to you, to see for yourself what the current new government looks like with the people who make it, which is the first Bozidar Djelic. I have nothing to say about him. (President: Time. Will you bring the end? ) Just one more thing to mention, it's Dragan Sutanovac, it's also one big criminal, and it's a follow-up... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1483	The word is Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are Mrs Djukic-Dejanović and yesterday and today have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this is Article 88, which reads - at the beginning of the work of the National Assembly, every day when the National Assembly of Sessions, the President of the National Assembly informs the National Assembly of MPs who have been prevented from attending meetings of the National Assembly, which you are zealously doing, as well as of who was invited to the session. You, MPs, do not inform us who is invited to the session, which states that you do not really know who they are sending to the meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this way they humiliate you, but they humiliate us also the Messengers of the people. Yesterday it was Mr. Bozidar Djelic, with all his boulument. I really didn't know who those people were. Today, Mr Djelic came alone, and I must tell you that when the Duke of Meridian Bank, who acquired the first 11m euros by robbing Serbia, attends a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I do not feel safe. I believe most of the MPs, because people who have gained 11m euros in this way in Serbia have their own private security, so I can expect him to show up here tomorrow with some tough guys, with guns, which won't be the first time here in this National Assembly room. Maybe I can expect him to take his aunt tomorrow, whose straw he slept on, until he filled hiss, and now, of course, he's sleeping on Santa. That is why, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I ask you to inform us in future who is all but the MPs invited to the National Assembly session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1485	Thank you. In writing, you are informed of who will be present at individual points and who will be the rapporteurs, so I will take the opportunity to make a reminder of what I did in writing at each point. Mr. Milorad Buha came to the floor, and let Mr. Milan Avramovic prepare. (Vladan Batic: I called before him. No, believe me, there are 20 before you. What can I do? I'd love to give you my word, but you have to wait too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. I am taking the opportunity to ask the President of the Assembly a question: where are these representatives who have been officially nominated as government representatives on the agenda? Mr. Djelic was here for half an hour, then left and was gone. The assembly has continued its work, but the government's representative is missing. Finish up and please give me back my time, you're distracting me...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1487	Keep going, I'll count you in, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1488	I request a notice from the government and the foreign ministry on certain statements made by the foreign minister at the meeting of the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative in Zagreb a month ago, when he said that there are certain issues between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia to be discussed, particularly on the issue of ethnic cleansing of Serbs from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, in the period from 1991 to 1995. Following that statement in Croatia, the right salva of criticism followed a statement by our foreign minister. Critics were addressed by President Mesic, Prime Minister Sanader, Minister of Government, political party representatives, institutions, etc. On the other hand, the Serbian public, and especially the foreign minister, have been silent. I ask the question, did the foreign minister who came out with these claims tell a lie, not to say he lied. If he lied, it's a slander against a state or it's about actual facts and events from 1991-1995. Why the Minister, why the Government kept quiet about all this. The real truth is that a war crime of genocide and ethnic cleansing took place between 1991 and 1995, and we can see it from a stenogram of intercepted talks between Wesley Clark and Solana, where Wesley Clark clearly and Decided - I have ordered that Serbs from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, be expelled from the areas where they lived, or from their homes. Does the foreign minister, who now is silent, have the right to remain silent? Do we all have the right to remain silent together? We are committing a crime, a criminal offence, and according to national law and international law. It's about the most serious forms of crime, it's a war crime of genocide and ethnic cleansing over a nation. Let me just say that in the 1991-1995 war... (President: Time. ..... 7,000 Krajisniks died, that 15,000 wounded, 800,000 expelled, 35,000 residential and industrial buildings were robbed, destroyed and burned to 10 churches and other buildings, apartments owned by...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1489	Will you bring the end?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1490	Please, extend me, because I couldn't at first, I lost two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1491	You got a minute and a half more.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1492	Thank you. I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1493	Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go. Please, the agreement is to do so, Miss Natasha has given consent on behalf of all of you, if we agree in the presidency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1494	Madam President, I assume that you were under the lime in Pogorevec yesterday experienced Nirvana, that you are now completely relaxed and that you are likely to hear what your senior president once advocated, which is one hatred, spite and all that is against Europe, European integration and the Western world. Four hours ago, I suggested to you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 98. Rules of Procedure, interrupt this session or take a break, because there are obviously no conditions for the operation of the highest representative body. You don't know who he represents here. The most legislative body, whose head you are at, discusses everything and everything, but doesn't discuss any law for three days. I remind you that no first item of the agenda has been initiated, that you have violated the provision of Article 85(4). The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and therefore you could not announce the extension of the session after 1800 hours, did not begin the debate on the draft law. Madam President, you treat MPs as your patients. You're here to demonstrate some kind of collective therapy. This looks like a theater of absurdity. It's been three days. Why don't you say honestly, you are the most responsible, how much a working day of parliament, 70, 80,000 euros, has been spent over 200,000 euros in three days. Why? Because you keep trying to turn us all into masochists. It is clear that discussions on agenda points will not take place until an enigma of the Belgrade City Assembly is resolved. It must be resolved in one way or another on Tuesday. Either you wait for a resolution before Tuesday, and then you schedule a session when that dilemma or enigma is resolved, or you schedule an extension of this session for Wednesday, when the options for discussion and decision on the proposed agenda will be obtained. Everything else is completely absurd. You know that, we all know that, everybody knows that, and then, consciously or unconsciously, deliberately or unwittingly, everyone participates in that theater of absurdity that is, unfortunately, not the most representative, not the most legislative body, but the most legislative body, but the reminder, I would say, that doesn't sound very pejorative, to the variety of Colorado.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1495	I would like to remind you once again that by now 44 MPs have received a word, which have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that 27 more have applied and that I have applied the position of the 4th member of the 85th, when I gave this explanation as a reason for the extension of the work. Mr. Milan Avramovic answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since Mrs Comic chaired Mrs Comic in the afternoon or first part of the afternoon session, did not give me the opportunity to finish my thought and therefore I returned to the Rules of Procedure. So it's the municipality of Strpce. In the municipality of Strpce, the president of the Municipal Committee of DS Strpce, Mr. Stanko Jakovljevic, expressed his problem about not leaving the building and the office in which the president of the municipality of Strpce is located. What is very important is that he complained to all Kosovo institutions that are competent there. What is even more important is that he received a decision directly from Hashim Thaci and if he applies it first, in fact, he will be the first Serb to recognise an independent Kosovo. If that were the case, I would have to read one part of this decision to Hashim Thaci, who says, 'According to Article 6(2). A comprehensive proposal to resolve Kosovo's status from 26 March 2007 and constitutional provisions, i.e. item 123, item 4 and Article 5(2). The Law on Local Elections, the Government of the Republic of Kosovo confirms the executive decisions of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, the Law on the Local Elections of the Republic of Kosovo... '", so the numbers are listed, '"... remain in force, i.e. the councils of the municipalities and the presidents of the municipalities referred to above's decisions, continue to function until new municipalities are inaugurated and new presidents are elected'. So, what is the essence of this decision signed by Hashim Thaci? The point is that if this DS gentleman Stanko Jakovljevic accepts the extension of Hashim Thaci's mandate, which calls for a decision of the Kosovo Constitution, which is in fact illegal, he will be the first Serb to recognise Kosovo and Metohija as a whole, as a country and its constitution. Therefore, I ask you to draw attention first, within the DS lines, that this is not done because it is very important, because it is a municipality in Kosovo and Metohija. It is also happening in the municipalities of Leposavic, Zvečan and Zubin Potok, where these municipality presidents rejected this argument or this decision by Hashim Thaci. The second thing, in accordance with Article 226, is in the central municipality of Savski Venac, this famous president of the Belgrade City Assembly Mr Branko Belic also chaired the Sava Venac Municipality Assembly and illegally gave himself some privileges. I'm asking the Minister of Local Self-Government to see if he's a respected member of 39. A law on local self-government, in which he says the president of the assembly has a deputy who replaces him in the event of his absence and prevents him from carrying out his duty. There, distributed with LDP and G 17, they put themselves more deputies, more members of the Municipal Council, and therefore it is necessary to check the ministry and cancel this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1497	Your questions will be addressed to the ministries of Kosovo and local self-government and will be answered. He has the word Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1498	I'm quoting article 85. Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 4, 5 and 6. "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly may decide that a session of the National Assembly is held for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18.00 hours, if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the president declares to the MPs." Item 5: "The President may extend the work of the National Assembly after 18.00 hours, only until the debate is completed in principle, in particular, on the starting agenda". Item 6: "On the extension of the session after 18.00 hours, the president is required to inform the National Assembly no later than 16.00 hours on the day of the session proposed by the extension of work." From this comes the unequivocally following: first, the extension after 18.00 hours is an exception for which there must be justifiable reasons. Always and in any case, it's a general rule. In order for this rule to be applied, the key to this is to point 5, and it says: to apply the rule set out in Article 4 in order to extend the debate after 18.00 hours, it can only be extended until the debate is concluded in principle or in particular on the starting point of the agenda. So she had to start the agenda to apply the general rule of Section 4. Because you're not a lawyer, I understand that, but you have a lawyer sitting next to you and interpreting your Rules of Procedure. So you need to know that, as a special rule is applied to general, which is applied to lex specialis derogat lex generals. It's a familiar rule. Under the same norm, a special rule changes the general rule in the part in which it derogates it. Therefore, you must know that you are required, in accordance with paragraphs 5 and 6, regardless of the general rule laid down in Article 4. You're wrong, Madam President of the National Assembly. Secondly, it's not clear what you're actually trying to accomplish by, what's the essence of what you're doing? I've heard from the halls what your intentions are, and now I'm asking you to confirm whether it's true or not. I've heard, apparently, that you want to extend the work after 18.00 hours to get us into a vampire session deep into the night, perhaps by dawn, so that those who protest, expressing their political stance in this way, I suppose you'll tire of and thus prove: or that they are unable to maintain a political pace of what they want to perform; or to prove that the opposition is obstructing parliament's work. Believe me, Madam President of the National Assembly, neither is true. The opposition here is not obstructing the work of the National Assembly, obstructing the work of the National Assembly by those from the ruling majority or political party of the ruling majority and their political leaders who organised this miracle, this disaster in the Belgrade City Assembly, this bold attempt to establish something that is illegal as legal, to make the majority 54 instead of 56 out of 110. That people with uncertained mandates continue to establish the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, to build out of some illegal state, allegedly legal state, so that you can in this way undisputedly and undisturbedly rule the directives of a centre, from a house that stands across from us, from the cabinet of the president of the state. That's your goal, that's your idea, that's what you plan to do. That's what no one in their right mind can get over. I said at first, the DSS has no idea that even for such an important reason, the work of the National Assembly should be blocked by the violations of the Rules of Procedure. That's why we haven't reported in much, but we don't think we should criticize those who think it's their way of working, because what they're looking for is justifiable. (President: Time.) If your goal is really to make a circus out of this assembly by passing 1800 hours today, inventing a reason that doesn't exist under the Rules of Procedure, trying to make a circus a vampire session, believe me, what we've brought out as a reason for not reporting to the Rules of Procedure, it will turn into a reason to report to the Rules of Procedure, to support those... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1499	One more explanation. Of course, I consult a professional service and a lawyer who sits next to me, who is acting as secretary of the Assembly. Article 84(4) says the president of the National Assembly, if there are reasonable reasons for this, to be given by the president to MPs, can extend the work even after 18 hours. The next position is a concrete and special case, not an explanation of the previous position, that the president can extend the work after 18 hours and only until the debate is completed in principle on the starting point of the agenda. The secretary and professional services have informed me that I have the right to, if there are reasonable reasons for that, which I have told you, and I have announced what these reasons are, and your interest in advertising the Rules of Procedure and that you should practically, please, I have explained on two occasions. If you're not happy with this answer, I'd also like to inform you that we're probably not going to work after 22 hours tonight, but that's why we're working tomorrow. Mr. Bojan Mladenovic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. I want to get an answer to the question of how it is possible to elect the President of the Voždovac municipality after the session is suspended, and that is elected outside the Assembly Hall, office number 38, where we have no insight into the course of the vote, nor do we know how many people voted, nor are they people. Namely, the continuation of the session that was scheduled to begin on Tuesday, 15. At 1:00 p.m., he was more than half an hour late. The oldest public call committee found that there were 28 of the 56 committee members in the hall, i.e. that there are no conditions for working, for continuing the session because there is no quorum. The session is adjourned, will be convened in a day or two, when most of them are present. After that, DS's committees are under the impression that they're having a violent session. The oldest DS boardman, who is also not the oldest committeeman, declares himself chairman, empowers himself to continue the session and gives a 10 minute break, even though some committee members have already left the assembly hall. Later in the day, he was elected to a non-existent meeting by the president of the municipality, outside the assembly hall, in office number 38. It stood in front of security and did not allow the opposition's committees to go in and vote. This has so far been unrecorded, that only elected committees can vote, or those who are in favour, and those others, according to the new democracy, have no right to vote. In the same way you chose the deputy president of the municipality, also outside the assembly hall, also in office number 38, with committees who can vote. We suspect that there were enough votes for their election, because we couldn't attend the same and we don't know what number of committee members voted. This is a big mess, first of all for DS, a big disgrace for the Vozdovac municipality. I must point out that Goran Lukacevic came with the city's security detail, with the security of the civilian police force. Many state leaders can envy him for such security. About 18 hours later, DS and others went to the first floor of the municipality, their coalition partners. The representatives of the SRS remain in the Assembly Hall. Security is coming in and throwing out our committees, turning off the light, locking down the assembly hall and informing us that the supposed sessions won't be. We wait half an hour, an hour, and after an hour, seeing the prank fail, the DS board and their partners come down and continue the session. These pranks should serve them honor, so far they've been unrecorded in the Vozdovac municipality. During this shameful illegal session, we saw that Predrag Matic, who is not a committee, voted in G 17 Plus by Mirko Shuman, who is not a committee member, then Nemanja Djurđevac, president of the MZ "Bruce Jerkovic" who is also not a committee member. We have a video of all of this being seen, which was handed over to the District Court. To repeat for the end, after the session was interrupted, she could not continue, everything that was going on was illegal and all decisions should be annulled, and the oldest committee member should schedule a resuming session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1501	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1502	I don't know for what reason, Madam President of the National Assembly, every time one of the MPs mentions the fact that the UN tribunal intends to kill Vojislav Seselj, you rule out the tone. That's why I'm not taking any chances, and I'm gonna take immediate chances on Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, that's exactly what I'm talking about. So, I remind the people's MPs and the public of Serbia that he is responsible because Vojislav Seselj has been in The Hague for six years, and that his life is at stake, and that the Hague prosecutor's office is in despair because he cannot prove any of what was written here in Belgrade in the indictment and intends to kill Vojislav Seselj for that purpose to protect the integrity of the court. Those yellow dictators, or, above all, mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, would be responsible for this. Just don't jump when I say - the mafia prime minister, because just now one of the colleagues who was, not just before today, who was a member of the government of Zoran Djindjic, said that Mrs. Djukic should warn me when I say that Zoran Djindjic is the mafia prime minister, he says - because the MP has no right to express the facts of private life. Now, what do I do to him when the man was prime minister, I have to bring out that part of his private life. Also, I remind you yellow, whether it was March 15th or 16th, 2003, when you were here, while Djindjic had not yet cooled down, elected Zoran Zivkovic as prime minister, kissed, sang, hugged, smiled from ear to ear, we were on this side, at the time there were 23 Serbian radicals, baffled, we couldn't believe how inhumans, immoral and how you can treat a man who, by the time, or by the moment of death, was president. So, we warn, above all, all the state authorities, that these days, a hack is being led against the defence witnesses of Vojislav Seselj, also in order to take their passports, bring them to this special court, your special prosecutors and judges want to force these people to take them to The Hague, to present them there as witnesses of the charges, and they are clearly and loudly, and publicly and in writing, informed the Hague tribunal that they do not want to be witnesses of the charges, but only witnesses of the defence of Vojislav Seselj. I also remind you that if, God forbid, you would succeed in your intention to kill Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, the Serbian people would never forgive you, unlike some. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, allow me, please, just one more sentence regarding the application of Article 85. I can see you're out of line and I don't blame you, you're not a lawyer, but I'm limited by Mr. Veljko Odalovic's legal ignorance, who's trying to make us lawyers what he obviously is. I wonder if you've passed Mr. Odalovic by Law School, when you can separately interpret one position of article 85, and you don't want to link him completely logically to the next position. You still have time to start that agenda. Why are you impatient? You might even start it by 6:00, then you're right, because at 3:30, you said you'd keep going, but you left out to say, by the point that's on the agenda. If you don't, then you'll be dealing with the Rules of Procedure longer than you planned.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1503	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji answered her word. Just to take the opportunity, so all the contents that have been presented for your suspicions regarding Mr. Vojislav Seselj, we will deliver to the government's Office for Co-operation with The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1504	Madam President, MPs, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 103. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that the MP has the right to speak only about what is on the agenda. I am reporting for the fact that they are mostly appearing here under Articles 225 and 226, and all of them must know that the advantage of giving words to those who appear in the Rules of Procedure is above all because this may prevent a procedural error, which may lead to decisions that may result from a procedural error, and there is no reason for them to talk about everything and everything, about what is not the subject of the work of this congregation, not even the jurisdiction of the work of this congregation. Please, according to what our job is here, which is that we bring important legal projects that depend on the fate of Serbian citizens and that we do it by respecting each other. What's very important to us is that we try to create an atmosphere in which we work together, even if we're not on the same side. There is no doubt that what is happening today and yesterday in the Assembly is preventing the work of this assembly, something that there is no excuse for which you can justify to neither your voters nor other citizens of Serbia. So today we have several perhaps most important legal projects in front of this congregation. Serbian citizens expect us to discuss these legal projects, face arguments and eventually make a decision that will be in the interest of Serbian citizens. Once again, I ask you and I call on you to, in the spirit of tolerance, in the spirit of co-operation in this House that we want to develop, unless there is a possibility for such an atmosphere, what is the obligation then to move on to strict respect for the Rules of Procedure and to stop all abuses of the Rules of Procedure, which have been happening here for days, by applying the Rules of Procedure exactly as he defines the rights and obligations of the Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1505	Thank you. The word is Jerkov Alexander.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1506	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Members 103 and Article 104, it's attitude one. What is a paradox and what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have had the opportunity to notice is that today, yesterday and yesterday in this assembly, they report that they are advertising the violation of Article 104, which speaks of the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, just the ones most infringing the dignity of the National Assembly. What is still interesting and represents a special curiosity is that MPs who, according to the record, are not present at all at this session, who do not want to be identified when entering the hall, and therefore it is very strange why they have the opportunity to participate in this session at all. If someone is not in the O.R., he should not be able to discuss the points of the agenda, at least abuse his own parliamentary options. The worst part is that they do all this under the defence of democratic values or democracy as such, as we have had several times already to hear from them. The Rules of Procedure do not give any MP the right to block the work of this assembly by advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I only ask that when you do that, think about how much each working day of this assembly costs the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and to start doing your job, and that is to ensure that all together that the citizens of this country live better. Today we are on the agenda of loans and donations from the European Union that are intended for infrastructure, rehabilitation of roads and bridges, railways. These are projects designed to build hospitals. These are projects that are confirmed to continue. This certificate will be shown at the moment when you allow them to come to the agenda and by preventing them from coming to the agenda you are actually preventing the citizens of this country from living the normal life they deserve and from having that obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1507	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1508	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, I promise you on behalf of the Democratic Party, on behalf of the coalition For European Serbia, on behalf of the parliamentary majority that this Stabilisation and Association Agreement will be brought into this house, despite the opposition's efforts to prevent it. I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, members 101 and 103, because we are really gathered here to discuss this agreement. The agreement was one of the more fundamental promises of the Democratic Party during its entire political struggle, throughout its political engagement. The European definition is indeed the definition of both the Democratic parties, and the coalitions for European Serbia and the parliamentary majority. I am advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 101, because in this House, the very leprosy dictionary, very arrogant and passionate dictionaries are referred to as the tragically injured president of the Democratic Party, it is specifically about the Prime Minister, Dr Zoran Djindjic. I really want to raise this parliament to a higher level. Now I'm asking you specifically, fellow radicals, what it would be like to go out and say that you are a black criminal association and a black criminal enterprise. What would it be like to say that your Deputy Prime Minister is a criminal Vojislav Seselj and your criminal head of the party Vojislav Seselj? I'm not gonna say that. Personally as a Serb, as a Serbian citizen, I encourage Vojislav Seselj to return from The Hague. I'll remind you, Mrs. Radeta, how happy you were when you escorted him to The Hague and bid on who would now inherit the party, and forced him to endure the hunger strike, so as not to kill him there in The Hague as soon as possible, you yourself. Now you're defending him here. Don't defend him like that, please. Do not defend Serbia in such a way, because it is really inappropriate for us to communicate in this House. I'm really going to respectfully talk about you and your president. I want him back here, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, we're tired of you winning. We want to beat him, because we have the strength to do it. Sorry, you're a charismatic loser who has nothing to look for in the race with us. But, Serbian citizens, I really promise you that the parliamentary majority has the strength to stand up to the language of arguments and the fact of the language of accumulated pride and primitiveism. When your turn comes, Mr. Todorovic, I've called before you. I can have yours, if they want, give up. So, the citizens of Serbia, the language of arguments and the fact, we will oppose the language of accumulated haughtiness and primitiveism. Serbia will not be managed by one who has a more pagan tongue, stronger muscles and better snipers, but by one who has a better quality program, one who directs such steps towards Europe towards you and one who overcomes all obstacles to Europe. It's a coalition for European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1509	Mr Tomislav Nikolic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1510	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I understand the resistance of the ruling majority to this behaviour, but just put yourself in the role of half of the Serbian citizens represented by this side here. You in all of Serbia have caused war between us. You'd like to go out to the streets now to fight each other, and you'd like to sit here and laugh and garden here. You're breaking up the established local authorities because you've been pushing your new coalition partner to tear apart a coalition with the SRS everywhere. You're challenging the courts to consider whether the re-elected judges who judge in some disputes today will be re-elected. You brutally and blatantly form new municipal authorities. If you like the oldest chairman, if you don't like working without him. When they do it in some other local self-government, you send the police. Now you have a police officer who's confused. He doesn't know what's going on. They all joined together to beat the representatives of the SRS. Why? That we were around somewhere with you in the election. When did you experience it from us? When we didn't tell you that you won, would you please take over? When did this happen? What local community didn't let you do that? What's wrong with you people? Will the world collapse if the citizens put together a coalition where you're not? What's going to be bad? I've now experienced this young colleague warning me what Serbia's interests are, and her president said you're such criminals that he had to eat Mr. To vote for you, and I won't do it. I want to fight for freedom and for democracy. Let him eat a gentleman who can eat Mr. and do politics. It was the cover of one daily newspaper, your president's statement. Last time, he covered his nose to vote for DOS to be in power, and today he ate Mr. What's the third time going to be? Let democracy develop, don't put it out of its root, don't stop it, don't stop it from destroying it. For eight years, I've been watching those books of yours about a better life. Eight years, the people won't wait any longer, they won't take it anymore. The European Union, of course, is the dream of every Serb, the dream of every Serbian citizen. On what terms? Let's get this straight. He can't at all, Mr. Milivoevich. He can't do it without us. Is it just the DS coming into Europe, just her sympathies coming in? What about us who want both Kosovo and Metohija to be in Europe and Serbia? What, if you killed us, you wouldn't let us keep talking here at the Assembly's pay phone, because you would at any cost. And when in Europe? When will Karadzic die? When will the young man die? When will you meet the requirements of the UN tribunal? Why are we drawing attention to the UN tribunal? It says it's a condition for that booklet of yours, a condition of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. What do you do about co-operation with The Hague tribunal? To which Serbian citizen you helped defend himself there, so let him prove, as you say, his innocence, as if innocence in courts were proven. You're acting like they're citizens of another country. You can't wait for them to be convicted, you can't wait for them to be removed. As you speak of the hunger strike, is there anything more sacred than a man giving his life in battle for his ideals? What were we supposed to do? We didn't answer him, we didn't persuade him, it was his personal choice. Who was arguing at the airport? You left him these many children in Belgrade with no parents. Who was arguing about taking over the party? How can you not be ashamed? You had a fight. Two days after Djindjic's death, the DS ministers kissed here when a new government was elected. You didn't care if it was supposed to be in the pie, in peace to part. No, you were squirming around here. We're not worse people than you. Let the citizens decide who's better. What would you like? When there aren't enough coalition partners, then you've bought people out of other political parties. There is no party that has remained overall in the term in which it was elected with the number of MPs that you have not kidnapped at least one, two, three, as much as you need. There's no group of MPs that didn't have to make money to run out of the O.R. and go back to the O.R. when they needed it. The rest just radicals. We didn't get together. You kidnapped us, too. (President: Time. Here, I'm done. Where are those people leaving the radicals now? They're not going down the street. Who'd they sell themselves for? For you, for your cements, for your sugars, for your sale of NIS, the Elektroprivred. Here's this Djelic. Two years ago, the concession, today it says - stealing is a concession. Been to the government and then and now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1511	The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, in the light of the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking the government a question and I'm looking for an answer. Since the General Declaration of the Rights of the Man in Article 8 provides that everyone has the right to protect him effectively from the part of the violation of the fundamental rights recognised by the Constitution or by the laws, this issue is closely related to the fundamental freedoms of every citizen, and in this regard I ask the question of what has the Government done from the moment of co-operation with The Hague tribunal to today? Has the government of the Republic of Serbia given any protection to any Serb? On the other hand, you are aware that today, on several occasions, the MPs of the SRS pointed out that the life of Professor Vojislav Seselj was at risk in the criminal UN tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, you know how they were delivered, both military and political leadership of the Republic of Serbia. To remind you that Slobodan Milosevic was killed in The Hague. How about I ask the government why she didn't bury Slobodan Milosevic where he was supposed to be buried? Should I ask the Socialists now whether Slobodan Milosevic will leave where he is buried or not? Since I am on the defence team of Professor Vojislav Seselj, I have a number of facts relating to the indictments written in Belgrade. In Belgrade, the first, second, third and changed fourth indictments against Professor Vojislav Seselj for alleged war crimes committed were filed. The Hague tribunal and its accomplices from the ruling furniture in the Republic of Serbia have thus far been unable to find any relevant evidence that Vojislav Seselj has committed a common offence, not a crime, especially any war crime. (President: Time, Mr. Jojic. ) Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS warns the public, draws attention to The Hague tribunal, since there is no material evidence, Professor Vojislav Seselj must be released. Since they are in a difficult situation, they are putting pressure on witnesses, even arresting witnesses who have been proposed and who have pleaded to be witnesses to the defense of Professor Vojislav Seselj. This in international law and in no state has been recorded that any court arrests witnesses and witnesses to the defense. You see, our government of the SRS and the expert team does not provide enough information that we are looking for, and it is up to the government to provide all the information we are looking for to the expert team for the defense of Professor Vojislav Seselj, as much evidence, that way and in that respect, whether it is classified, top secret or state secrets. They have to give us, but we don't get time and that's why I'm asking the government -- when is he going to respect the Co-operation Act with the UN tribunal and make the citizens equal?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1513	And this stenogram will be delivered to the government's office for co-operation with The Hague tribunal. The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1514	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really ask you, it is legitimate to present your political wishes, but I ask you not to abuse the Milosevic family or the late Slobodan Milosevic for your political purposes. Slobodan Milosevic is buried in the courtyard of his family's house at the request of the family. The Hague episode, which is very painful for the entire Serbian people, is something we've been dealing with all these years. As you know, the only politician, president of the country before, who was extradited to The Hague tribunal against the Constitution of the SRJ then and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, was just Slobodan Milosevic. After that, the Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal was passed. What's your right, I don't want in any way to get into it. All of our citizens who are in front of The Hague tribunal deserve all the support of the state authorities, including Mr Seselj, and those who have been extradited or voluntarily left there deserve all the support and legal assistance, as well as their families, and these Governments of the Republic of Serbia. But I ask you not to abuse the name Slobodan Milosevic, because you have already taken political profits in his name.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1515	Mr. Mirko Munjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1516	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to change the wolf's hair, but never, you show it to numerous examples throughout Serbia. I'll just say one example from my environment. Dear People's MPs, I'm sure it's really very few of you who've never heard of the banjski spa Gornja Trepca, which is 18 kilometers away from Cačka. This spa resort, once called "The Atomic Bath", according to the really healing properties of the water it has, someone now wants to sell to a tycoon, it's known, there's an indication, it's also known who wants to sell to, and who needs to be sold to. Dear citizens, just to remind you that in Gornji Trepča patients are treated with many diseases, chronic rheumatism, Bahterev's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, degenerative rheumatism. Banish conditions and healing water greatly favour neurologic and neuropsychiatric patients with multiple sclerosis, cerebral paralysis, Parkinson’s disease, depression, neurosis, post-traumatic conditions, as well as cardiovascular disease. Water temperature from 27 to 30 degrees helps greatly and has a beneficial effect on the heart and blood vessels, blood pressure regulation, and it is recommended that patients drink 1.5-2 liters of this water daily. There's a guy who wants to sell a bathroom like that. There are strong indications that in addition to wanting to sell the spa, the basic activity of the spa will also change. Instead of treating patients, which is the basic activity of this Banjska spa, someone wants to change this activity and deal with bottled and sold water. It's also a waste of the fact that no property-legal relations have been solved in this spa. Since 1908, Banja was owned by Orthodox monastery Vujan, so that communists, by decision of the National Committee of the FNRJ, would transfer this spa to local self-government. So, what the communists and what the Turks haven't done, they want to do with this power. He wants to sell this spa spa to some tycoon and change its performance. So, through the tycoon and the authorities are not sacred or SPC, nor its monasteries, absolutely nothing. That's why I'm asking you a question per article 225. and 226. Rules of Procedure - why the procedure for the privatisation process for the sale of Banja Gornja Trepca was launched, despite the fact that it was removed from the list for sale and notification of the Restitution Directorate to conduct the settlement procedure between the SPC and the current user. Two, why were the conditions first accepted, so the conditions in the section relating to the change in performance, which was executed at five years of age, were changed. We from the SRS remain to, with the help of the Serbian citizens, disclose and report to the competent authorities and publicly stamp all your criminal and mob activities. And when Serbian radicals take full responsibility for the political, social and other developments in this country, Serbian citizens will see fair and responsible authority working.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1517	Mr. Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, advertise the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Section 1, where he says - MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all MPs are required to respect dignity. The dignity of the National Assembly is preserved by statements from this pay phone, and the dignity of the congregation is preserved by both appearance and dress. I think there's a rulebook in the National Assembly that's been brought in and has to be followed by journalists who come here, so a journalist who wears sandals instead of shoes can't get into parliament. At the same time, we MPs of the SRS honor disrespect the dignity of the National Assembly because we appear in the Rules of Procedure, MPs who come bare-bellies here. I ask the President of the National Assembly to take account of this part of the Rules of Procedure, because it is extremely rude. We were bringing Mladjan Dinkic back from here when he came to the jeans, and for this pay phone, MPs come out of a political party dressed as they go to the beach. Once we move to the 1st point of the agenda, to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, then we will have to discuss several members of this agreement that we are always referring to through the invitation to the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia are preparing political murder at The Hague right now, the murder of Vojislav Seselj, the president of the SRS, because they couldn't legally, politically, or morally identify him, and they're trying this way -- the same Vojislav your mob prime minister sent to The Hague, in agreement with Karl del Ponte. He says, read the book, take Seselj to The Hague, and don't bring him back. You're trying not to bring him back today. That would be the thirteenth murder. The 12th was the late Slobodan Milosevic, God rest his soul. The Serbian Radical Party treated the death, the victim, and the murder with complete piety. I won't, Mr. Ruzic, say anything about who was blowing balloons at the time, but don't pay any respects to the SRS regarding Slobodan Milosevic. It's an easy country for him, and you're doing what you think you're doing. (President: Time. ) I conclude, as far as Serbia, the state of Serbia's obligations are concerned, according to those delivered to The Hague tribunal, this state must finally return to force that law that your yellow Constitutional Court annulled to help UN war crimes indictees and to help families endure the torture until 2008. If God does, Russia, as it has announced, votes, or veto the extension of the UN tribunal's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-18-0.u1519	Thank you. I find there is no will for a significant number of MPs to work on the agenda and therefore interrupt the session and continue Monday at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record, I find that the sittings are attended by 144 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 106 MPs are present in the hall. There are conditions for starting work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mladen Grujic, Radojko Obradovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. We're continuing our work. We move to the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CONSERVATION OF THE SSTabilisATION OF ASSOCIATION AND THE TRANSITION OF TRADE AND TRADE CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (Common Single Search) By the Rules of Procedure, please.
