ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9827	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. I wanted to let you know and remind you that the session of the Privatisation Committee will be in the blue salon at 10:30. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 103 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that Mrs. Milica Radovic is justifiably absent. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for today's session to be attended by Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutions (Substance in Details) Before we move on to amendments, Mrs Radeta asked for a word, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I consider the obligation of the MPs and this Parliament to explain to the citizens of Serbia who accepted the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija almost all day yesterday... We received a partial answer in an interview with the secretary of state at the Serbian Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija Oliver Ivanovic, who said that while intensive negotiations with UN officials were ongoing, the government was unable to move towards the preparation of the population, because it had to wait for her to get what she insisted on and be adopted in the Security Council. He also accuses the opposition of contributing to the confusion of Kosovo Serbs, as Eulex speaks of worse and knows less of him than ordinary Kosovo Serbs. Now, since Oliver Ivanovic is this smart and says that we don't know anything about Eulex, it would be good to come, but not him, but Minister Bogdanovic -- he reminds the public, Minister in the Government of Serbia, and he used to be minister in the Shiparian government -- and to explain to the citizens of Serbia and to the MPs who and what powers he gave to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, Oliver Ivanovic, Minister Bogdanovic. On what basis did they allow the Eulex mission to occupy Kosovo and Metohija? He cannot summon nor the MPs, nor the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija that they do not know enough or that they are not smart enough. We know how smart Oliver Ivanovic is, we know when he betrayed and sold the interests of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but it is unclear how Boris Tadic chose him as state secretary at the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. That we are right, unfortunately, and that the fact that the Eulex mission is deployed in Kosovo and Metohija means the occupation of the work of Serbia is also one news where Marty Ahtisaari is advertised, of course, the man is happy because... I'm sorry, I can see the time is up. Let me talk to you for a second. So Marty Ahtisaari is happy that what he predicted in his plan has already seen realisation in Kosovo and Metohija. In a conversation with reporters in Oslo -- where tomorrow and officially it should receive a prestigious recognition, it is the Nobel Peace Prize, you know that comedy -- Ahtisaari reiterated his view that Kosovo is independent and will remain that way, and also urged Serbia to accept it. The Norwegian Nobel Committee will present its award tomorrow to the former Finnish president, which was awarded to him because of his peacekeeping efforts in Namibia, Indonesia, Northern Ireland, as well as the Balkans. His plan to resolve Kosovo's final status envisioned the internationally supervised independence of the southern Serbian province, which, despite fierce opposition from Serbia, declared independence on February 17th, which has since been recognised by more than 50 states of the world, including the United States. Mr. Ivanovic, Mr. Boris Tadic, gentlemen of the government of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the assembly majority, if you think that my MPs in the SRS, and that the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija do not know what happened to them, see, Martti Ahtisaari, you have recognised the Ahtisaari plan, have recognised the occupation of the southern Serbian province, the works of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9829	Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9830	I'm referring to Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I would like to point out that you are scandalously holding a session of the National Assembly. As I address the citizens and MPs, I will have to put down the Constitution, because when I call to the Constitution, you give a warning. It has never occurred in parliamentism that the president of the National Assembly punishes an MP who reads the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Just to draw your attention to how bad you are doing, and that is: on today 1926 Nikola Pasic died, on today 1948, the United Nations declared December 10th Human Rights Days, on this day Vojislav Seselj is 2,115 days in detention of The Hague tribunal. Tonight, watch the 10:00 trial to hear Serbia defend itself, defending Serbia. Not with six anonymous and hiding the points brought, but honestly, with the heart and in all possible ways, to know first and foremost the truth. How badly this session is being run is enough to remind you that yesterday a lady from the Democratic Party came out here and said - we need to have a dialogue. No one gave her a warning. We've been looking for this dialogue for six months; we've proposed resolutions, we've negotiated, we've been trying to find some common points and start that dialogue. He came out, and he said, "What are you offering?" Give me the agenda point so you can hear what's being offered. That's the malfeasance. It's this demonstration of primitive, prosaclud and anti-civilization behavior of yellow. Citizens, just so you know, it's those who vote from Bodrum. That affair hasn't been resolved yet. They're the ones who vote from Thessaloniki. That affair is resolved. That man was making progress, you know, in the city of Novi Sad. There is a criterion that if you do a little bit more of it, then you'll become more loyal to the principles of the Democratic Party, and that's – pick up what you get. Anticivilization behavior, when several thousand people are arrested overnight. Anti-civilization behavior, when the banks go out, when our economy goes out. You know, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if this game and this kind of scandalous leadership of the National Assembly don't end, then we're going to have a situation yesterday, where someone pleaded for us for some solidarity, the state is in crisis. As for the SRS, we offer you this solidarity. That's the coalition with the DS: you steal, and we arrest you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9831	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Milentievich has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9832	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at first I will say that it is not good that the Government did not accept the amendment that I have submitted, but well. I have submitted an amendment to Article 7(2), which deletes the words "Kosovo Mitrovica" and adds item 4) which reads: "The Office of the Higher Violent Court of Kosovo Mitrovica for the AP Kosovo and Metohija". The reason for this amendment is to return this institution to the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, because apparently the government is withdrawing this institution from the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. She did the same with the economic court for the AP Kosovo and Metohija territory. Both of these institutions, the economic court and senior criminal court, have been transferred to Nis for the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija. A characteristic explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia is that it is withdrawing an institution from the southern Serbian province: the government does not accept the amendment for the reason it considers that a more comprehensive solution is that the division of the higher criminal court in Nis is also responsible for the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. Please, what kind of celery is that? Is this a radical move when it comes to all courts and courts' seats in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? I can understand the justification for some courts to be put out, it's quite said, but I can't understand the withdrawal of the judiciary institution from Kosovo and Metohija. I think it's a very bad message for us Serbs living in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. That's what I was talking about when I discussed the amendment that applied to the withdrawal of the Court of Commerce, and now I wouldn't talk about it anymore. That's when I gave you enough reasons. The explanation I gave for the economic court also applies to the higher criminal court. To all those living in Kosovo and Metohija, who recognise the Republic of Serbia and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, you have abolished the right to have their courts on AP KIM territory. It is good that yesterday's debate on this law was also discussed by my opposition colleagues, it is very good, because yesterday there was some argument in relation to what was made in yesterday's afternoon debate, and in the follow-up of the afternoon, which is about not to list much, the finding that the opposition, speaking about the problems in Kosovo and Metohija, is gaining political capital, that the opposition that represents these problems is playing with the feelings of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I have to ask one question, since such findings were made yesterday. Is political capital the fact that the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija has not held a single session since the constitution of the Republika Srpska Assembly, and the majority of the Committee makes up the ruling coalition? Is the opposition's political capital that no discussion on the problem in Kosovo and Metohija was held in half a year of the work of this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which had been stalling all negotiators for two or three months in talks to agree on the resolution, when she asked for a general national political consensus, which is to accept the Eulex mission? Since the entire right-hand side was against such a resolution, that the left-hand side did not have a majority for such a resolution because for it, I remember perfectly well, they had no intention of voting the MPs of the minority coalition, they had no intention of voting either for my colleagues from the Vojvodina League of Democrats, it was withdrawn. So you didn't have 126 MPs for that resolution, that's a fact. On the other hand, MPs of the then DSS-NS coalition and the Serbian Radical Party, 108 MPs, asked for a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija to be placed on the agenda. It also asked for the Liberal Democratic Party to include a resolution on Kosovo. Most of the votes on this left have both been rejected. Does such a relationship have a ruling coalition towards Kosovo and Metohija and is that political capital, Mr Micunovic, when it comes to these arguments? Is the political capital of the Community Assembly the municipalities of AP Kosovo and Metohija, which responds to the illegal and illegal declaration of the independent Republic of Kosovo? We Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija received support from the President of the Republic, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and during that time none of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia attended the five held sessions of the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija. Was it not normal for someone to attend and to explain to the representatives representing Serbs and all those who respect the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija yesterday? Is the opposition's political capital to ignore the signatures and petitions of 75,000 Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, and that, apart from about two rows in some media, no publicity is given to the petition? Gentlemen, 75,000 signatures were put on that petition. Whether it is correct or not, time will judge, but it is worth the attention of 75,000 Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. Are the political capital secret negotiations that someone was conducting on the Eulex mission? Who ran the secret negotiations, which platform did he have in negotiations for the Eulex mission? What is the content of the agreement between Belgrade - Ban Ki Moon? What came as a translation from UNMIK does not say what has been made public as a political victory. God forbid this isn't right, but how can I believe it's not right when we MPs don't have the content of this agreement? Is it political capital that the government of the Republic of Serbia withdraws individual institutions from the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija? Is the opposition's political capital that in the 2009 draft budget the government of the Republic of Serbia has cut the budget for Kosovo and Metohija, and according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the budget for the territory of Vojvodina (I have no objection) is 7%? Is the political capital sorry for this left side for the burning checkpoints burned by Serbs revolutionized by self-proclaiming an independent republic of Kosovo, and that neither from the EU nor from the UN has responded to it? Finally, yesterday's deployment of the Eulex mission is under the command of the European Union, from Brussels, and it is a direct support for independent Kosovo, which is not hiding nearly one EU official. That's why it would be good for you who have accepted a six-point deal and for the Eulex mission to call the Eulex mission a real name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9833	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Mrs. Radeta, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, it seems we have no one to address, because a representative of the Government does not want to hear the arguments that we MPs have been making here in Parliament for days, which are heard in public every day, particularly in the professional public. The media are overwhelmed by statements, fears by individual judges, judicial associations, the Society of Judges, the Supreme Court of Serbia, all frightened by what awaits them by this so-called. a set of judicial laws. We are told here that this is some of the most urgent business possible, that reform in the judiciary will happen when these laws are passed, and they only take effect in more than a year or 1 January 2010. God forbid they ever come into force and we believe, really, and they won't, because these laws don't get anything positive in the area of justice. We get a lot of new cancellations, a lot of problems, i.e. citizens in small towns will have a lot of problems; in order to achieve some of their rights in competent courts will be exposed to additional costs, travel, waste of time. Judges, prosecutors, court administration employees will be out of work, Serbia will have to allocate some new funds to build and expand courts' buildings in the seats where these courts are planned. So, a lot, a lot of problems, we'll talk about it more according to the next amendments. But what is really painful in this bill's proposal, after what happened yesterday at KIM, after the deployment of the Eulex mission, everything seems to me that this whole set of laws has been made to actually get the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija through these laws and that's the only reason why you're in such a hurry to adopt these laws. The amendment submitted by counterpart Milentijevic refers to Article 7 paragraph 1(2). Article 7 speaks of the departments of the higher criminal court and says that the department in Nis is intended for the area of criminal courts in Vranja, Zajecar, Leskovac, Kosovo Mitrovica, Negotina, Nis, Pirota, Presevo and Prokuplje. Of course this is completely pointless, out of your mind. Imagine, senior court of law. It's not an appeal court, it's not a Supreme Court, it's a senior criminal court, and it includes seven-eight municipalities in Nis, so I don't waste my time counting it. Of course this whole member and the complete network of all, especially these infractions, courts are something that no one in this room can say any positive word. What's scariest about this is that Kosovo Mitrovica is also a competent department in Nis. Coli Milentijevic suggested erasing it, adding a new stance that would provide for Kosovo's higher misdemeanor court to be held for the Kosovo and Metohija areas. The government says it can't do that, what our courts in Kosovo and Metohija are going to do; the amendment is not accepted for the reason some smart-ass in the government thinks a more comprehensive solution is that the division of the higher criminal court in Nis is also responsible for the area of the Kosovo Mitrovica criminal court. This mockery of the MPs, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is indeed inappropriate to any government, even if it was the government of Boris Tadic. What does that mean? The government thinks it's more celery? The government has to convince us. It's really pointless for him to just say it's more celery or not celery. The government has not tried, not to convince us, nor has it tried to convince us that it is more celery, what it really means in the lives of all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, but above all Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, because Serbs are in the highest number of collective centres, because Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija cannot return there and the state of Serbia does not care about it, but even deeper pushes them into the abyss and, of course, by officialising the Eulex mission, it actually officialises the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija. I was just reading a part of this BBC agency news, titled "We'll explain Eulex" and then said, "The European Union's Eulex mission started working in Kosovo after several months of delaying the caused dilemmas and disputes over its mandate." I ask you, gentlemen, from the ruling coalition, I ask Boris Tadic and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia: who removed these dilemmas; how are these dilemmas removed; how are the dilemmas that apparently existed and exist among Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and among all patriots in Serbia? He spoke of 75,000 or 77,000 signatures, it doesn't matter how many, but they are related to a petition, which you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, said yesterday that you received. No one slows down, it was also accepted in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and a criminal charges were received against Mladjan Dinkic, so she is not there. We're asking what's done about it. You told us yesterday that you put on the agenda a motion for a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, a proposal of 108 MPs of the SRS, the DSS and the NS. How did you put it on the agenda? Do you think we're idiots? You've put on the agenda in agreement with the assembly majority to vote that this is not going by emergency procedure. Where's he in the meantime? We've been here for days to discuss important and less important things. The resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, as most significant at this time in Serbia, is not because you did not want it, because Minister Bogdanovic, now Minister of the Government of Serbia, and formerly minister in the Shiptar government, did not want to communicate with MPs and MPs. He made that communication a certain way. Here's how, I'll remind you briefly: in all the media, he said he would speak individually to representatives of the parliamentary groups, because it was not possible to talk to the entire opposition, so he offered us some piece of paper that should represent a resolution, on which Eulexa does not have any clues, which is a general story that solves nothing and makes no commitment. When we put in individual remarks, both the SRS MPs, both the NS and the DSS, the minister had to travel somewhere, so he couldn't see the MPs for five or six days and said he would report afterwards. He never answered again, never again came to speak to representatives of parliamentary groups because we all made it clear that the resolution must say that EULEX cannot and must not be moved to Kosovo and Metohija territory. So, even then, you all knew, and you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and all your fellow Members in the congregation's majority, about Boris and the government not to talk, you all knew what you were planning. Now you're all being naive and trying to explain to the citizens of Serbia and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija that it's wonderful and wonderful that they received the Eulex mission, or that part of Serbia is occupied. Just as you're trying to explain to us that the most wonderful thing in the world is this economic crisis in the world, because it will have a positive impact on Serbia, so all investors in Serbia will rush. As you're trying to explain to Serbian citizens that nobody gets fired, that nobody's hungry, that everyone's getting big salaries, that everyone's getting big pensions, like you're telling them about someone else. The people know how they live and how they barely make ends meet and how on their backs is the worst of all governments in Serbia's recent history. All the citizens of Serbia know that. Let us return to this amendment, to the Eulex question, to the issue of Resolution 1244 and to the question of those who claimed yesterday that Eulex is something that is legal, to see when (maybe we have slept through a winter dream so we are not in progress) in the Security Council what is provided for in point 5) of Resolution 1244, adopted by the Security Council at its 4011th meeting, on 10 June 1999, where it writes – it is decided that in Kosovo, under the auspices of the UN, the deployment of international civilian and security forces with appropriate equipment and necessary staff and welcomes the consent of the SRJ with such presence. Annex 2 to UN Security Council Resolution 1 item 3 stands out - the deployment in Kosovo, under UN-sponsored, effective international civilian and security presence, capable of guaranteeing the achievement of common objectives, which will work if decided in accordance with Chapter 7. Command. When, ladies and gentlemen, the United Nations and the United Nations Security Council changed Revolution 1244? Do you letters from Ban Ki Moon in any correspondence with Vuk Jeremic, or do I not know who, consider the UN Security Council's decisions? We don't think so. We think and, unfortunately, we must say to the citizens of Serbia and Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija that the government of the Republic of Serbia has betrayed them, that the president of Serbia has betrayed them, that they have delivered them to the mercy and mercy of those who have recognised independent Kosovo. That's, unfortunately, true. You can frown, mumble and react. You've always done so when we had the strength to tell the citizens what the facts are, what they are, but in a very short time, you yourself became aware of it, although I believe you are now aware. You think – we have removed one concern from the door, we will convince citizens, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija that EULEX is the best thing for them, and that there will not be anyone there to apply these regulations, nor anyone to apply them to, it is not your concern. The deployment of about 1,400 international officials, police officers, prosecutors, judges and customs officers has begun, the agency news said, without problems throughout Kosovo. So, it's not about AP Kosovo and Metohija, it's about Kosovo. That's exactly what we're trying to tell you. What we heard yesterday, which was also agency news, is that the representatives of the Eulex mission, I apologize for the time, I quickly end up, that the representatives of the Eulex, the judges, will apply the Ship's laws, will apply the Ship's Constitution. It's all waiting for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. No wonder you didn't accept this amendment. You know you don't need a senior court for violations in Kosovo and Metohija, because it will be done under the Shiptar laws, not by the laws passed in this House. There, the judges will be fired, instead of being organized and the government has allocated funds to every Serb, every family living in Kosovo and Metohija to pay on behalf of earnings, on behalf of supporting the family a certain amount to live with even if they do not work and are not employed. The preservation of Kosovo and the Metohija for Serbia must not and cannot be expensive. Em's people are under occupation, they have nothing to live on. You think you've won a great victory. Unfortunately, part of Serbia is under occupation thanks to Boris Tadic and his authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9835	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I am reporting on the basis of Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. As you've heard from Mr. Krasic, today is International Human Rights Day. I would like to ask the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Minister as far as it came in a pre-crisis procedure that was launched in the process of determining the circumstances of trade with the authorities of the Serbs in northern Albania and Kosovo and Metohija in the period since 1999, which is... Like when she wrote that on the basis of a request by Zoran Djindjic and then the Dossovic authorities, the indictment against our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who has been in prison for six years in the Hague case. Also in the book, she announced that she has knowledge of the trade in Serb authorities from Kosovo and Metohija. That is what I am asking you, i.e. I am asking the Minister of Resolution and Government, because it is approaching the day when, as representatives of the state of Serbia, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in front of the rapporteur of this Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly, Diko Marti, we will present, if we have such notices by the state of Serbia, the relevant arguments in favour of this. You know, a few days ago, a colleague of Lidija Vukicevic said that the issue was raised by Mr Simo Spasic and representatives of the Association of Families of Missing Serbs in the Kosovo and Metohija areas. It is really very important not only that we who represent the state in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have information about what the state has done in a pre-crisis procedure, but that every MP has this information. If it is launched – that is what the villain Thaci denied in the show "Kajrist" B 92, you know very well and you are familiar with his statements that these are alleged inventions that the states of Serbia that Karle del Ponte – let the state authorities appear and let them tell us where they came from in the investigation. Otherwise, we will not be able to represent the interests of those Serbs' families who justifiably suspect that their loved ones have been kidnapped and that the Cypriots have also committed additional crimes by trading to the human organs of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Since today is the International Day of Human Rights, and these questions will not be addressed so-called. NGOs who are instructed to spread anti-Serb hysteria in Serbia, such as Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, then have to ask a question: will these characters be sued by "Partizan" who beat "Split", "Star" who beat "Zadar", the FMP that beat "Zagreb" and "Hemofarm", who beat "Olympic" in Ljubljana, and all that just one weekend? You'll admit, it's a big crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9837	Anyone else want a word by amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure? I'm not sure who signed up first. National MP Vladan Jeremic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I will exercise my right to, in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, I request an explanation from the President of Parliament, as well as from the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the President of the Republic, concerning the official statement by state official Verica Barac, President of the Anti-Corruption Council, given to the weekly "NIN", if I am not mistaken, as well as by the newspaper "Kurir", where Mrs Barac says, I paraphrasise - I would recognise Kosovo and withdraw all charges and charges against neighbours. She adds, however, that it is, for God's sake, her personal position, but that would make the government one day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, she is the government, and we can interpret this statement as an official position in the form of a test balloon being released in public. Let go, therefore, of the story of the purpose of the Eulex mission, it is nothing more than the occupation of part of Serbia's territory. The Serbian Radical Party will request the removal of Verice Barac and indicate that such acts by state officials are unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9839	The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, reporting by members of 225 and 226. It's a matter of the Justice Department. Namely, in the period from June to September 2003, newly formed power, mainly from the lines of yellow orientation, contrary to law and unauthorized, in the municipality of Vozdovac in Belgrade, decided to tear down a hundred small-scale buildings grouped on the Blue Bridge site, which was also done with the help of the Belgrade executive structure, with the help of the late chairman of the Bogdanovic Executive Board and his deputy, Ljubomir Angelkovic. First, municipal construction and municipal inspectors, regardless of jurisdiction, made solutions to the destruction of all hundreds of buildings in that location. With the assistance of the cordon to the teeth of the armed police, special brigades from Belgrade, Novi Sad and other towns of Serbia, all hundreds of facilities of about 10,000 square meters of business space were destroyed without an orderly administrative procedure. A 15m-euro damage has been done today, and about 500 workers are out of work, property-free property owners and free of employment, with unpaid taxes and unpaid loans. Today, instead of a prestigious and famous trading location, lovers of pets walk along with stray dogs in a deserted area. Meanwhile, the stress has left seven victims dead, about 20 of them suffering from cancer or having a heart attack or stroke. Most owners do not work, there are no basic conditions for survival and jobs are found throughout Serbia and across the continents of the world. The insurgency owners, who know their facilities have been torn down because of their whims and proof that the fraud was carried out by the general plan until 2021 for Belgrade, have failed to run administrative procedures for the area, where first-degree authorities have already made fictitious solutions to bring down objects that were collapsed since 2003. The second-degree body, instead of acting by law, shall act on a party's orderly basis to the first-degree body and shall confirm the solutions of the first-degree body. The people in charge of the administrative procedure are chicanned, they have no means, because as good citizens, they suffer psychologically because they are not legally and physically able to destroy the same object several times, which does not exist. The Belgrade District Court in administrative disputes annuls the city administration's solutions, this administration annuls the Vozdovac municipal administration's solution, and then the Vozdovac administration again makes solutions in the same text as before, only to change the date of decision-making and the whole cycle begins over and over again, because the Belgrade District Court has no power (or has been instructed not to do so) and none of the 50 decisions taken in continuity, whether for the same or different citizens, will be measured to decide. Because in that case, the people who were damaged would be compensated because their facility was destroyed by an incompetent authority. About seven administrative procedures and about five administrative disputes are under way. The executive board of the municipality of Vozdovac, chaired by Jessenko Lazovic, also made a decision without legal coverage. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, it's been six years since anything was solved about these facilities. A question for the justice ministry: why are the processes stalling, constantly delaying and when will it end? When will the owners of the destroyed objects, whose lives and lives of their families, be brought into a very unpredictable position, receive the final answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9841	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I support the amendment of MP Milentijevic Vladimir, or the entire New Serbia parliamentary group. Let me explain and simplify a little bit, so the citizens of the major amendments understand what this is all about. As far as I understand it, MP Milentijevic Vladimir has requested that the seat of the higher criminal court be in Kosovo Mitrovica, not, as provided by law, to be in Nis. When I considered it a little bit better (not every MP can analyze every amendment) I wondered, like any ordinary citizen, if this is possible, is it possible that someone did not accept this. We would have to in this Kosovo Mitrovica wall the building in 24 hours and say "this is a higher misdemeanor court" to show someone that it is the state of Serbia, not to adhere strictly to certain rules and laws. But there was no hearing for Serbs in Kosovo, especially in northern Kosovo at the moment I speak. Or someone really thinks that Eulex is part of Ahtisaari's plan, that it's all in the package and why we should bring it in when Eulex has already taken effect. Regarding how our fellow citizens in Kosovo and Metohija are treated, and especially Serbs, I can only give an example. Yesterday, a colleague from the Democratic Party came out, I don't know if she was present here, and she talked about water supply in northern Kosovo, completely uninformed, and I got the impression she doesn't even live in Kosovo and Metohija. Here, you are, great. I wanted to, I said brotherly, we met at a restaurant, give you all the papers, see what's true. You said you weren't interested. I have a witness, the former minister wanted to explain. That's why I'm forced to go out for a pay phone to explain. Here's the thing. The ministry, Minister Velimir Ilic fought for more than two years (never has money in the government, any government, and that is understandable) to realise the system of water supply in northern Kosovo, means Zvecan, Kosovo Mitrovica, Zubin Potok. Then there was the conclusion that it could only be done with foreign loans. Here are the documents, available to every MP who asks for them, so you, colleagues, will see what this is all about. The government told these three municipalities that they can be owed 8.5m euros under various laws. The public company Ibar wrote that letter to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Everyone intervened, your ministers, all agreed to it, only you were not informed. You don't know what's going on in your government, colleague. The minister continued, Minister Milutin Mrkonjic writes to the finance ministry, asking for all of this, continued to do what Velimir Ilic did, with the honour of Mrkonjic, intervened Bozidar Djelic. Papers, colleagues, verifiable, that's what I wanted to tell you, so I wouldn't take these three or four minutes today. Djelic writes and says: information is accepted about the conditions and the way in which the Republic of Serbia's guarantee is given in connection with a project to build a water supply system for Kosovo Mitrovica - north, Zvecana and Zubino Potok, which is an integral part of this conclusion. This is the government's conclusion of 7 September 2007, a respected colleague. No one was contentious, nor did Bozidar Djelic, nor Minister Ilic, nor Minister Mrkonjic. Furthermore, the final document, which you didn't know about, I thought you were informed: Mirjana Jovasevic, head of the cabinet of Prime Minister Cvetkovic, answers Djelic, who writes to the Prime Minister – the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mirko Cvetkovic, was sent a letter to the JKP "Vodovod Ibar" from Kosovo Mitrovica, which outlines the proposal from the section of the authority of the title authority. In addition, I'm delivering the subject and memo to you under further jurisdiction. That's what's happening now. Do you know who the Prime Minister is now? Do you know who the Minister of Infrastructure is? Have you heard of Bozidar Djelic? He's from your client, my colleague. "Please inform the correspondent and the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia of the measures taken. "You have asked here for order, since you saw that former minister and president of New Serbia Velimir Ilic is there. And since you don't have the arguments, let's throw something in and say something about a pay phone. Is there anything more clear to you now? That's what I wanted to tell you about. Furthermore, Serbs from Kosovo are now begging us, as foreign banks and loans have to enter the budget, the item was removed from the budget. Just get it, and it'll end at two, and it seems to me that today, Vice President, some agreement to work very constructively here, and you hear very well that they're getting three or four MPs and you don't intervene. I didn't say anything offensive. Please warn them or I'll get off this pay phone. (President: Keep going.) ) Therefore, NS MPs, i.e. the NS parliamentary group, will submit an amendment to enter into the budget guarantees for the eight and a half million euros, as much as they are able, or as much as can be owed by law, to the three municipalities and to make that waterway. Guys, let's not argue over bread and water. If there's something to be saved on, I've been in the ruling coalition until yesterday, I know what this pain is, I need to take this off, I need everyone, but there can't be a difference between us around water, especially not politicizing behind a pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9843	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9844	Madam Chairman, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, my amendment reads in Article 7(1). The proposal for Law point 3 is amended and reads as follows: "The Department of Novi Sad, for the area of infringement courts in Backo Palanca, Backo Topoli, Vienna, Vrsac, Zrenjanin, Indjija, Kikindi, Novi Sad, Pancheva, Ruma, Senti, Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica and Subotica". So this amendment continues with the amendment that I have submitted to Article 2. The draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors aims to define the area of work of the senior court in Novi Sad, i.e. to determine where the criminal courts in Bačka Topoli and Indjia will belong. Since the legislator, to my satisfaction and to the pleasure of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and, most importantly, to the satisfaction of the citizens of the Indji municipalities, Stara Paz, Backo Topola and Mali Ijoš, has accepted my amendment to Article 2 of this Law, I think it is perfectly normal to define both these areas of work and I understand that this amendment will also be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9845	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking about an amendment to Article 7 tabled by counterpart Radovan Radovanovic, who briefly tried to convince the assembly majority here, since we cannot get a representative of the government to adopt this amendment. I would like to remind you that the entire article 7 refers to the departments of the high court and that, in paragraph 1 of this law, it is foreseen that the division of the higher court in Novi Sad will be for the area of criminal courts in Backo Palanca, Vienna, Vrsac, Zrenjanin, Kikindi, Novi Sad, Pancheva, Rumi, Senti, Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica and Subotica. It's covered here, I didn't exactly count, but at least four or five administrative districts. It's really amazing, as if a senior criminal court is some kind of supreme court, so let's now cover as many municipalities as possible, as many cities, even administrative districts. counterpart Radovan Radovanovic proposed his amendment to abandon Backo Topol and Indji from this point 3. As he explained, this amendment is directly related to an amendment requiring the establishment of two more infringement courts, so that it itself is imposed as a legal necessity when the said amendment is adopted. So, the colleague believes that this should leave out the courts in Backo Topoli and Indjia. Believe me, it wouldn't be too much if this or some other amendment (here, we have the next amendment to this same point) all of these places were divided so that everyone has more criminal courts, or departments of a higher criminal court. In an explanation that we received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia – I could hardly find it, since this is an explanation for not accepting the amendments of Dujović Saša, and in the meantime there was a reason for the amendment of Vladimir Milentijevic, so Milovan Radovanovic, so somehow, returning back, I came to the reasoning that the government is calling on -- the government says it does not accept the amendment because amendments that are not proposed to increase the number of infringements are not accepted. Gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's the thing, that's why there are 19 members of the code 122 amendments. The government has accepted 13 amendments. Of course, I don't want to talk about now that the amendments are accepted because I don't want to compare community seats and say why he can't do it here, and we don't think he can do it anywhere, but I'm going to ask why he can't do it here. I am also asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia which were criteria for establishing such a network of courts and public prosecutors, and the new issue is – what were the criteria when the amendments were adopted. It is truly amazing that the government, without any valid explanation, except what it says, accepts the amendment, with an explanation given by amendment, acceptance, and, on the other hand, the amendment does not accept. Obviously, they weren't criteria. I asked my colleagues here from the Democratic Party, as their vote depends on the good work whether this law is passed or not, as it happened to adopt Srdjan Milivojevic's and Nenad Konstantinovic's amendments without the adoption of Vlatko Ratkovic's amendment. Is this the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards former opponents and those who are only members of the DS, it is a question for the main committee, where it has threatened and where citizens are instructed to keep their jobs. I don't know if that Mr. President of the DS, when he said "save your jobs", meant the judges, whether he meant the public prosecutors, whether he meant the employees of the judicial administration, or whether he meant only the officials of the Democratic Party. It is truly amazing that, with such an unmistakable explanation, you do not accept the amendment and that if this law is passed, it will remain a secret forever to whom in the Government of the Republic of Serbia it has come to mind to build such a network of courts and public prosecutors. We continue to appeal, and therefore we persistently explain these amendments in order to reach the minds of the MPs who will vote for this law in the day of voting. In particular, I address colleagues who have submitted amendments to this law and ask them if they will vote in favour of the law in the day of voting, even if their amendment is not accepted? If they do so, then the question is why they deceived the citizens of Serbia, why they deceived their fellow citizens in the places where they came from, why they told them on the ground that they were going to fight and that they were trying to keep the courts' networks the way they are now, because it's definitely the best solution now, and that's what 122 amendments of the MPs say, so also the citizens of the field, that's what legal profession says. That only won't be recognised by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why the government's stuck to a network like this is really unclear. You know, if we had some explanation, with some reasons we might not understand, but that at least the reasons we can talk about are, but, no, we have an explanation in one sentence and then for the next 20-25 amendments -- like for that amendment, like that one, and you have to go back seven pages to find that explanation to figure out why the government has the same view of the territorial distribution of courts in the South Baška District and the Rasin County, let's say. But it's impossible for you to have the same reasons in every place, that's just impossible. You don't really have any reason, you've plotted, "fixed" in your head, I mean the government, that it has to be this way, that you see some epochal shifts in the area of justice, and you know that there's nothing there. In fact, this law and that law on judges, that famous lustration that you stopped talking about, you want to build a network of courts and the composition of judges to serve the government of the Republic of Serbia and the tycoons that made that government. It cannot be in the interest of Serbian citizens. It would really be good for MPs to take care of their voters, citizens, citizens' interests. None of us here are of personal interest, or at least no one told the citizens in the election campaign – choose our political party because it is our interest to be in parliament or to be in government. We've all told the citizens - we'll fight for your interests. We Serbian radicals are fighting for the interests of Serbian citizens as much as possible in the opposition. That's why we won't stop talking and invite you out of power, MPs who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is your legitimate right, but you have to be aware that the Government is not your boss, but you are the Government's boss. You chose the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you can tell Mrs. Malovic – it is the interest of Serbian citizens to have these amendments accepted. And if any amendment in the voting day is accepted, and no other amendments are accepted, you have done nothing. It would not be good if only some MPs agreed with fellow Members of the congregation to vote for their amendment so that they would wash their cheeks with their fellow citizens and be satisfied without the other amendments being accepted. This law cannot be passed at all, except that all amendments are accepted or, even simpler, to accept the Milice Radovic amendment. The simplest and most comprehensive, since the government is leading to use the term "cellistic", and apparently they don't even know what they mean by that, the most complete thing is that this law is withdrawn from the assembly procedure. We will not resent you, gentlemen of the government, nor have we spent so many days arguing, because we have taken advantage of the opportunity to exchange views, to make arguments, to convey citizens' views from the field, and if you accept that, whenever you accept it, it is not too late. It's all better than this law being passed. As much as Mrs. Minister talks to the public, the media and here on several occasions, as much as she convinces us that this law means some positive reform (welcome, Mrs. Malovic), this law is very bad and you know our position on it. You're wrong when you say that by applying this law no one will travel further to achieve justice, that no one will be harmed in any way. Serbian citizens will be damaged. Imagine, criminal disputes will be settled hundreds of miles away from where the crime took place. It just can't accept common sense. You make people take justice into their own hands, which none of us want, which is the worst solution. You're leaving without a job, both judges and prosecutors who are not at the will of the government. You leave a large number of court administration employees out of work, in the judicial administration, people who otherwise barely survive, whom no one has cared about in the last eight years. The judges are paid here and there to increase, and the judicial administration doesn't move. Such small wages, such jobs will be lost because someone in the Serbian government invented a network like this, or someone wrote it to you somewhere, so you just copied it, which is also not good. We really hope, we count on the conscience of our fellow Members of Parliament that in the day of voting they will not vote for this law. So we'll all show that we're responsible, that we care about the interests of the citizens. This isn't a law that can change at any moment. Many laws have been passed here, where we Serbian radicals have had objections, submitted amendments; more or less, these laws can easily change. But these laws on the network of courts, on the lustration of judges, are laws that cannot change at all times. The negative consequences of the application of these laws, if so, will be difficult in some foreseeable future to make up for. So I ask you once again, the time for the amendment has passed, and I will beg you no matter how many times I go out to talk about amendments, withdraw, Madam Minister, this law from the procedure. If you do not, then, fellow MPs, vote in the interest of Serbian citizens, which is against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9847	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Constantinović. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a minister, Mrs. Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9848	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice as the legislator of this law, I accept this amendment to the Committee on Justice and Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9849	Since the applicant has accepted, then this amendment becomes an integral part of the draft law, because the amendment is submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Milovan Radovanovic has submitted an amendment to Article 9 to add a new point 1) in Article 9(1), which reads: "The main public prosecutor's office in Alexinac, for the area of the basic court in Alexinac. "The government did not bother to give an explanation why it did not accept this amendment. All the arguments are pretty short, stereotyped, all look alike. It is said: "The government does not accept the amendment because amendments to Article 3 have not been accepted. The draft law governing the establishment, seats and area of jurisdiction of the basic courts cannot therefore accept amendments relating to the establishment, seats and area of jurisdiction of the primary public prosecutors. "I can't understand what the public prosecutors and courts have to do with it, because the public prosecutors are the state authorities doing one kind of work, the courts are the state authorities that do some other kind of work. The mechanical integration of courts and public prosecutors is not good, is not acceptable from both theoretical and normative, nor from practical aspects. On the other hand, we haven't heard from the government's representatives what's wrong with the current network of public prosecutors, so now the network needs to be changed from the root to establish some new network of public prosecutors. We haven't heard what's wrong with making it right. It's always the same story, that we have to do it that way, because it's supposed to require some European standards from us. We haven't heard from the Serbian government any serious, professional, reasoned analysis of the lack or alleged shortcomings of an existing network of public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. Now we're facing the fact that this network is going to be completely changed. We don't see what's wrong with the existing network, but that's why we're pointing out what's wrong, or what's going to be wrong in that new network of public prosecutors being formed by this law. I draw your attention again, Mrs Malovic, that you in the Ministry and Government have gone the wrong way. Instead of correcting the real problems that exist in our judiciary, you're pushing these real problems under the carpet and making up some new problems. I am responsibly saying that such a network of courts and public prosecutors will in practice cause major problems. The first thing that will happen will be the dismissal of a large number of judges, there will be an even greater dismissal of people working in the judicial administration, justice will become much more expensive for the citizens of Serbia and instead of making a reform of the best, we will make the reform worse. As a graduate lawyer – although you obviously do not care what I say, you have better things to do, to talk to your too smart MPs who here criticise the MPs of the SRS because they submit amendments to the poor proposal of the Serbian government – you should know that there are changes to the best and changes to the worse. In the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, there is one basic principle of banning reformatio and peius - changes up. As the bill comes into this assembly, all reforms are worse. This is an obvious example of the reform upstairs. It is not clear to me, Mrs Malovic, if not only the opposition in this parliament, which is politically quite natural, but also professional associations, the people who deal with the legal theory, the most important professors of law in Serbia, above all the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, the Consultative Greater European Judges (which should be the greatest authority for you as Europeans) say that what you are proposing is not good, that it deviates from constitutional norms, that it deviates from the judicial tradition that exists in Serbia, that it fully deviates from these European standards that you are supposed to advocate, then I really don't understand who pressures you, you as a minister and as a whole government, to insist on these proposals of the law. Is there a power centre that we don't know about, if there are any stakeholders, if there are any experts we haven't heard of yet, who are the only ones in Serbia who understand the epochal importance and the great importance of these draft laws? If the opposition does not understand this, if they do not understand people who have been teaching at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade for years, if they do not understand judges, if they do not understand the presidents of the courts, if they do not understand European judges and European prosecutors, then give us the names of those people who really understand what it is that you offer us in the proposals of these laws, and in the draft law on the areas of courts and public prosecutors and in all other proposals of the law of that so-called. a set of judicial laws that you have filed with the National Assembly. One of the problems facing our public prosecutors is the pressure of the executive authority on public prosecutors. It is public secret that some public prosecutors in Serbia hold individual cases in drawers because they must not activate criminal charges filed against certain political figures belonging to the ruling establishment. Thousands of criminal charges in Serbia against people from the ruling coalition who broke the law in various ways have committed a whole series of crimes. The most common are crimes of abuse of official office, bribery, etc. These things stick to the drawers, there's no request for an investigation, nothing's going on. Those who really commit crimes are left without criminal sanctions. Instead of helping the public prosecutors to cope with the pressure they are faced with, to remain truly independent, as you predict, that there is no influence from the ruling political parties, ministers, their deputies, assistants, the president of the Democratic Party's municipalities on public prosecutors, you are now on the opposite path – you will continue to leave the public prosecutors to your party friends, but you will remove public prosecutors throughout Serbia. I don't know how you think you're dealing with the problem of growing crime and corruption, if instead of helping the public prosecutor's office as an institution, you're now ending the basic public prosecutor's office in Serbia. Milovana Radovanovic's amendment is fully meaningful and established. The man suggested first that the primary court be educated in Alexinac, you refused, I don't know for what reasons. Then he suggested that the primary public prosecutor's office be educated in Aleksinac for the primary court in Alexinac, quite logically, perfectly natural. Otherwise, the same amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Lapcevic Milan, to educate the primary public prosecutor's office in Alexinac for the area of the basic court in Alexinac. We can't stand the MPs of the SRS of this amendment from the whim, we have nothing to do, so let's complicate the life of the government, let's write some amendments. If two MPs from two different parties were to propose the same amendment, if I were you I would really put my finger on the head and consider whether it makes any sense what these people are proposing, whether there is any basis, whether there is any truth in what opposition MPs are saying. I read to you here the European Commission's report on the state of Serbia. The European Commission is watching you carry out reforms. You're under constant surveillance. What do you want me to do? That's what you wanted. You think Serbia's entry into the EU is a process where the EU puts supervisors above you and now they follow your every move, but you accepted it. I read to you here on purpose several times in certain parts of that report. Nowhere in that report could I find a single sentence asking you, as authorities in Serbia, to change the network of judicial institutions. I read that you should lead the judiciary to independence, to reduce public spending, to fight money laundering, to fight organised crime. I read that you are asked to join the EU to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, namely to establish good neighbourly relations with Kosovo and Metohija. All citizens know that, I've read it, but there's not a single sentence where you're asked to remove an existing network of courts and public prosecutors, destroy everything and start over. I didn't find a sentence like that. You insist on these reforms of yours, despite all that the MPs and the citizens of the field tell you and, after all, your MPs. Your MPs have submitted a large number of amendments to this law and you have not accepted these amendments. It is impossible, Mrs Malovic, that there is no basis if the MP of the opposition party and the MP of the ruling party proposes an amendment to correct your bill, and you and one and another amendment refuse. Indeed, there is no rational explanation for such behavior. We are expected in 2009, which will be extremely difficult for all parameters. The economic situation will be very difficult, many citizens will lose their jobs, despite Boris Tadic's promises that he will fight for their jobs. He also promised in 2004 millions of jobs, and in 2008, 500,000 jobs, and now we have finally heard that there will be no new job opening, but it will therefore help preserve existing jobs. I don't know how it's gonna help when it's obvious that the first thing you're going to do when this law comes into force is to fire judges, people who work in the judicial administration, and that's already an extremely large number of lost jobs. I remind you, Mrs Malovic, that in a difficult economic situation, by force of opportunity, simply, life proves it, the rate of crime is growing. People will simply be forced to steal, to commit crimes to feed themselves and their family. I don't justify it, but I'm pointing to an objective possibility for that to happen. In 2009, be assured, unfortunately, an extremely high crime rate will be recorded. If your ministry, if the Ministry of Interior has the courage to face that fact, you will have to come out in front of this National Assembly with concrete figures on how much the crime and corruption rate rose in 2009 compared to the previous years. In such a situation, when we are expected to have a drastic growth in the crime rate in Serbia, instead of helping the courts, the public prosecutors to prepare for this wave of crime that awaits us, you have taken one completely opposite path. You will now end the existing network of courts, you will now become aware of the judges and public prosecutors who need to fight crime to instill fear – and what will happen to me in a year when this law comes into force, will I remain a judge, a public prosecutor, will I have to travel 100 km from my house to my workplace and back every day? It is hardly the case that judges and public prosecutors will, with all their heart, safely, access the fight against crime under the law. They will first fear for their existence. They're people who have families of their own. Their salaries aren't that big; they're bigger than they were, that's true, but it's still not the level of pay that corresponds to the degree of responsibility that judges and public prosecutors have. And not to mention the salaries of people who work in the judicial administration; these people work for poor wages, as poor salaries do for the ministry employees. Instead of helping the Serbian judiciary welcome a growing crime rate, you will leave these people on their own for a year to think about what to do next in their lives when you take away the bread they have as judges and public prosecutors. No one will worry about the real fight against crime and corruption and Serbia, and in 2009, when you promised it would become a candidate for entry into the European Union, it will be a few light years away from the same European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9851	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr Milan Lapčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9852	The esteemed chairman, the respected lady minister, I have proposed an amendment to Article 9 that governs the head office of public prosecutors in Serbia. I have suggested something similar to the amendments I have proposed and the misdemeanor courts, for basic courts concerning the region from which I come. As with the amendment to the basic court in Aleksinc and the criminal court in Aleksinc, the exact same reasons are for the survival of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Aleksinc. I'll remind you, it's a municipality that has about 60,000 inhabitants and as such has all the spatial, humane, but also demographic and other reasons to leave that court, but also the public prosecutor's office, in the very Alexinac. This public prosecutor's office would cover the area proposed by the basic court in Aleksinac for the territory of the municipalities of Razanj, Sokobanja and Aleksinac. The reasons for this are multiple, and they support the fact that in this way the organisation of the basic court and the criminal court, but also the public prosecutor's office, would be the most rational. I'll tell you in a few words why I think that's the most rational thing. Sokobanja municipality and the Municipality of Razanj are 20 km away from Alexinac. Alexine is a municipality that has 72 settlements. It is one of the most territorialally discreet municipalities in the Republic of Serbia and it, as a municipality, has over 60,000 inhabitants. Along with the municipalities of Razanj and Sokobanja, the public prosecutor's office would cover about 85,000 inhabitants. The number of cases moving across these three courts is twenty-two thousand, which again suggests the need for this public prosecutor's office to survive in Alexinco. One of the parameters that I listed in the interpretation of my own amendment, as regards basic courts, concerns demographic policy, or population depopulation. It's also one of the parameters that can be applied here. I'll remind you that out of the 60,000 inhabitants who live in Alexinac last year, about 1200 have moved away, and 80 people with high professional training. Also, the abolition of the public prosecutor's office will affect that people who are now working in the public prosecutor's office, the basic court, the criminal court, will either have to move to Nis or seek their jobs in another city, which certainly cannot be commended for the environment. The proximity of the settlements around Alexinac also contributes to the fact that the public prosecutor's office needs to survive. If the law is adopted in the original form, that all courts and prosecutors are moving for Nis, it will mean that the public prosecutor will have to travel to Raznja 50km and a few kilometers, and the public prosecutor will have to travel from Zaječar to Sokobanja over 70km, by inadequate roads. This will affect the ineffectiveness of the court, not efficiency, as stated in the reasoning of the law. Multiple adverse consequences, I wouldn't repeat what I said last time, and all I was saying about centralization of state institutions stands in this part, segment of the network of courts and prosecutors. So again those who are the poorest will suffer, those who are the smallest. The momentum that has led Serbia for 50 years towards major cities, towards centralisation, towards the devastation of poor environments that are on the border with other countries, unfortunately this law will also be partially supported. It's not about a large number of people, but every step of this unpopular scale, unpopular movement will affect our municipalities continue to be dissipated and that for a certain time we only have big cities where everyone lives, and endless desert environments in which old people live, no one lives. Please accept this amendment. My predecessor and colleague from Aleksinca, Mr. Radovanovic, spoke something similar. I don't want to repeat, but simply, the parameters set out in the reasoning of the law, and according to which courts and prosecutors were left in several cities, can't be the same and can't be said that the same criterion was implemented in the municipality of Alexinac. For example, in the Borski District, which has very few inhabitants, a public prosecutor's office and a criminal and basic court in Negotin, which has 40,000 inhabitants, which has not been done in Alexinac, which has 20,000 inhabitants more. Also, in Paracino, which is 20 km away from Jagodina and has the same population, a network of courts has been left behind, and in Aleksinec it is not. In Požega, which has twice as many as 30,000 inhabitants and 20 kilometers away from Užica, a network of courts was left behind, and in Aleksinc it was not. I'm not saying that even in these municipalities, courts should be abolished. On the contrary, I'm talking about the fact that criteria must be the same for everyone. If we all have equal rights under the Constitution, then we should treat all environments, cities and municipalities in the same way. I don't see a single valid reason why the public prosecutor's office and the basic criminal court are being abolished in Aleksinec, and that doesn't seem the same in Požega. It would be much more logical to rationalise where it is necessary and where there is, obviously, not enough cases, not enough trials. But in even larger municipalities, which have more than 30,000 or 40,000 inhabitants, these courts have to survive. Please reconsider your position on these amendments and try to accept the largest number of those who have a rational and logical explanation, because this will cause less damage in times like this in 2008, and in 2009 and 2010, it will be even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9853	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9854	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a good thing that... (President: Please do not disturb the speaker.) Mr. Nikolic, I ask you to keep your conduct in line with the need for this house to exhale with dignity. ) It is good that such amendments are submitted and that the representatives of the proposings and the public, including judges, prosecutors, parties, lawyers have the opportunity to hear with what argument MPs have been defending and their amendments, have continued to defend for a week and a half. You see for yourself that when that force of arguments comes, the fact, then this concept of law or, to be precise, the concept of a whole series of judicial laws simply falls into the water. Then there is something that we announced in the principle debate, and it is based on the motivation of the promoter, why this concept of justice in Serbia is really needed. We tried to show you what the problem of this concept is, we tried to show you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not prohibit or, to be more precise, allows different concepts. Of course, I can't call the Constitution now. Mrs. Malovic, you will have to make sure that in all our regulations, civil servants (and in some ways they are, of course, judges and prosecutors) are bound by the Constitution to respect the Constitution, the law. Then the question really arises, given that both judges and prosecutors swear in this building, not in front of the National Assembly, but in front of the President of the National Assembly, how much is the oath, how long do they have to be dedicated, how much do they have to respect the Constitution, the law and the other regulations? Or perhaps someone deliberately creates this situation in order to seek a better argument for the defence of attitudes, we need to appeal to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, the International Pact on Civil and Political Freedoms? We have some other international acts that sort of prescribe standards. Just to remind you that today is International Human Rights Day. We're really in this topic. In order for you to understand that I am within the scope of this topic as provided for by this amendment, I draw your attention that, formally, at the head of all the prosecutions, there is a Republic Public Prosecutor. The Republic Public Prosecutor's Office is above all. Given the hierarchy and co-ordination needed in the prosecution's organisation, it is possible for a man from Belgrade to come and represent a municipality court in a small township. Or, to take this new termology of yours, it's no problem for the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor to take over the case and go to the basic court, I don't know your new organization, but let's say, in Prokuplje and, by law, get out of the proceedings of all the prosecutors who formally, under the Law of Organization and the founding of the Prosecutors, belong, for example, to the basic prosecution in Prokuplje. Why am I telling you this? For the simple reason why it would be good for the prosecution to monitor the organisation of the courts. However, it is not necessary. It is possible that a basic public prosecutor's office may also cover a territory that does not correspond to the territory of the basic court. It's doable, it's possible, and it wouldn't be illegal. It wouldn't be unconstitutional, that's what I mean. The rule is that these territories match that course, but it's not necessary. You have a lot of cases that the municipal public prosecutor's office from one place takes over cases and proceedings in front of another court, not only when it comes to an exemption or some other variant, but it's possible to be a completely different organization. The D.A.'s office doesn't necessarily have to monitor the organisation of the courts. It is desirable, but it is not necessary and, if I may say so, unconstitutional and illegal because that kind of hierarchy and subordination that exists in the prosecution simply allows such a change. If you set the court's organisation wrong and you want the prosecution with its organisation to imitate such an organisation of courts, then all those objections that have been made in terms of basic and higher courts can extend to the prosecution, because you simply tied to each other and then it's impossible not to share the same fate. That's where the problem really comes in. I don't think this kind of centralization is going to achieve efficiency in the fight against crime, since we're talking about the prosecution. I think maybe there are some indications for this kind of organization in the Criminal Code and the fact that the prosecutions are taking over the main post of prosecution and that they must probably move out of the court buildings so that this unnatural link doesn't happen between the one who's persecuting him and the one who's suing him, that the prosecution has to lead the criminal lighting team, that this relationship between the prosecution and the police would have to be bigger, better, by changing the roles compared to what we have today. Today we have the domination of the police in relation to the prosecution, and surely the Code of Criminal Procedure promotes something else – that the prosecution manages a practical and pre-criminal procedure in the work of those police powers relating to the repression of crime and prosecution of perpetrators of criminal acts. This idea of these MPs from Nisavsky County, primarily Milovan Radovanovic from Aleksinc and Mr Lapčević from Nis, which refers to the Aleksinac... Of course, if you haven't accepted the amendments to establish a basic court in Aleksinac, then you have some reason to say you don't even accept the establishment of a basic public prosecutor's office in Alexinco. But the purpose of both groups of amendments, meaning those related to courts and prosecutors, is just to distract us, not to draw the conclusion from the fact that you did not accept the first amendment that this second amendment of maltene is fundamental. No, both amendments are very high-quality and it would be good if the government would accept these principles on which these amendments are based and thus lead to an interpretation of the integrity and justification of an organisation. We see that you were not in charge of these things, you were interested in something else - in achieving absolute domination over the judiciary. Of course, it's easier to control fewer responsible than a large number of court presidents. I'm talking about courts first and foremost, since the D.A.'s situation is completely different. I believe that this debate on this whole series of judicial laws for the past seven or eight days, and perhaps more, represents a good basis for simply withdrawing these laws from the assembly procedure, is no problem, you know, to redecorate it taking into account all these remarks that the MPs made. Because, look, if there are a few questions about which you notice the identity of the view of this area, then you've succeeded something that no one has done before. You simply joined the government and the opposition when it comes to courts and prosecutors, a future organisation, the position of judges, the position of prosecutors, and especially in this law on the organisation of courts and prosecutors. You have almost made a unity of MPs, because all amendments are based almost on the same principle. You've selectively accepted somewhere, in most cases refused and rejected, without having a rational explanation of why you did it. It is not seen what this selectivity is based on, except that it can, by logic of things, be transferred to the field of political belonging or to the side on which the amendment comes. But if you'll excuse me, that's not the reason neither the wholeness nor the justification, and you won't blame me, nor the reason for the constitutionality or the legality. That's not the reason, that can't be your excuse. I don't think any harm will be done to our judiciary if this goes to another dora, a team before you've made it clear in the 2009 budget projection that you're going to increase the number of employees in the judiciary, that you have an obligation to take care of that administrative court, several appeals courts. That's not the problem, since it's been going on since 2003. Since 2003, we have in the budget an appeal court, although in practice we have no judges, no courts, no decisions, but you have allocated funds to settle these courts. If you're really stuck with these appeals courts, in the end, push it, but let's make a quality and efficient organization and nothing gets lost. Believe me, nothing is lost, except that we have seen your intention to call by changing the name of courts and by ensuing a new organisation of courts and prosecutors, apparently in accordance with the Constitution, although the Constitution is not clear, nor is it so explicit, nor does it impose only this concept that you are pushing, imposes that concept... So you have time to redecorate this, sort it out. In the end, if you already have to go to that new organization, then keep the municipal courts, keep the county courts, make those appeals vessels. Our concept is completely different, but it's obvious that our concept can't go through with those first-degree and second-degree courts. Then at least take care of what's on the way in, 'cause it's obviously better than what you've done. What you think should come out of the judiciary, come on, in accordance with the law, if the conditions for resolution are met, it's no problem, but don't scare the judges and prosecutors. We used to, 18 years ago, when we made some opposition in Serbia, all counted that it was urgent to pass a law on the release of the people from fear, and then we counted that the people should be freed from fear of the communist rule. I think we now need not only the law, but the Constitution and some international pact to free citizens from the fear that the Democratic Party in Serbia reproduces. At the same time, you send messages full of fear to ordinary citizens: we are strong. Behind you stands the NATO Pact, behind you is the European Union, behind you is the Hague Tribunal, behind you are satellites, behind you are meteors, everything, all monetary forces, and possibly impossible, behind you. Well, who's going to oppose you? I called the Constitution the other day, so I got a ticket, and I can't even mention the Constitution anymore. I'm shaking when you come out and say it's not in accordance with the Constitution, you'll get an immediate warning, so you know. The constitution is forbidden in the National Assembly. If the Constitution is forbidden in the National Assembly, how do you think prosecutors and judges swear to you? Because of this oath by Tadic, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9855	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure or by amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9856	On the basis of Articles 100 and 101. Rules of Procedure. I apologize for disturbing this idyll, but it is really not acceptable, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to accuse me of injuring the dignity of the National Assembly by wanting to find out whether the speaker is speaking in the Rules of Procedure or not, whether there is a disaster on the agenda waiting for us by moving Eulex and betraying the country or perhaps speaking according to the amendment. You accused me of disrupting the dignity of the National Assembly. It didn't occur to you, at a time when these idylls were gone, that at least you could warn whoever told me that working with Tadic, I served as his rat, that I betrayed Serbia, that I had betrayed interests, that I was killing Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, that I was a dog, that I was a thief, that I was like this or something. So, like God, it's not like the ox. What is allowed for all, Tomislav Nikolic, as a representative of the opposition, is not allowed. I am just warning you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that I have no intention of stopping the work of parliament, but I intend to defend my integrity and my dignity from you, because of these "drunkers" I have nothing to defend, they have their own ups and downs. They had a climb tonight, who knows, maybe tomorrow it'll be a fall, you never know. But please respect at least the equality of the People's Messengers, so when you've already kept quiet to those who are rudely insulting, destroying dignity and the National Assembly and Serbia, don't warn me, I've never done that, I've never done that, I've only asked in passing, "Is this according to the Rules of Procedure? ". If you think that I have compromised the dignity of the National Assembly, let it remain for you, but it was mine to inform the public that there are different ways to inform the public about what is going on in Serbia and that Serbia has become a place where the lowest passions and agreements between the most immoral people are being made and that Serbia has become a place where everything is being negotiated for money. (President: Time. I'm sorry, I'm done. When money decides, then all human virtues and good qualities are thrown at the feet. So, I won't answer. Whenever you insult me from now on, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I will realize that it is now a new policy of your political party and your coalition, I will understand that you personally have nothing against the way I deal with politics, against the way I represent my views in the Assembly, but I will also understand that the president of your party and the president of the "drunk" obviously have completely new arrangements. (All the time the speech of Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9857	The 8th Amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Miss Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9858	Your presence is necessary, Mrs. Malovic, because I'm going to start a very important topic. I apologize, it concerns you personally and one of the major problems that exists today in Belgrade, in the country, and it is a protest of 1,000 workers of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade", who have arrived from all parts of Serbia to Belgrade today. I have just received a delegation consisting of ten workers or workers of the Slave Houses of Belgrade and talked to them. They are determined, as well as their colleagues, to pursue their rights, since they failed through the competent state authorities, the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, the performances they have given you, through the Privatisation Agency, today begin the hunger strike. They are determined and persistent in their intentions to defend what they have done and earned all their lives and what they are in, through the creation of the so-called so-called. social property, invest their work, and their colleagues, in "The Slave House of Belgrade". It's very embarrassing, really; I've sent them out of the National Assembly building visibly shaken, because you can't tell anyone, it's ungrateful -- start a hunger strike and exercise your rights. However, they, as mothers, are both grandmothers and women who spent more than two or three decades in the Slave Houses of Belgrade, forced to do so, as last year. I must remind you that on October 27th of last year, when they strike hunger, asked by Boris Tadic personally and by Dragan Gilas, who they told me that he even cried that day, let go of some crocodile's tear, to move tents outside the presidency building, which they are likely to reinstall today, because they are embarrassing the president of the state, not to worry, that trade courts and authorities will do their job. However, Mrs Malovic, although the sale of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" "Verano Motors", i.e. Radomiru Živanic, a certain Baji Plavo, was made on 29 October last year, the state did not finish its work, and the Privatisation Agency and Minister Mladjan Dinkic did his obligations to the workers of "Robic Houses". I am taking the opportunity, on the occasion of this amendment by my colleague Radovanovic, to point out what the Serbian judiciary is and how difficult it is to achieve justice, how funny all these executive solutions that came from Belgrade and Kragujevac's trade courts are, how different they are in the same dispute for those employees of the "Robno Houses". So, they ask that their demands be met by the end and they say, as they address Boris Tadic personally, and they mention you, that the President of the Trade Court, acting Judge Natalija Pejic-Kordić, the Minister of Justice, is you, the Minister of Economy, and that in black letters, they furthered him up and subdued him because he is in charge of this whole case, and Branko Karan, the bankruptcy manager, who received 50 million dinars for the management business of the year, as they declared him last year when Baji Blue sold the facilities, i.e. the company "Robney Houses", as AD, you know that the company remains as a special legal person, as well as the director of the project Draga Stevanovic... in order, they say, to finally resolve the embarrassment, shame and indignity of the bankruptcy proceedings against the company and the slave houses of Belgrade, which lasts seven years, while the bankruptcy is uncontrollably and irrevocably melting. They say that the protest includes all workers of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade", who arrived on buses today and, as I said, are located outside the government building of the Republic of Serbia. The requirements point to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who told him yesterday that in 2009 he would not live worse than in 2008. What kind of message is that? I hear that this morning his statement was ironed by Diana Dragutinovic, who said: it will live better. Wasn't it a message from your election campaign: Serbia, life cannot wait, will live much better, bigger wages, pensions? The prime minister of a state, no one in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism... I don't know if there's a prime minister on the entire globe who could make such a statement. First, it's abnormal for him to say something like that because of his political rating. He said so, so this morning you sent B92 to Zajritst B92 Diana Dragutinovic to try to fix it somehow. Now the workers of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" with the right of rebellion have come to lay down their lives for you, those fragile women who are drunk, who are exhausted, who are quite sick and exhausted, to strike hunger outside the presidency building today. They stress that they will not give up; if they should, they will stay there for days because the state has deceived them. How did she cheat on them? Mrs. Malovic, you are the minister of justice, in your work résumé you were praised, so they said that you worked on various projects of many laws, is it possible that this law on the executive procedure is applied so differently and the law on bankruptcy, which last year or before with amendments and additions adopted here in the Assembly, is it possible that interest on the main of the debt is calculated differently for five-six thousand workers? If someone had a lead, it was the government's obligation after selling the Slave Houses to a certain Baji Plav, Zivanić, to pay off those residual earnings, from 26 to 54 earnings in the period from 1996, how is it possible for someone to get an executive solution, first, without legal instruction? What did those poor women know? They just told me. They are not lawyers, and the post-festum, taught by their lawyers, came to the realization that they should not have signed such solutions at all. Somewhere it was a solution to the Trade Court, somewhere notice, which is also in violation of the law, to cut them off so much money, so these profits to the same principals were so different, from 100,000 to 1,000, or 1,200,000. Mrs. Malovic, I have some individual cases here; as I come directly from these talks, I now have to examine all this further and report to you today several more times, and me and my colleague, Stevanovic, who is a member of the Privatisation Committee in front of our parliamentary group. We will seriously consider this issue and ask the president of the National Assembly to order the president of the Privatisation Committee and the chairman of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to include this urgently as a part of the agenda. We've run a lot of mobs and criminal activities. It's obvious that this slave house mob is a mob in the agency with a bankruptcy manager. I must suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that bankruptcy was declared in 2002, when the chairman of the Administrative Committee of the Slave Houses of Belgrade was Bojan Stanojevic. You know what kind of criminal it is and how it is and who he's going to negotiate the sale with. You know very well that, regardless of what was last year's venture, the price could have been much higher, even up to 500,000 euros, and was sold by 200,000. The buildings of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" are now being reconstructed in the centre of Kragujevac, Nis and other cities in Serbia, and workers are being left without their rights. Their demands are very clear and are all legally justified. Since groups of lawyers and legal experts are working in all Serbian cities, because people had to seek legal protection through the competent court, and the court is not responding, as is the case of a lady who is constantly from the Kragujevac Commercial Court returning to the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade; then they say – these are the requests sent today. With that shock that all Serbian citizens survived yesterday, and especially the fear of our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, and with such a dilettante statement by Prime Minister Cvetkovic, I think, Mrs Malovic, that for you – is that this debate is under way, I am sorry, this concerns trade courts in Serbia, as well as Republic Public Prosecutor Slobodan Radovanovic, who was also addressed by workers – there is not much work today. If I tell you, and the fact is that they're here and they're gonna spend the night outside the presidency building, that they're in front of the Serbian government, that so many people have explicit demands, then it's inappropriate for us to just talk about it and not react at all today. On the fraud Dinkic and his delusions, they no longer count. Their interest has been cut off, and that's the real question... Now I want to use this part of my exposure to request official notice from the government and from Resolute Minister Diana Dragutinovic how do interest on the capital of any debt in Serbia, on any basis? Does one of you in the O.R. know, if you have any debts, you owe, say, a tax, you owe anything to the state, how the interest is calculated? I'll tell you, it's a complete unknown to all citizens of Serbia. Someone says it's 0.02% a day, so it goes cumulatively, and colleagues approve, and someone says it's not. Even if it were, it is not in accordance with the Law on Liabilities which is in force and with what banks are counting on you for the debts you have. This is a much larger amount, and it does not fit even the average, as they call it, the National Bank of Serbia -- an escontant, annual interest rate, which is probably 24-25%. I think it's about that. Anyway, there's a lot more interest in those debts. If the state asks you to pay so much in the name of interest for unpaid tax, for anything, excuse me, please, how is it possible that workers of the Slave Houses will get these solutions and that the interest on the main account from the moment Bojan Stanojević and criminal Dinkic and Karan are brought to bankruptcy in "The Slave House of Belgrade"? That's impossible. They openly suspect that, based on the calculation of interest from this bankruptcy, I repeat again, you know that, but because of fellow MPs, there are two legal persons: the company AD and the company of the Slave House, from this second one, which has not been sold. Explain this to me, Mrs. Malovic, why it takes so long to sell this part of the company to this Baji Blue for a year's bankruptcy. Why couldn't it have ended in a shorter time? Because Dinkic's goal and this manager of yours, actually a criminal and a thief, Karan, is to draw even more money for himself. Who was the manager in this business? I'm personally a witness to that. There were people, so, two days before the hunger strike in front of the presidency building last year, it seems to me about October 25th, they came and brought me a list and they said, "This is all property and what buildings are, "the slave houses" objects. In the meantime, just to tell you, as this sale took place, three warehouses have been lost from this company's bankruptcy. They're not going anywhere, they're not going anywhere. So they said, from the moment the company was sold, and it's impossible to sell for less than 300,000... Before that, they visited all the embassies, including the embassy of Greece, because on that day it was said to be a consortium of this company with some Greek company, and the Indian Embassy and some Western countries. So, with their strike and their long-standing rebellion, workers of the Slave Houses of Belgrade were actually managers in the privatisation business. We, my colleague Jojic, and others, remember maybe if you followed the assembly session then, ten days in a row from this booth we were just talking about the slave house company. It's a big robbery, because if the citizens of Serbia thought, and believe me, until today, the workers came to me, and until they brought me this file, that it was all over the moment that Zivanić from "Verano Motors", Baji Blue, was sold to the company, it's obviously not, because the part that's left, to be sure, is pumping into someone's pockets. To whom? In the pocket of Mladjan Dinkic and his manager, Karan. They have now filed a lawsuit before all the competent courts in Serbia individually, 3,700 workers, and there will be more individual lawsuits, they have filed a complaint, and eventually entered a court dispute and addressed the President of the Trade Court in Belgrade for incorrectly paid cash from the bankruptcy. If the interest is applied from case to case, and I don't know what the total bankruptcy mass is, then it's about tens or hundreds of millions of dinars or over tens of millions of euros that someone is now taking, and it's denying workers for their rights. So, Mrs. Malovic, since these are extremely serious things and since they're obviously going to... (President: Time. Here, I'm done. Since it's obviously that strike... I don't want to, of course, because it's cold out there and I've seen and I've seen it myself again, I'm telling you, I'm very shaken in that conversation because of what I've heard from them individually; these are wives, both mothers and grandmothers, worthy and hardworking women, who are going to crucify the tents in front of the presidency building again today. If Gilas comes in and starts crying, and Boris Tadic comes out himself (if he's here today, and we don't even know where the president of the state is in a situation where Eulex and things like this happen), these people won't give up. Someone's got to show you the teeth. People have to be organized, because if the workers did it in 2001, however, she was doing some stick, when you fired 15,000 workers and sent... (President: Time. )... It'd be much better. We support absolutely, our parliamentary group, and in the course of the day and the next, as long as they persist in their demands, we will present all this data on criminal actions and on the robbery of bankruptcy, what remains of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade". Thank you, and I'm sorry for the overstep.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9859	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Pastor, do you want a word? Ah, Mr. Varga. The People's MP Lasslo Varga has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9860	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SVM have tabled six amendments to the draft law on the seats of courts and courts and public prosecutors. This is our last amendment. The bottom line of all our amendments is, on the one hand, that there will be a misdemeanor court in Backo Topoli, on the other hand, to survive the basic courts in Bačka Topoli, Senti, Vienna. We used to go out for a pay phone several times and we talked about each of our amendments. We've brought out countless arguments. I think we even managed to convince the minister that we were right when we proposed these amendments. Unfortunately, there is someone above the minister who simply doesn't allow this amendment to be accepted, but maybe we'll talk about it another time. I had no intention of answering this amendment either, but in recent days, primarily by some MPs of the ruling coalition, there have been some attempts to deceive the public. That's why I answered the word after this amendment, to try some things out. It's about two groups of attempts at deception. One group refers to decisions, some of the conclusions that the AP Vojvodina authorities made when the debate was already under discussion in the National Assembly, and the other part concerns the issue of European integration. As for the decision of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, two non-truths have emerged in public. One untruth refers to the essence of the decision of the Executive Council of Vojvodina. It is that there have been claims that the Executive Council has supported this bill in this form in which it is located in the National Assembly. That's not true. In fact, the Executive Council supported the Bill's proposal, but in a changed form, in the form of a court in Senta, which is a very big difference compared to the original bill. The second untruth relates to the role or behaviour of the SVM representative in the decision-making of the AP Vojvodina, or the Executive Council. There have been claims that our representatives supported that proposal, that is to say, that of the AP Vojvodina, which, in its amended form, supports this bill. That's not true. The SVM representatives did not support the proposal, which was otherwise adopted by the Executive Council, at the session where the Executive Council adopted the decision. Therefore, the decision of the Executive Council was made by the votes of the party which makes up the majority in the Executive Council. I repeat, we didn't vote for that. The second part of the deception concerns the need for harmonisation of the law, in this case of this law, with some European Union standards. I think it's necessary to deny it or try to disprove it. Unfortunately, it is again, and not for the first time, but perhaps in this form for the first time, about the abuse of European integration. Since we have a long way to join the European Union, it is not good to create a precedent in this way when it comes to European integration. I would like to draw your attention to a very important fact, which otherwise applies to all the countries that have become EU members, which is that as some countries are approaching the EU, support for European integration is reduced and it is not good that any country's authority is taking further steps towards further decline in support of European integration. Unfortunately, many of my colleagues have talked about this law being passed because someone from the European Union has imposed and this claim has also occurred among some MPs in the ruling coalition. Once again, I want to deny that fact. In fact, no one from the European Union has asked for the number of courts from 138 to 34. That progress report, repeatedly quoted, only states that the task of the National Assembly, or ruling majority, is to ensure independence, accountability, and efficiency of the judicial system. Only so is the report, and in no way is the number of basic courts reduced in such a drastic way. On the other hand, which may be an even bigger problem, we have already talked about it, but I want to repeat again, this law creates obstacles on the way to European integration. In fact, one of the most important values of the EU is respect for the rights of members of national minorities. This has become an EU value, one of the basic values. The fact is that the total number of courts from 138 to 34 is generally reduced, so one quarter survives, and in areas where minorities live in a significant number, therefore, where they form an absolute or relative majority, the number of courts decreases from 14 to two, so one week survives. I claim this is a violation of the rights of members of the national minorities. Perhaps you would have abolished the basic court in Subotica and New Market, if you could, but I think that would have been a little too much for the legislator of this law. All in all, I would like to go back to one more question, which is the question we have already talked about once – the issue of the control of the mandate by political parties. Serbia will happen the same way with this new network of courts. From year to year, the problem will appear in a report on progress towards the European Union, the same way as the problem of controlling the mandate by political parties arises. As long as that control is not lifted and, in some cases, this law is passed, until a judicial system which does not violate the right of members of national minorities is established, the problem will appear in the annual report. I repeat, there will be an obstacle on the way to the European Union. For all these reasons, we again appeal to the Ministry to withdraw this proposal, to consider all amendments submitted to this bill. We believe that it should not only be necessary to adopt our amendments, but also some others, and thus, in some elaborate or amended form of the law, to return this proposal to the National Assembly and thus allow us, SVM MPs, to vote on any other proposals that are otherwise on the agenda of the session that is under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9861	Thank you, Mr. Varga. National MP Filip Stojanovic wants to speak to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9862	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting under Article 226 and requesting notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. December 9th 2008 is the day when the Eulex mission was illegally installed in our entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. I ask the Serbian government to be familiar with the public, what was going on behind closed doors, regarding the negotiations of Serbia's highest state summit, that is, President Tadic and Minister Jeremic? As you are informed, the Eulex mission took over and implemented Ahtisaari's plan on the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija on 9 December 2008, with the agreement of the entire state summit. Now it is clear to all of us that the ruling majority in this house is distracting Serbia's entire public with some laws that will only be implemented in 2010, and during that time, the Eulex mission is peacefully deployed, without any problems. Several times after this speaker, I asked the president of the Serbian Parliament to schedule a session of the assembly to discuss Kosovo and Metohija. You refused to discuss the motion for a resolution tabled by a group of MPs, signed by the MPs of the SRS. The Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija were deceived by the government of Serbia and the state summit. By leaving UNMIK, the Serbian people no longer have adequate security and have been left at the mercy of the world's executioners. On the arrival of the Eulex mission, it is now a new state in the territory of the Serbian state, called Kosovo, under the patronage of America. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, here is how the Serbian government deceives Serbian citizens, conducts secret negotiations with EU members on the deployment of Eulex in the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija; we have evidence and papers, where Mr Zanieri says, "I regularly contact the Serbian government, because she has accepted all arrangements for EULEX, while Pristina has rejected everything, but we hope that Pristina, also encouraged Ban Ki Munom, will be ready to co-operate with the EU and NATO." Gentlemen, I hope that Serbia will get back on its feet upright and proudly, because history and time are repeated, and closer in 2012, when Serbia will shine the sun from the east. But not with this and this government, but with the SRS government, headed by Dr Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9863	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting not only to support Mr Lassla Varga's amendment, which he has already explained, and his MPs from the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, but to say that I mostly support all other amendments. The proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors is a bill amending the existing organisational structure of courts and prosecutors. This bill is not realistic, it does not respect the reality of the state of Serbia and its citizens, so the MPs, mostly from the opposition, but also from the position, as well as members of national minorities (such as this amendment), have tabled amendments, 37 of which are to be submitted to Article 3 which provides that 138 municipal courts are to be reorganised to 34 basic courts that will have their own judicial units. Article 9 suggests that there are 34 basic public prosecutors in Serbia and ten amendments have been submitted to this article of the bill. There are numerous arguments and reasons against such a concept of abolishing courts and public prosecutors. The arguments of reality, such as: tradition, discretion, number of cases, distance, territorial layout of the population and the need for human rights and interests to be sought through courts and prosecutors and that the court and the prosecution are available to the citizen and that they effectively exercise their judicial authority, the legislator did not take into account at all. The aim was to reform the judiciary, what such, but at any cost, even though this law should only be brought to life in January 2010. The Serbian Radical Party cannot support such a illogical and bad party, and in many members it is against the law. If you have no other solution, you will withdraw this law as soon as possible. Most likely this law will vote, so it will live, perhaps, in 2010, but then you will see which objections, complaints, complaints and difficulties to have citizens in achieving justice and the fact that courts and prosecutors must be accessible to the citizen so that he can achieve, or protect, one of their own rights. There is no reliable evidence in this bill that equal access is possible for all citizens. The state of Serbia should show more understanding for municipalities in which national minorities live. The government must meet these demands and show that it is the state of all its citizens and that it takes special care of national minorities. In these amendments, MPs have made serious remarks and are asking the Ministry of Justice to take seriously the importance of these objections. Are you going to adopt or not this amendment, like everyone else? Obviously you won't, because you have your goal, which is to reorganize this network of courts. They repeat once again the facts repeated by this pay phone, for Serbia's citizens. This law has only 19 members, to whom 122 amendments have been tabled at the outset. The Serbian government adopted only 13 amendments, and 109 did not. This says that no MP in this respected home is satisfied with the way the government of the Republic of Serbia thinks it handles the network of courts and prosecutors. The concept of a network of courts and prosecutors in Serbia is also very dangerous for the country. Once again, I stress that there was no reason for the names of municipal and district courts to be abolished and the names of primary and senior courts to be given. Am I right, and most MPs, time will tell. SRS lawmakers warn on time that the law is not good for both Serbian citizens and the Serbian judiciary. If Serbia claims to be a legal state, it must respect the Constitution and the laws. By abolishing the existing status of municipal courts in Bačka Palanca, Backo Topoli and Vienna, and the prosecution, the current independence is lost in the process of rationalising a network of courts in Vojvodina, for which there is no legal basis or state justification. These general criteria of the Ministry, such as the territory and geographical area, the proximity of major traffic, the multinational population, its number, as well as the specificity of this municipality, for the conduct of judicial proceedings in several languages, the number and complexity of cases in processing, the tradition of the 150-year courts, the existence of continuous court work in Bačka Topoli, are also guaranteed that these courts in Bačka Topoli, Senti and Vienna should not be abolished. The reason the ministry states is to rationalise, but the SRS thinks it's not rational at all. To me, and to many MPs, it is not a clear concept that the legislator had in mind when he referred this bill to the Assembly. If the aim is to rationalise the network of courts and prosecutors, if the aim is to reduce costs, it will certainly not be achieved by this law. In the context of this, I must point out the statement by Peter Feith, who said Kosovo has a constitution, that he will soon have a constitutional court and laws that will be passed by Kosovo institutions. Feith stressed that the Eulexa mission is a project of Kosovo's independence and achievement of the goals set earlier. Not only did the government put Eulexes on a small door behind closed doors, as defined in Ahtisaari's plan, but the government agreed to hold talks on Kosovo's status status status and the foundation of Kosovo's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9865	Mr. Dragan Stevanović, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say a few words in general about this and all the other amendments that have been submitted to this bill. Certainly, Madam Minister, I would like to begin my presentation again with a question of whose interest is the adoption of this law. I hope you find it appropriate until the end of the discussion to tell us, I don't think it would be bad, just to remind you. Given the government's indifferent attitude towards all amendments submitted to the text of this law and a very loose reaction to the public reaction, and to the judicial and ordinary public in Serbia, I conclude that the law will still have to be adopted on the basis of non-discipline. It is not a matter of who will be unprincipled, whether the government will accept some amendments from the MPs, or unprincipled to be MPs who have "appealed" to the text of this law, which have submitted amendments, but who will vote against their will and dissatisfied with this law for this law. So, on whose side there's going to be non-discipline, it doesn't matter. If the law is passed on these grounds, you can imagine the application of it. I think you've shown "courage" by going into a procedure like this with a law where it is seriously challenged by the possibility of its adoption. I think you could objectively accept the amendments, if no one else, at least amend those who spoke here on behalf of minorities. No one else would blame you in the Assembly, not even those whose principles you are guided by, the European Union, I think that is in line with their standards. I think you could even accept that. I would not like it to happen at a time when none of the opposition (or any other MPs) is in a situation, in a position to react to such a possible decision, to be in the context of this indiscipline that I spoke of at first. You see, Madam Minister, my colleague Martinovic just said that there are laws that are being passed to make it better, to make it worse, and I personally think that there is one third variant, which is that laws are passed so that everything stays the same, or that nothing changes. It's like with people, you have good people and you have bad people, but you know what the worst ones are, the worst ones are the mediocre ones, they're the ones that are between each other. Those mediocres have been trying their whole lives to make the sulfur balloon look like a soap balloon. That's what they can do until that sulfur balloon bursts. And so it will be with this law when, God forbid, it applies in practice, I think it will show all its shortcomings in practice and in the field. I personally think, Madam Minister, that the bearers of the changes you're promoting through this set of judicial laws cannot be the ones that put the judiciary in a position in which the judiciary is. You received a mandate for judicial reform in 2000, based on a dissatisfaction accumulated over the past ten years. You've been given a mandate to make changes. It seems to me that you are one of the government officials present in the justice area since 2000; you said you worked in Mr Batic's cabinet, who was then a minister, so here we are today. Not only has there not been a change in the judiciary, the judiciary has been completely destroyed, destroyed, and now these same people who have only been in different positions and places offer and promise to change citizens through a set of judicial laws, which have seen so many amendments, among other things. I'm really in a dilemma about who's lying to us, the government or the government's tenants. Take a look at Mrs. Verice Barac's attitude on the draft law that is on the agenda today. The most terrible trick is, however, judicial reform, which will fully legalise even greater politicisation of the judiciary. The government won't get rid of it because it's the government's official position. I wish the government would dump her for that, but that's the government's position and we objectively have a problem with it, but we're still gonna talk about it, hopefully, by the end of the day. So here's the attitude the government's deputies have about your intentions to reform the judiciary. Why would we have a different attitude or possibly question the fact that this is not good and that nothing good will do? Last night, Madam Minister, I saw Mr. Homen, who was on TV on one of the shows. You know the impression he made? He made the impression of the secretary of state, but the shadow governments, because everything he said was like some political speech by certain politicians, or opposition parties in the campaigns. He cited a hundred problems in the judiciary, recorded especially in the 2000-2008 period, I repeat, for the same period as you and everyone else in Serbia in power and define the way of the justice system in this country. He brought forth a series of facts about unsolved cases, bad judgments, attitudes, corruption in the judiciary, everything that is objectively suppressed. In this context, since I no longer have time, just to tell you, I was also present with Miss Jovanovic for a conversation with the workers of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade". If this story of mine I was telling hadn't been groundless, this is a court verdict, and it's an executive verdict, made by 10. 4. In 2002, 400 workers were included. For these 400 workers, this verdict envisions the payoff of the income difference, beware, for the period from 1995 to 2000. These workers have to this day failed to exercise their right defined by this verdict. You have suffered this for eight years and now you convince the people of Serbia that you will bring judicial reform. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9867	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9868	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Mrs Malovic, colleague Milica Radovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. A bill that only follows what we have proposed by amendment to Article 3 to retain the existing network of courts in Serbia, i.e. that 138 courts in Serbia continue to operate. Following that amendment, we submitted an amendment to the prosecutors in Belgrade. The bill stipulates that there are two courts in Belgrade, a third, a fourth and a fifth court are being abolished, jurisdiction is being divided, practically, by the first Belgrade court to take over everything that is meant by the heart and the centre of the city, while for the suburban seats is jurisdiction in the second Belgrade court. I hope someone took care of the position and authority of the president of the first Belgrade court. In my opinion, it will likely be the fourth man in the Republic of Serbia, following the president, prime minister and president of the Assembly. In line with what we've been looking for, to keep the existing network of courts, we suggest that that is how the Belgrade prosecutors function. We've been carrying out a lot of data on the number of cases, on everything that's burdening us, and on what's going to burden these courts in the next period. We think that we should accept, first of all, the amendment to Article 3, and automatically what we have proposed for Article 9. The fact is, we haven't come across your understanding. We have proposed a second solution – that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, that you might think about it a little more and find the best possible solution. If these amendments are not accepted, if the bill as the government has sent us passes, I can again express my biggest concern for the functioning of Serbia's judiciary since 2010. For this reason, I call once again on you to think carefully and to react here, or to put MPs to the vote in the day, especially the MPs of the ruling coalition in whose places the courts are abolished, think carefully about how they will return to their city and how they will explain the loss of courts in their cities and municipalities. I'm sure this isn't a good solution. If there is a need, a compromise solution could be found. Even that first bill that was on the Justice Ministry site may have gone that way, but with these changes and the abolition of 104 courts in the Republic of Serbia, I am not sure that there is any luck for the citizens of Serbia and for the employees of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9869	Thank you. The word is made by Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9870	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Damjanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, we want to support the amendment of counterparts Petkovic and counterpart Milice Radovic because of the fact that this amendment is fully justified and that we need to have a fourth, third and fifth basic prosecutor's office in Belgrade, because citizens are eager for justice and the fact is that there is indeed complete chaos in the country. I can't help but look back at the current political situation and say that by breaking the opposition in the National Assembly of Serbia, trying to make the country "the worse, the better" led to citizens being at one point confused by the fact that they have no one to turn to, who to protect them, etc. You see who is now defending the rights of Serbian citizens in the Assembly. First of all, the SRS, as well as colleagues from the other two opposition parties, as it is the Serb opposition, the DSS and the NS. All these events concerning the illegal deployment of the so-called so-called. The Eulex missions in Kosovo and Metohija, the catastrophic situation in the Serbian judiciary and all the problems we have today, as well as any Serbian citizen, are only being treated through amendments and we are talking about it, and that is the fact. Who's watching the second RTS program... And Mr Krasic has been calling you for days to do this, because this is the only place where we can say what problems are in the state of Serbia; there is no other option, all other lies and delusions of various agencies and manipulators, through printed and electronic media, staged interviews, set up duels, set up shows. But in this place, we protect everyone's rights. Who are the most endangered today? It is a key, state and national problem and a question for a difficult winter, the tenth under occupation, our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija. They're workers, farmers, pensioners, unemployed. Today, December 10th, what symbols, we started this morning with the story that the International Day of Human Rights, four unions strike in Serbia: the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions of Serbia is still strikein front of the government of the Republic of Serbia on Nemanja Street, the Confederation of Free Trade Unions, the Grand Union of Metals of Serbia and employees and creditors of the "RK Belgrade". I want to keep talking about them, the problem of trustees and employees in the "RK Belgrade". Isn't it indicative of all this happening to you, I'm asking you from the ruling coalition? Some of you are sitting in the hall, following what the Serbian radicals are saying under the amendments to this extremely bad law that is currently in question, which will be difficult to apply, and will not apply until 1 January 2010. Isn't that the alarm and the alarm signal? At least let Prime Minister Cvetkovic show up and say what he means next. I'm sorry, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I'm just a moment ago, shaken by the fact that the ladies from the "RK Belgrade" came in that state, made a lapus. I said that Mirko Cvetkovic said that in 2009 he would not live up, because he knows that worse than this he could not or could not, that all people were messing around in containers and that they were feeding the unemployed, like that poor worker in Kragujevac who was found, for 14 days he was hungry, almost starved. But he said, "It's not going to get any better." How come it won't, when in the campaign before the May 11th election, you promised not to be a little better, but much better, and new jobs? You know what made these four unions stand in Belgrade today, in front of the Serbian government, and these women and their colleagues will come outside the presidency building to re-expand tents and strike hunger? They say -- because of mass layoffs and the worse economic situation in Serbia. Where do you live? Do you live in Serbia? Are you from some cities? Are you moving out of this basement of the National Assembly, where is this joke? You read the paper, you watch TV? How much, Mr. Lightning, in Chačka? In seven days, seven hundred men. What's going to happen to the Fiat and the employment? Nothing. Only 2,400 and the question is who's going to be in those 2,400. They are not obliged to be the workers you first left in 2001, 15,000 of them, and then the ones you deceived, in fact Mladjan Dinkic, with the famous Employment and Education Service. These four unions -- which are exclusively referred to in the Serbian Assembly by Serbian Radicals and, I must say, because of collegiacy, colleagues from these other two opposition parties, the DSS and the NS -- are demanding that the government of the Republic of Serbia act urgently or that Mirko Cvetkovic resign. What would that be hard for him? Where did he come up so much, what did he say? That message of his that he would not live better not if he wasn't politically wise, but it's so clear that only worse can we expect, and enough to look at the exposures he took here during the election, I have him up in the drawer, and to see what he promised on behalf of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. Where are we today, December 10th? There, where Serbia's biggest social problem today has been re-accumulated, so people are forced to come from all over Serbia by cold weather this winter. Do you think it's easy for them or have nothing to do today? Indeed, they have not when they are fired and have nothing to live on, but they are forced, many of them, the wages. In Vladic's Han, one of the most famous Serbian poets, who has repeatedly been nominated for various awards and won them, is now looking forward to and culture over the fact that he has not received a national pension. I'll bring you the complete material to see what Serbian patriots are talking about. Why would he get a national pension from the state when they're supposed to get these yellow favorites who never did anything to promote our national culture, tradition, history, nothing? As far as this problem is concerned today, which is "The Slave Houses of Belgrade", I must continue, Mrs. Malovic, and you will give me the answers during the day, as this is addressed to you, above all to Boris Tadic, to inform the public and the MPs what all the demands of these deceived people are. So, I'm gonna go back again, do that little digression, at the beginning of the story. At least 3,700 workers of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" have been deceived in the process of paying off these severances. How? By being different from the case-to-case interest, the same archaic has not been applied everywhere. You have one specific example, or complaint from the trustee on the submission of the bankruptcy manager. If the principal is 70,636,53 dinars, and 915,079,90 dinars are paid for that lady, for that worker... Otherwise, let me tell you, when we talk about the human rights of every Serbian citizen, it is a violation – all names, with all the data, with the number of ID cards, with the address of all workers of the "Robic Houses of Belgrade" are on the official website of the Privatisation Agency. People are scared. You know why? There's no amount out there that they got for the severance, so now every fool (they take care of their own safety) can think that these workers got three, four, five million dinars. In fact, 50 million dinars for the management job of the year, to sell Baji Blue to "The Slave House of Belgrade", won this Dinkic criminal Branimir Karan. Look and tell me, does that make any sense? Is it normal, Mrs. Malovic, and how could someone have done such a thing and applied such selective interest and such a reckoning? Now this lady who had the capital 70,636 dinars got, I said this final amount, 12.95 times more. You can tell by simple calculations. Someone who had a major debt, and that depends on where he worked, where he worked, whether he had such a job internship, who has a capital of 306,900 dinars (I have to say again because of Serbian citizens that this debt is up to 26 - 54 salaries, which dates back to 1996) has been given 2.67 times more, less than three times. How is that possible? Did the bankruptcy manager run, the one that apparently pumps that money out of the bankruptcy, since three warehouses were missing... That's what I'm going to tell you now, the Stockholders' Association (by the way, thousands are in Belgrade today) called to the Serbian Constitutional Court Supervisory Board to determine where these warehouses are. Is it normal, Mrs. Malovic, that such a crime is being committed? They don't even know, and neither do we, what's the total bankruptcy mass. How do we know when three warehouses are missing and they're selling some facilities to a no-show? Just to see. You know why they were put in this situation? It was easy for this tycoon Baji Blue, he bought it and the question is who's behind it all. Officially, "Verrana Motors" (i.e., Mr. Vukovicu, since you are an expert on these tycoons and criminals in Serbia), but the question is who is behind this consortium, what has been going on and how they have come into the situation, two days after the workers strike, to buy "the slave houses of Belgrade". And all that is so and that there is this total bankruptcy mass, where are these objects, how are they gone, Mrs. Malovic? How come the state authorities didn't do that? In the Special Prosecutor's Office, today, for two years, V.D. Prosecutor Slobodan Radovanovic, I have to find it, because these ladies who were with me have been responsible for telling them, because in the country there are a lot of problems with large companies, and at the time there is a law on bankruptcy and there has to be a bankruptcy procedure for "the slave houses of Belgrade" and for some other companies, he said – all bankruptcy is not worth more than you, which is a fact, you see for yourself. But if so, how and where will they exercise their rights, when their executive solutions? Mr. Jojic, again, I claim, although I am not a lawyer, but for so many years I have been in the legislative area, that your law on the executive procedure, the federal one, when you were the minister and when you explained it to the Federal Assembly, was definitely the best, and the informants immediately changed it after 2000. I was proud at the time, as a Serbian radical and MP to the Citizens' Council, because the Serbian radical, the minister, comes out with such a bill. Here today, even though they have these executive judgments, they can't do anything. In fact, somewhere written, I'll give you that file, Mrs. Malovic, and I'll prepare a copy for you. It's a matter of solutions, without legal instruction, so now the post-festum they hired lawyers to see what they'd do and what they'd do, and somewhere just notice. Then they came to the Commercial Bank, which was tasked with paying them these abnormal payments (selectively applied interest on the principal), to sign and go home. You've received the money, goodbye. And what's wrong with the law, which is what someone decided to make the workers, from case to case, to put the rest in their pocket... They openly say they suspect it is Mladjan Dinkic, through his bankruptcy manager. Seven bankruptcy managers changed in so many years. There's never been a handover, but as whoever comes, he just keeps buying money. Let's not talk about the tenants' debts for the facilities. I don't know about all the department stores in Serbia, I know about Beogradian, we know about the facility in Knez Mihailovo, but in Kragujevac you don't have a better place, the best place in town. There's so many of them who had a certain location in the lease, I don't want to talk to them by heart, because I don't know if they've all been keeping their commitments regularly, but some have not, and they've been taking huge objects. How, then, was it possible for these facilities to be sold into depravity and for small money, before the general privatisation was done, Mrs. Malovic? They filed a request to the Constitutional Court Supervisory Board, filed on 22 October 2008, and do we even have a Constitutional Court? They filed with the Constitutional Court, the Supervisory Board, ma'am, and if they were wrong... They are not complaining about anything concrete, they have addressed the Constitutional Court Supervisory Board to react by sending the Anti-Organised Crime Authority to do this, not individually complaining to the Supreme Court about their verdicts. This is a whole second submission. I know you may have been informed that they have complaints to the Supreme Court on the judgments of trade courts in Serbia, but in this particular case they did so and it was accepted in the Serbian Constitutional Court on 24. Ten. It doesn't matter if they came to the right address. If they have spoken to one of the highest court cases, including you, and the president of the state, then I suppose it was normal for you to receive delegations from these people and direct them further to what they should do. But the state authorities still don't do their job. There's no indication, there's concrete evidence that the rest of the remains are being robbed. Mrs. Pesic, I'm finishing up. I don't know what the problem is. It's probably a problem that we're talking about this misery and the poor, but I'm personally affected by the fact that the state authorities won't react. You are not the protector of the times of the National Assembly, especially when you come to the congregation once in ten days.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9871	Ladies and gentlemen, you have received Milovan Markovic's resignation as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of MPs and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, 2 and 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the mandate of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before he was elected, to MP Milovan Markovic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. The word, according to the amendment, has Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9872	I will speak by amendment, but I would like to ask Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic to inform me of my arrival in the Assembly, whether I come to the Assembly every ten days. I think a lot of citizens would be happy if you really were a little behind. I would like to support Mr Miroslav Petkovic's amendment because I have indeed, in some ways, followed this debate about the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Prosecutors, seen numerous and justified criticisms of MPs and I do not know why there is so much insensitivity on your part to respect them. When I speak to them personally about their argument, they absolutely claim that what you propose will not be realised and that it is unrealable not only because of the time period, by January 2010, as you set the deadline, but that the whole idea cannot be realized. If there's a car accident in Nova Varosha, and you have that court in Užica, there's nothing there anymore, practically. You say nothing changes for the citizens. It doesn't change when it's supposed to be stamped, but all the other investigations, what the court does, it changes. That's what you have to tell the citizens. If he, when it snows, is going to run from Uzic to Nova Varosh to investigate when the bus fell into a ditch, what's it going to look like? What's imagined is, do you have any kind of combination that in another country, such a reorganisation as you're offering? It's clear to me by one point that perhaps in Petrovac there are very few cases in the Mlavi court, while some courts are buried. Did the solution to this problem have to be as you suggest, or could a better solution be found? I am particularly concerned about the abolition of the prosecutor's office and courts in Belgrade itself. Wherever you go in, it's buried everywhere, and the prosecution and courts in Belgrade. You're reducing courts and prosecutors in Belgrade. I understand that in some places in Serbia, and it's certainly statisticalally correct, you have judges with a small number of cases, which also applies to the prosecution, and that you have some places where they have objects over their heads and they can't handle that number of cases, while some others do nothing, turn their hands because they don't have enough cases. Is this problem that exists and that you initially registered supposed to be solved by one of these massive reorganizations, of which there will be nothing? Secondly, your argument for this law was, which I don't think is a legitimate argument, you can't use an argument without research data, to tell us that the people in the municipalities have "run off." What does that mean, "taliled"? This means that the judges, prosecutors and police have made some kind of too friendly relationship and that they are working to harm the citizens, because through this closeness they have established they have become corrupt. It's not a legitimate argument, to make them act as one group in all municipalities, not alone enough in their work, to negotiate. You could've handled it the other way. You have to expose it to some neutral data, not to throw away all the justice and the justice department, that everyone is working as some sort of unauthorized "settled" institutions, which hold some kind of communication between themselves that is not allowed. You had to do research, so you had to use completely neutral data on it. Otherwise, when you say they're all working by "running off," what does that Serbia look like? It seems offensive to me, that you have cited as an argument for such a huge reform of these seats and areas and the whole and, as I say, the architecture of the judiciary in Serbia. First of all, your argument wasn't convincing. She's offensive. If it's true, you had to show it to some other factual, investigative argument about it, not a moral argument, which really seems very inconclusive. I ask you a question, why is this happening in Belgrade now? Why are you reducing the number of courts and prosecutors in Belgrade when there is no indication that they were sitting unemployed? Why is that? You really can't see that. And the question is, could this have been solved by some courts, where there really wasn't enough work, being removed and attached to someone closest, instead of this whole building, from which there would be nothing? Finally, let me ask you the next question, since every year... Now we have the Code of Criminal Procedure that didn't come; you know that prosecutors are taking over the investigation, they said it wasn't feasible, so we didn't appreciate it in this same assembly, so now we have to postpone it again and finally come out with an argument that it's not real. What was about the criminal proceedings was inconclusive, it was wrong. We're putting it off again. He should go back to the old Criminal Procedure Act. We do it all the time, every year in December. Will you come, Mrs. Malovic, next year in December to ask for a postponement? I guarantee you here, let's play some Russian roulette and say we cut our fingers off. What are we supposed to do, convince you that you're going to be looking for, absolutely, these dishes? None of this architecture will be. You've got seats and closets and all that... So when are you gonna do it? When are you going to make this, to move those basic courts? You're going to leave this printing here, these basic units, so these appeals, so cassation, when are you going to do it? When will it start to work? It's important to be functional. The whole idea of this law is to create a functional, efficient judiciary. I'm telling you, you're coming. I don't know if you were there at the time, no, you weren't, we also delayed the State Administration Act. We were just looking forward to it because it took effect in July 2005 – none of it was. We're holding back all those party personnel, and the intention was good, to really introduce an effective, neutral administration. It wasn't any of it. Every year we do it, we delay some ideas. Since I'm a sociologist, I'm not a lawyer, it's a terrible discouragement for our citizens. We are constantly in a position to show a high level of lack of capacity for such reforms, as you predict. It comes to me some time to say -- gentlemen, let's have ten laws in Serbia, but to apply those ten laws. Neither are court decisions, nor are laws applied. We're a paper factory here. We make laws, we produce papers. Nothing worse for the court, for the prosecution, for the citizens, for the trust of the state authorities, than for them to be the papers that are produced here, and then for there to be no realisation, and for the next year, in December, by the way, at some point in the night, your reform is delayed again. Since you are not going to make it, because people are making convincing arguments that this is as you imagined it to be inconclusive, then next year the Assembly is going to postpone this kind of reform, until there's a situation that's inconclusive, as was the case with the prosecution, that the prosecution will take over the investigation, etc. Not investigative judges. You know how it is with that. Now we're getting it back, now you don't know what to do with it, and you're doing this. So we're hoarding up a new inaccessible. Secondly, it creates one feeling of complete social disorganization in this society. So, we're a disorganized society that's always on the verge of decomposition. To avoid that, it would have been better if you'd gone on some simpler method, if, for example, you had attached those courts that didn't have enough work to some nearest court and walked gradually, instead of this building you built, that would have been nothing. Really, please answer - why Belgrade? Well, Belgrade is overcrowded. There's always the D.A.'s office and courts, so they're gonna go over there, they're gonna go over there, you don't even know what it's for. You see, the Association of Judges, listen to Mrs. Boljevic talk last night in that "Polygraph"... The judges are again acting like they're some kind of professional cobbler association, they're only interested in their salaries, pensions, they're not interested in these courts. No comment on what has been discussed in the Serbian Parliament for days, this very important proposal for a law on seats and areas, none of which Mrs Bolevic has anything to do with it. The Judges' Association, what are they doing? They're only interested in that re-election, those final provisions of the judge's law and the High Council of the judiciary. Now, that: whether there will be politicisation or not. Look, we can't stop politicizing in any way, just to tell you that. There is no way to prevent politicisation until the moment people who are in power say no, we will no longer do so. As long as there is no such political will, there is nothing you can do to prevent politicisation, whether it's the President of the Court or the President of the Court. Yes, it's a smaller number now, so they say it can be made easier, but is it the intention of the authorities to go further into politicisation or is it not the intention of the authorities to move on? So when this one decides it won't, and any system can make it possible to politicize. So that's why I think they're wrong, because now it's possible to politicize and now we're criticising that politicization. There's no way to prevent politicisation unless both state and government want us to have a politicized judiciary anymore. As long as a politicized judiciary is wanted, it will be in any way and need to know. And when it comes to this, they have no objection, the Association of Judges; the greatest scaler that is made by reform, and they have no objection. So now I ask the question, if you show up here next year in December with the delay of this reform, will you say, "Here, Minister Malovic, I am resigning because I failed to make this reform?" Now, come out and promise us that, so we'll interrupt this debate, and we'll have your resignation, unless you've succeeded in this. It really doesn't make any sense to stall any longer, because it's really impossible for days to continue a debate where it's shown that this is going to be a failed reform, that it's going to be invaluable. I don't know if it's a matter of stubbornness to take something out, if you can accept any of that argument and fix this situation or promise to... But you know what, after all, who else has to answer for this? Why would it be just you? I really hear from everyone that this reform of yours is invaluable and that you're not going to succeed, and I see that many people are not malicious and are not exclusively party-oriented when they say it, so it's not that they just want to get promoted or that they're kind of wasting their time. I have the impression that some people are honest on this subject, that they really don't trust us and that we've lost days and days. I ask the question, is there still time to maybe save something that can be saved, to give up something, to simulate something, to simplify something, and maybe that reform looks more like success? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9873	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9874	On the basis of the members, of course, 225 and 226, I would like to ask the government a question, specifically, only to the Prime Minister. I absolutely have no intention of asking the question to the competent minister, nor will I ever ask, at least in this term, while I hope for the last time, the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is about Mladjan Dinkic. So, specifically only the Prime Minister. So far, I've been with the workers of the Slave Houses of Belgrade, they're currently sitting outside this building where the President of the Republic is sitting, asking him to take them back because he made them one promise a few months ago when they were with a delegation and there was nothing about that promise. I'm not surprised, but they're surprised, since it's the President of the Republic, he's also made promises of 200,000 new jobs, so now he says he'll defend the existing one. In fact, these people don't respect the contract. Mladjan Dinkic says -- the problem of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" has been solved. It's not solved. The part that has been sold and privatized has been solved, but the problem of these people in this part of the company that is in bankruptcy has not been solved at all. So they don't get as many internships per year as they're promised, as they're told in the process, as far as the issue of "the slave houses of Belgrade" was concerned. Then, the property sold through this bankruptcy process is not sold at the price needed, we have more examples, in order for these people to get severances in the way they should get it. It is sold at a price 10-15 times lower than the market value. I ask the question to Prime Minister Cvetkovic: when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia fulfill what it has promised the workers of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" and when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia fulfill what the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic promised them? These people are in this cold, in winter, in front, they have no other option. On the other hand, there's an independent union outside the government, and it looks like what we've warned you about has already started to happen. The police are all over town. Now I want to demand one more thing as a People's MP: don't let the police be placed in front of the National Assembly, there's no need. We MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia do not fear these people who are coming, we do not need protection from them, we want to talk to them and we do not need police cordons. If Boris Tadic needs them, we don't. In 2003 and the chairman and I were at a meeting, as MPs, with certain unions; there was a great crowd outside the National Assembly, there were many police and there were injured workers outside the National Assembly building, which was a disgrace to the Assembly. Now I'm warning ahead and I'm saying, "Don't go to the police in front of the National Assembly." We are the people's messengers, these people who come here are the people, it's our job to talk to them and to put up with whatever they want and whatever they intend to have. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. For those in need of protection, it does not have to be in the National Assembly. So this is a question for the Prime Minister. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9875	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill provides that there is only a municipal public prosecutor's office in Smederev. I have submitted an amendment to suggest that, besides this municipal public prosecutor's office, there is also a municipal public prosecutor's office in the Great Plan. Thanks to the courtesy of the municipal public prosecutor in Plana, Mrs Vesna Ivanovic, I have prepared a number of data on the volume of work and the results of the work of the District Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plana, which can draw the conclusion that there are legitimate reasons that there is a municipal public prosecutor's office in the Great Plan. But I'm not going to be here today. I'm not taking them out for three reasons. The first reason is that it is obvious that the draft law did not manage the interests of the profession, did not manage the facts, the results of the work, the scope of the affairs which have judicial and prosecutorial units, but some unknown reasons, which are obviously unclear to the MPs, regardless of whether they are from the opposition or ruling parties. The second reason is that I believe that in the defense of the amendments that I have proposed the existence of a basic court in the Great Plan and the Grand Plana infringement court, I have already presented enough arguments to defend the current amendment. The third reason is that in the past five days, as long as the debate on this bill is held, there are indeed enough facts here that have only one single conclusion, there are no grounds for the adoption of this bill, i.e. that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure. Since today is Human Rights Day, and on the agenda are topics from the judiciary, I will take this opportunity to say a few words on human rights violations, on the human rights of citizens of Serbia originating in Croatia. I'll list a few drastic examples of violations of their human rights. A few days ago, I was talking here about the case of Zeljko Knezevic, the inhabitants of the Great Plane. Željko Knezevic is on the Interpol warrant. He was sentenced 10 years ago by the County Court in Zadar to 20 years in prison. The verdict says that Zeljko Knezevic beat up a Croatian prisoner so brutally as a guard in Knin military prison that this unfortunate person succumbed to injuries. As I said a few days ago, Zeljko Knezevic was never a member of the Serbian military police force, which provided those prisons, never in his life entered a prison in Knin, and this case has nothing to do with it. For ten years now, over various NGOs have been trying to come to justice, to carry out a fair trial, but everything is without results, the man remains, neither guilty nor obliged, on a warrant and, practically, in prison, cannot travel anywhere outside Serbia's borders. I really ask the Minister of Justice to address the Ministry of Justice in this case to the Ministry of Justice of Croatia and to find a solution to this case. The next case I'm going to talk about is the case of Svetozar Karan from Korenica. Svetozar Karan was sentenced to seven years in prison for crimes he and his ancestors committed 500 years ago, you heard well, 500 years ago, in a joint criminal enterprise they committed, I read, "together with the Ottoman Turks". Svetozar was arrested in 2000, when he returned to his hometown after five years of exile (those five years spent in Serbia). In prison, he learned that in the meantime, the state's prosecutor's office charged him with war crimes and was sentenced to 13 years in prison. In the light of this Draconian verdict, it is said, among other things, that "It is obvious that the accused Karan has returned to Croatia, because he realized that Croatia is in such a state that it will quickly and simply disappear from the stage of the world, because the Croats are dissatisfied with their status, and there may be such dissension between them that he will again ask someone to sit on their backs again, as it was 900 years ago, and in the last 80 years, the indictee and his ancestors, who enjoyed the coat of arms," literally states in the explanation of the verdict, which was dictated by the judge of the County Court in Gospico Branko Milanovic. The verdict goes on to say: "Now all those criminals who committed genocide against the Croats not only in this war, but, along with others, have done so for 500 years, since the arrival of Osmanli, when the Ottomans came and destroyed the Croats together, and since they brought these parts to Yugoslavia and practically destroyed them in certain areas, now they want to take what is as far as Osmania came, and together with the Ottomans until the defendant and his ancestors came." Practically, there is absolutely no evidence in the explanation of the verdict of any crime committed by Svetozar Karan. Since this famous argument has become the subject of discussion, the subject of comments and, practically, a joke in European legal circles, in the Supreme Court of Croatia have abolished this shameful verdict by Judge Milanovic, they have returned the proceedings to the beginning. In the retrial of Svetozar Karan, instead of 13, he was sentenced to seven years in prison. I've watched that verdict, I've got it here, but I wouldn't read it. In the verdict there is literally no concrete crime that is proven, which is allegedly committed by Svetozar Karan. The second case is the case of old woman Ivanka Savic from Vukovar, who was convicted of war crimes at the time of her 78 years of life. She was sentenced by the County Court in Vukovar in January 2004 to a four-and-a-half year sentence. Ivankin's war crime is seen in what it says in the verdict, which was in April 1992 for enemy soldiers, it is likely for the soldiers of the Yugoslav Army, showing Croatians who defended the city, intimidated Croatian civilians, and now listen to this crime: Croatian Maria Blažinić, with whom she lived together once under the same roof, allegedly stole sheets, dishes and other, literally writing less valuable things. So less valuable things than dishes and sheets. That's why she was sentenced to four and a half years in prison. What's interesting is that after 15 days of allegedly committing this crime, Ivanka Savic left Vukovar and went to Osijek to live there. So she didn't go to Belgrade, to Novi Sad, she didn't go to Serbia. She left RSK territory and went to live in Osijek, which was controlled by Croatian authorities, under occupation. It is simply amazing that the court did not find it appropriate to ask itself a logical question: would anyone who committed a war crime against Croats flee Serbian territory and go to live in the territory he holds under the occupation of the Croatian army commanded by Branimir Glavas? Now what's most interesting. The verdict was made based on the testimony of this unfortunate Maria Blažinić. The judge asks Marija Blažinić: "Ms. Blažinić, in April 1992, when the crime took place, whose control was Vukovar? "and she says, "Mr. Judge, I don't know." So much for the credibility of her testimony. The woman testifys, the judge takes for granted everything she said about bed sheets and stuff, condemns this other accident to four and a half years in prison, and Mary, a crown witness, doesn't know that it's been seven or eight months before this alleged crime took place in the hands of the JNA. The third case is the case of Milan Brakus from Zalužnica near Otoc. He was arrested by Croatian police when he joined the UNHCR. They put a man in jail, and then it turns out he's neither guilty nor charged. However, the man could not stand to learn that he had been sentenced to ten years in absentia and committed suicide by hanging himself in prison. The next case is Dane Milovic from Grazac near Skradin. A man is 45 years old, was arrested after returning to his hometown from persecution in Serbia. He says, "By telling the Sibenik-Knin Police Administration since 24 October 2003, the public has been informed that Milovic was arrested on suspicion that he committed a war crime against prisoners in 1991." Details of these crimes, Milovic and the Croatian public, were only found out at the trial before the court's larger County Court in Sibenik. Judge Dalibor Dukic chaired. The first alleged victim and witness Milan Brajkovic said that after the capture, the defendant Milovic hit him twice in the ass and, watch out for what crime, called the Ustasha, and Brajkovic was wearing a black Ustasha uniform when he was struck. Witness Milan Perak came to court to complain that Milovic hit him with his hand in the back when he was captured. The third witness, Ante Matic, testified that a reserver caught him by the hair and hit him in a pillar with his head. He claims in his statement that Milovic had nothing to do with it, Milovic was not there. But Milovic was a backup sergeant in that unit and, by command responsibility, the County Court sentenced this unfortunate person to several years of imprisonment. This doesn't seem normal, but when you have an abnormal situation, regardless of whether it's Serbia's judiciary, whether it's the BiH judicial authorities or the Hague tribunal, we have a situation where Serb military and police commanders are sentenced to years of imprisonment under command responsibility because a Serb was harassed by one of the Croatian or Muslim civilians out there somewhere at Jajc or Visegrad. When you have a situation like this, then it's no wonder that this unfortunate reserve sergeant was convicted of command responsibility because one of his neighbors hit the pole with the other neighbor's head. After carrying out these evidence, regardless of all bias, Judge Dukic was left with nothing but to conclude that two kicks with his foot and one punch in the back, regardless of the Serbian foot and the Serb hand, and the Croatian buttock and Croatian back, however, is not a war crime. He changed that verdict to, I quote, "a cruel treatment against prisoners of war", which is a crime under Croatian law. Fortunately for this lucky man, Milovic, or the unfortunate, there was an obsolescence of the crime, and he was then released. However, the man was neither guilty nor due for several months in prison. There are more cases, but I won't bother you. Now put yourself in the position of this unfortunate man, Željko Knezevic, who lives in the Great Plan. His parents live in Knin. He hasn't seen his parents in ten years. His sister lives in Holland and calls him to come to Holland and work there, because Big Plan doesn't have a job. However, a man simply must not leave Serbia's territory. He referred to all possible addresses that were available to him. He hasn't received an absolutely no answer yet. He even got a statement of judgment that does not state the name of a man who has suffered injuries. I ask you once again to forward this case to the Ministry of Justice of Croatia, to ask them for an explanation and to solve this case. Once again, I urge the ruling majority to adopt this amendment and set up a municipal public prosecutor's office in the Great Plan, although I have one better proposal – to withdraw this bill from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9877	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9878	I support my colleague Dusan Maric's amendment. It comes down to what it comes down to and my amendment to courts, which I already explained a few days ago. The debate takes a long time, MPs are trying to convince the minister or to adopt that amendment, Milice Radovic, or to withdraw the law. When we look at this example of the Danube County, the municipalities of the Great Plan and the Smederjevska Palanka have over 100,000 inhabitants. The Danube County is one of the smaller, with only three municipalities, but it is one of the most populated and, on the other hand, one of the most economically developed. Of the ten largest exporters in the country, three are from the area of the district. It's really very strange, I don't know, I repeat again, what criteria they were. We've been asking for days what criteria they were, and we can't possibly get an answer to make this kind of network of courts. We know there's obviously no criterion. It was obviously done in a hurry: A, B, V, but I think they used to have system A, B, C, than A, B, V, but good. On the other hand, I'm going to set another specific example for that district. For example, for years we from that district have been trying, and otherwise I'm from Smederev, to convince the authorities that it is necessary to create and open a business court in Smederev, not a business unit. With all due respect, Požarevec has twice the size of Smederev, a smaller town; the Danube County has a far stronger economy than Braničevski County. Far be it from me, I'm not asking for an economic court to be abolished at the Fireman's Court. On what criteria is a commercial court in Pogorevec and not in Smederev? It's just amazing. He's got to be in Smeder's business court, so he can stay in the firehouse. Could it be sold "Sartid" as sold? Could the jurisdiction be transferred to Belgrade's economic court, or then trade or I don't know what it's going to be called now? Who's in charge of U.S. Steel now? Is Belgrade, is the Fireman? The best and most logical thing would be to have Smeder's jurisdiction. There's a prison, there's a CZ, it can go to Smederev, there's room to make a prison, if necessary. On the other hand, look at the Smederev prosecutor's office now, all of you follow it back for years; the actions show that Smeder's best example is good police and prosecutorial co-operation, that it is obvious that police and prosecutors are cooperating in the district. Now they need to be burdened with what is done in the territory of Plane and Smederevska Palanka. Em, which solves the Kragujevac cases, which transfer Terzici from Belgrade to Smederevo to solve, should now be resolved by all from the Plan, from Smederjevska Palanka. As a colleague from SVM here said, it looks like it is now necessary to make some huge holes in the judicial system in Serbia. Who's he using? Citizens don't have money, as they would say in Vojvodina, they don't have money. So, for 50 euros, the average profit in Serbia is lower now than it was in September. They have no money to come, to travel ten, twenty, fifty, one hundred miles, and to seek justice for themselves, and to have justice available to them. They don't. Look out, I repeat, the workers of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" are outside the presidency building, the Independent Union in front of the government, just beginning. Salaries obviously won't grow. This government tells us we won't be hungry, we won't be barefoot, we won't be naked, we won't live better and we won't have any of the 200,000 new employees, we're defending jobs. In the end, through these marketing moves, Boris Tadic will succeed if only 200,000 people lose their jobs, not 200,000 new jobs; a man will have a terrible success if he defends his job from losing more than 200,000 people in Serbia. How? The man made it, he defended it, he rolled his sleeves, came to Saturday, rolled his sleeves like Barack Obama, and defended his jobs. How can there be justice available to these people? How do these people from "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" get justice? Who's going to pay them the way? Who's going to pay for the court register? Everything you do, the system is completely inappropriate right now. Whoever says this is what the European Union is asking us to do is not telling the truth. The EU does not interfere with what our internal system will be. He's not getting involved in this at all. It's true that we should pass the law, but it's not true that it should look like what you suggested. That's absolutely not true. It is not savings, and it will prove that it is not savings, but happiness, so it will not live because it is due from 1 January 2010, and until then this government will not last. But what do we do? The reconstructions are now being announced, another man in the government announces that reconstruction is desirable. In this whole situation, we're wasting our time, the opposition is being accused because he wants to help this country and this people, giving amendments not to make obstructions but to prevent you from passing bad laws. On the other hand, a large number of amendments have also been made by MPs to the ruling majority. I've checked, now I've spoken to some MPs of the ruling majority, there's no such thing as this moment, while I'm behind the pay phone, most of it is to pass this bill. Now I'm telling you as ministers, you're probably ready to convince, but I'm telling you, there's not a lot of people to pass this law. There are MPs sitting here, very little, from the ruling majority who are likely to have to vote for the law because of party discipline and not for this law. They talked to me and they're sitting in this room, there's a few of them, there's a camera, there's a few of them, and they're sitting in the O.R., and they know they're not up for it. But that's why he came to Saturday's uncle who turned his sleeves on his shirt, without a tie, President of the Republic, and with his finger he said, "Be careful what you do, I'll change you." Let's see how it changes Dinkic, how he'll change Dacic if he doesn't work well, and he doesn't work well. What about Panic? What about that case? And it's the judiciary and it's the prosecution. How far did it go? Half of Athens burned down, Greece's on fire because a police officer shot a citizen. A police officer apparently killed a Serbian citizen here. The minister says, I keep the text, in an interview (it is impossible for the minister to interview without authorizing it), that the police officer who dumped Panic had no intention of killing him. In other words, the minister knows who he was talking about and he's already deciding if he had any intention, if he wasn't going to, if it was out of trouble, if it was like this, if it was like that. It gives itself the right. So in Greece, where the word "democracy" was created, he could not be a minister for two seconds. Nothing, you sit, you're calm, you don't blink, nobody's waiting for everyone to forget. The family certainly won't forget what happened to her, but while you're sharing cookies in the Assembly, you're waiting for the public in Serbia to forget what happened. He won't forget. So, when we talk again about the prosecutions, what are these Belgrade prosecutors doing? From Tom Zoric on TV, you can't live, and nothing about the Panic case. There's nothing to say about that. I told my colleagues who were looking for a commission, so the report from the MUP board, that there was nothing there, that's old communist methods. You make a commission to cover your tracks. What are the authorities doing? What's the police doing? What's the D.A.'s office doing? What are the courts doing about it? We're talking about democracy, we're talking about the European Union. Here, Greece is in the European Union. What would happen here to those who would organise such protests by the media they control, and seems to control everything, Boris Tadic? It's an infancy approach to politics. When siblings fed children the way commercials talk to children on TV, children would only eat chocolates and candy, they would never eat anything healthy. This is the approach to Boris Tadic's politics. So he takes a nice research, sees that Serbia's biggest fear is of losing his job and twists his sleeves and says, "I will defend your jobs." It doesn't matter what he promised them two months ago 200,000 new jobs. It's childish and it'll be recognized eventually. It can't take long and it's unserious, but because of your inconclusive state gets hurt, the state has problems and these citizens have problems. You can talk about how you have a diplomatic victory, about Eulex, but for nothing. When they are placed on the administrative line (and on the other hand they consider it a border, not an administrative line), when customs crossings are placed, when they come to the customs office with the EU flag that says "Eulex", they will not come home as Lassie, but will stay there long because you have made it possible for them. When these customs offices are set up and when they start applying the laws, decisions and regulations of the government of Kosovo and the assembly, which Kosovo, Hashim Thaci and everyone else, what do you say then? Then what happens when these customs officers start applying those laws? I asked you the same question, I assume you're in charge of the courts and in Djakovica, Prizren, Strptac, Zubi's stream? Or do you end them there all so that there is nothing that is the institution of the Serbian state down there? What happens when Judge Eulexa, a Finnish cousin of Ahtisaari, condemns an Albanian, a Serbian citizen, by the laws adopted by the Pristina Assembly, the Kosovo Assembly? What's that? Does EULEX and the EU help build an independent Kosovo or not? What diplomatic victory? You can keep doing that for a while, but the truth can't hide, it's too obvious. We'll fight to make the citizens know as much about it as possible, no matter how RTS carries on how we entered with the charters to do an obstruction of work that night. He can transmit whatever he wants, that's not true. It is well known what was done that day and what materials are ready to be spoken of and what. You can't ruin Serbia like that. You are destroying the institution of Serbia and destroying what makes Serbia a state. How long? When will it be over? In 2009, the EU will study feasibility for Kosovo and Metohija. Then what? Is that a diplomatic victory? So shall we continue European integration? So are we going to ask them to defrost our trade agreement and SPP? But they won't unfreeze at all, and we're going to apply it unilaterally, so we're going to make up... Here, the Minister has retired, I'm glad, I've spoken to the speaker several times about it, you can't do the rich a favor when you're applying unilaterally and to the harm of the poor. Three times you wanted to raise car registration fees; it said the minister temporarily gave up. You'll give up forever because you won't be ministers in this government for long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9879	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I'm setting a break. The afternoon session starts at 3:15 p.m. with a debate on details of article 9 on which the amendment was submitted by MP Draga Damnjanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9880	On the occasion of the title of the text in one daily list, respected colleagues and colleagues, who are calculated on the degradation of MPs and the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is otherwise launched by one of the MPs, the Information Service of the National Assembly will address the media, noting that the epilogue and information can find its place in the institutions dealing with the protection of rights and legal order, with the possibility of giving appropriate sanctions. We estimate that the representatives of information funds are most often accompanied by the work of the National Assembly and are doing their job professionally and correctly informing the public about the course and results of the assembly sessions. I would also like to inform you that the delegation of the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions and the Confederation of Free Trade Unions has requested a meeting with me and that they have highlighted the basic problems of their associations, which are more than 300 members, which they have also pointed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and which is the basic content of the following: that the Social and Economic Council and the Union of Employers are absolutely not representative, that they want to start the social dialogue as soon as possible to address these problems in the metal and industrial complex and public enterprises. They pointed to the problem of the present way of privatising large systems. On behalf of all MPs, I have received this delegation. I have informed the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of their requests in writing, because all the issues they have raised are mainly in the domain of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is also an explanation why Mrs. Komic led a part of this session. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the legislator considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word for Mrs. Radet. I would take the opportunity to say that, in accordance with all the explanations I've given in the previous days, and related to the importance of the sitting and the points that are on the agenda, we will still be working after 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9881	How long are we gonna be working time?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9882	We'll work until the end of the point, because we have 12 more amendments. We'll be working until 9:00, in accordance with the arrangements we have with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9883	I thought, of course, on time, because on Monday we were the victims of a big misunderstanding in your absence, when we couldn't agree and get the right interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. That's why I wanted to be clear to the end. You're saying we'll continue to work after 6:00, given the importance of the agenda point. Of course, this is a very important point and for that very reason we use the time the Rules of Procedure gives us and based on which we can talk about exactly what the subject of the agenda is. It's judicial reform. We are now talking about what is related not only to this law, but to all seven laws in the field of justice. We have been trying for days to convince a representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia that what the government is planning with the judiciary has nothing to do with reform. On the contrary, if these laws were to be applied, instead of one serious reform in the area of justice, chaos would arise. The chaos will have a negative impact on all Serbian citizens, as all Serbian citizens have some kind of touch and some connection with judicial authorities, so it doesn't have to be just people who are suing or being sued. Simply, in the bodies of the judiciary, many other things end up being of daily importance to the citizens of Serbia, of which any belief, first of all, is, let's say, assurance of impunity, which is needed for every citizen who needs to take out a passport, ID card and some other documents, to be employed in state authorities, state administration, local self-government, justice. This will be, for example, one of the problems that citizens will face because of such a network of courts, i.e. judicial authorities as predicted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When I said that many citizens have contact with the judicial authorities, we haven't talked, say, about witnesses these days. We'll have a problem with the application of this law, from how to provide a witness, how to "make" witnesses go 100 or 50 kilometers away from their place of residence. What's the cost going to be? Who's gonna pay him a lost profit for that day? You know, today most people, in fact everyone who isn't employed by state authorities, works in private enterprises; there are times when someone can say - I have obligations in court, so he goes away and doesn't come back all day to work. All of this has to be justified. Of course, those who do not work on that day will not receive adequate compensation for that day they would get to work. So it's a new aspect that's being imposed as a problem in the application of all these laws. This concrete amendment submitted by counterpart Dragi Damnjanovic refers to Article 9(1) where he proposes a new point after the existing point 6). This article refers to the main public prosecutor's office. I don't think a colleague would be angry, it doesn't matter if this new point is 7), 16, 19, 33), it doesn't matter, the point is that a colleague suggests that there is, within the framework of this network of public prosecutors, and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Zagubia, of course, for the area of the basic court in Zaguvica. A colleague, in line with his amendment, said that the amendment is imposed as a legal necessity in the event of the adoption of an amendment already submitted to Article 3. The bill, and I remind you, Article 3 refers to a network of basic courts. We again have an explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia why the amendment is not accepted, and it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the same reason as the amendment of MP Milovan Radovanovic, also on article 9 of this law. Now we need to find the amendment of Milovan Radovanovic, which is the 90th amendment in a row and we are now on the 97th amendment. The government says it does not accept the amendment because amendments to Article 3 have not been accepted. The proposal for a law governing the establishment of a seat and the area of jurisdiction of the basic courts cannot therefore be accepted either by amendments relating to the establishment of a seat and the area of jurisdiction of the main public prosecutors. It must be acknowledged that this argument of the Government this time is indeed in line with the government's truly obvious view that they are sticking to this proposal, which would say, who is drunk, and that there is no appeal of MPs and opposition and the assembly majority that something must change in this bill. This leaves only two options: either to accept the amendment to Article 3, which was submitted by counterpart Milica Radovic and then to accept all other amendments, or to make an even better solution, quite certainly more meaningful and celery, whether the government withdraws this bill. We have 10 or 12 amendments, so you still have time, gentlemen of the government, to satisfy the will of the MPs, but the citizens of Serbia and the professional public, and of course the MPs who are here are representatives of the citizens. Indeed, I don't know if there would be anyone so persistent that I don't say stubborn, like Mrs. Malovic, that she smiles neatly, to watch us, to listen to us, to sit here. I don't blame her for not being here right now, I don't mention her for that. Aroundly, all MPs who speak make similar arguments, and this is not in the case of MPs, stubbornness is because we want to influence the government's representative to do something in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That we do not speak for the sake of order, shows the fact that quite a number of amendments have also been submitted by the MPs of the congregation's majority. And I use this opportunity to take all colleagues who are determined to vote for these so-called. reform laws, all those who have submitted amendments to this bill, before all Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, I call on and call on, and as president of the Legislative Committee and as the man who defended his amendment here with many arguments, many facts and perfectly explained what he asked for by the amendment, should only yet not vote in favour of the bill in the day of voting because the amendment was not accepted. Then, colleague Ratkovic, be sure that the citizens of Ruma will be pleased that their MP, I think of you, is doing his job. Of course, fellow Martinovic, who is from the same place as you, as a kind of expert and a kind of lawyer explained why it is necessary to accept your amendment, but the citizens of Ruma cannot blame him for what they can do to you; he did everything to explain to the assembly majority and to the government's representative that this amendment should be adopted. But the citizens of Ruma can certainly know that on the day that fellow Martinovic is the assembly majority, if he is not a minister at the time, they can be sure that they can trust him when he promises to do something, unlike his fellow Members who only promised, they just told the story. That's the same story from this pay phone, assuming, probably, that it's important that they say and that their fellow citizens hear it, and that no one will see which button is pressed in the voting day, but the outcome of the vote will be obvious. So, I repeat, if all MPs who have tabled amendments to this bill vote against the law, or if they fulfil the will of their constituents, then this law will not have a congregation majority. If that is not the case, then it is the dishonest attitude of the MPs to their constituents, towards their fellow citizens. A special danger would be to make some kind of agreement only with individual MPs to adopt only individual amendments. Because there is no reason, as there is no reason for these 13 amendments adopted compared to these 94, I think, or 97 unaccepted. So it was obviously just a deal: some MPs of the parliamentary majority were resilient in talking to the government's representative, so they said they would certainly not vote for laws unless they were accepted by the amendment, and then the minister of the amendment accepted it. That is why it would be good for them to remain either persistent enough, or to show that they are indeed MPs and that the National Assembly and the Assembly majority are not under the conductor's stick of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a state body that has to listen, under quotes, but in any case, to listen to the voice of the people spoken through the MPs. Why is it necessary to adopt this amendment, like all amendments, when it comes to the basic and public prosecutors and later senior public prosecutors? Because really, as much as we repeat here that a large number, and that's true, the representatives of the judiciary are honest and honest people, we still have a lot of problems with those who are corrupt, with those who fulfil the powers of government, or executive authorities, the president of the state, of certain tycoons. A colleague, Vladan Jeremic, spoke about it: a representative, or president of a state body, Mrs Verica Barac, who otherwise receives a salary from the Republika Srpska budget, paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today said she would recognise Kosovo, in order to withdraw all charges and countersuits against what our neighbours say. There's no one here to react. It is literally a violation of the Constitution if heard from the mouth of someone who is a representative, or president of a state body. If we had a state prosecutor, and someone who wasn't biased and who would take care of the application of the Constitution, the interests of the state and the interests of the citizens of the state, we'd already have criminal charges against Mrs. Barac. But it can't happen for the simple reason why we don't actually have a state prosecutor, because Mr. Radovanovic, who is thus representing himself, is for almost two years a performer of duty, and the performer of duty within such an inappropriate time, can't call himself a state prosecutor anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9884	The word is Mr. Aligrudic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9885	This is about Zaguvica and the need to establish a public prosecutor's office for the area of the Zaguvica municipality. We talked about all of this in another way when it came to court-spreading. Practically, logic is the same and it is impossible not to support an amendment that relies on a previous amendment relating to the basic court in Zaguvica. As you can see from the text of this amendment, it is complementary: the prosecution is bound for the basic court in Zaguvica. We've already talked about missing the necessary criteria here to determine such a network of courts, prosecutors, criminal courts and higher court and criminal cases. This law is clearly the worst law in this entire set of judicial laws. For these other laws, people who are not professional must have a little trouble, consult, when it comes to what is poorly applicable or almost inapplicable in other sets of judicial laws, but for this law it is more than obvious. The proposed law wouldn't have caused so many amendments if it hadn't. As my predecessor said in his presentation... She did not say that, but I will say that, statistically, more than a quarter of the proposed amendments encourages the ruling coalition MPs, which is from the government of the Republic of Serbia or the resolution committee in the Serbian Parliament. What does that tell us? This does not tell us that MPs of the ruling coalition are particularly interested or show a special kind of activity when it comes to this bill or to a set of judicial laws, but shows a serious dissatisfaction with what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed. And it speaks of another fact -- that people from the field, whether it's people from the prosecution, courts or local self-government, who obviously communicate, talk to a part of what might be called the professional public in a broader sense, put appropriate pressure on the MPs, because those citizens who chose us all are also putting pressure on some MPs of the ruling coalition. That pressure is hard to resist and hence so many amendments to this set of laws, from the ruling coalition. It again indirectly says that the laws that came from the government of the Republic of Serbia are bad. I repeat, as I said then, that the way out of this situation is, at least when it comes to this proposed law, the withdrawal of the law from the procedure and going through one previous procedure that implies the maximum involvement of the professional public, when it comes to this bill, the way the network of courts is regulated, prosecutors, criminal courts, senior court cases, so that this would happen again on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, and that some valid criteria that are obviously left here would be applied. This incompetence in this proposal, this indifference in this proposal, if I may say so, is actually nothing surprising because indifference and incompetence is in all areas of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When I say the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia can hardly be called work, it can be called unhappiness. The other night we had a chance to see, some news and TV reporters were reporting on the so-called. Obstruction of the opposition in the work of parliament in small hours. That's amazing. How can there be an obstruction of the opposition in the work of parliament at midnight, one at midnight, half two at midnight? Parliament's work is obstructing the ruling majority, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is insufferable with the necessary bill to the National Assembly. No one has the right to call the opposition's MPs for obstructing parliament's work, an alleged brake, when parliament has nothing to do. We almost got the budget the other day. That budget should follow a series of laws, a set of laws we haven't even got yet. Someone who has taken the responsibility of running the state, proposing laws and organising next financial year has no right to scold the opposition for holding Parliament back, and one who is obliged to propose measures, regulations and everything else does nothing about it. That's rude and rude. This law, which we are discussing today, whose inconsistency is proved by any amendment referred to by each member of this bill, states in favour of the fact that this government has no more work to do than that of the customer representatives of the ruling majority who support it in this Parliament to discuss this bill as soon as possible, at the cost of working in the weather, which otherwise takes effect on 1 January 2010, and did not go before the MPs with any concrete measure or explanation of what is being taken to prevent the effects of the global economic crisis on the state of Serbia. She never came out with a key question answer -- what does it actually contain, in their version, six points that were accepted before the UN by Serbia? When it is said that EULEX, which was accepted by the Serbian state, is practically selling national interests, then, as a counterargument, it is said that both Russia and China voted for it. How won't Russia and China vote for something they see Serbia wanting to accept? What makes anyone here an idea that someone would be a bigger Serb than us? When I say that, I mean the citizens of Serbia and all the citizens of Serbia. How can you expect Russian representatives to oppose the proposal Boris Tadic is burning to be accepted to meet EU criteria, which will later turn into a new requirement for explicit recognition of Kosovo's independence to join the European Union tomorrow? How do you expect that to happen at some point? During that time, you are submitting to us the draft laws which are essentially pointless and you want to tell us, that's what one of your ministers is saying, Deputy Prime Minister, that the Serbian Parliament is a black hole because we allegedly don't. How come we don't work when we work? The proposal was tabled with 321 amendments, of which more than a quarter of the amendments were proposed by the ruling coalition, most of which were not accepted, some were, and there will likely be rotten compromises at the last minute. All the remarks that we have made here, including the remarks concerning this particular member of the bill and this concrete amendment, the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot give us an answer on what is the meaning of the standards proposed, where is the consistency of these standards seen, how will this work in practice, how much is it costing and how much is it the next day of justice in Serbia? This sends an extremely bad message, but it is only one in a series of bad messages that the government sends not only to the local public, but to the world public and to those who need to invest in Serbia the next day. It is a bad message sent to residents of the same country's particular areas, which will first be faced, next year, with a decline in investment, a drop in total earnings, and, in addition, with the decline in the interest of the ruling nomenclature in Serbia for their daily issues, and this will be one of their crown proofs. Has anyone thought about it? Obviously not. Since you haven't thought about it, and we can make you think we can't, because that's what we've been trying to do for days, obviously there's nothing from that job, we can only ask you to withdraw this bill. If you're asking us now why, we can only say - because how else can we explain it to you, we've gone on our heads explaining that nothing's wrong. Not only is it bad, it's very harmful.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9886	By amendment, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9887	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226, among other things, let me inform you that obviously some parts of the government are acting in accordance with the law, and the other part is not acting. This material I hold in my hand is the answer to the parliamentary question of Petar Jojic, related to Croatian companies that bought the country in Serbia. Just look, based on the answer, how much of this land has been redeemed. It might be simpler if Petar Jojic had asked a different question – how many other countries are left that are not sold to Croats and Slovenians? That's your effect for the past eight years. It's only a country here, and when you take how many companies there are, so when you add to that how many Slovenians bought, so when you add how many tycoons they bought, then you come up with a devastating fact that Serbia as an organized state is not there. There is an organized crime, headed by you, which destroys and robs the state of Serbia. It's just scary. We will not leave this material to the case, to inform you immediately, so that you may know, because I am sure that a huge number of MPs among you do not know what is going on and what is going on between you and what is going on. The material is sealed, but when it's all over, you'll get a chance to hear how much land is bought in total and, especially, where it's mostly bought in what part of Serbia. I didn't watch the material, but I guarantee that at least 90%, and maybe 100% of the country was bought out exclusively in Vojvodina. This is what we draw attention to all the time -- the long-term plans of those who want to disintegrate Serbia completely, to bring it down to pre-cuminary borders in their quest. One way they will do so is to buy land in Vojvodina by Croatian companies and individuals, so that they can do the job as easily as possible. That evidence is in these papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9888	Mr. Marash has a word for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9889	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, 225 and 226, and in accordance with Rule 77 of this Rules of Procedure. Today we held a session of the Privatisation Committee in the Serbian Parliament, attended by Minister Dinkic. It is two days after the meeting of the Industry Committee, attended by Mr Skundric. We received two completely conflicting interpretations of the course of negotiations with a Russian NIS partner, as well as everything that follows. Since both ministers in the Serbian government... Please, Madam President, don't get overjoyed by the MPs. (President: Gentlemen of the Parliaments, I would ask you to allow the Messenger of Marash to be heard and to speak uninterruptedly. ) On Monday, on the Committee on Industry, Mr Skundric said he was not best directed to all secret negotiations with the Russians, but to participate in the negotiations. Today, the head of the negotiating team, Mr Dinkic, said he was last seated with a Russian delegation in October. He's not in charge of negotiations. Who's in charge of the negotiations? Mr Dinkic said yesterday the last meeting of the Serbian and Russian sides was held. What's the relationship of the Russians, gentlemen? A representative of Russia came to negotiations on an oil-gas agreement and 13 representatives of Serbia. That's what the Russians have to do with it. What did we hear from Mr. Skundric? A great deal for Serbia, we've got a lot more; don't let all this into the media, we've fooled the Russians, the malts. He said the Russians would invest more than 500m euros in NIS. He said the sale of NIS first, and then we'll agree, they promised us a firm promise that there would be a "South Stream" (will pass through Serbia) and a Banatski Dvor. Today we hear from Minister Dinkic, who is head of the negotiating team, that the Russians do not intend to invest 500m euros in NIS, but rather ask NIS to be in charge of a bank, playing the case of Russia, at 9% interest, and is then revised to 6%. It's not in the agreement, gentlemen, that ratified this assembly. It's not gonna happen. Mr Skundric said -- fortunately, with the ability to negotiate, we had to go beyond the legal framework of the agreement to improve Serbia's position. Mr Dinkic, also minister in the Serbian government, says today -- we have not come out of the legal framework of the agreement once, nor will we allow it, because the Serbian Parliament, you MPs have not given the government the mandate to step outside the framework of the agreement. You can't negotiate what's not written there. The Russians are also looking for certain parts of our country. That's what we heard from the president, that they're okay with NIS selling first, and when the Russians can do the South Stream, first the feasibility study, and then we'll see. Today, Minister Dinkic said there is political consent and the Russian will to build a "South Stream", but economics cannot guarantee it. This congregation has been deceived. For this reason, we ask, in accordance with Article 77 of the Assembly, that, with the help of Mr Buha and Mr Nikolic, two presidents of the two competent committees, one for privatisation, one for industry, bring Minister Skundric, Minister Dinkic and see who is telling the truth. They've been trying to tell us for days that the media is carrying some information differently. Unfortunately, the ministers, one for energy, the other for economic development, in the same hall, gave completely different information to the MPs and the public within two days. Please, this is terribly important, Madam President, use your authority again. This is either a major success of Serbia or a major failure of Serbia. Someone here isn't telling the truth, someone's giving false information. Someone's cheating on the citizens. Someone's cheating on the MPs. Someone's lying, maybe, and the president. So we want to hear what's true, whether the Russians want the South Stream, is it safe to build it, why don't we sign the contract, or not? Are the Russians going to invest 500m euros or are they asking us to be in charge? I ask you to use your authority to convene both committees together and to hear from one and another minister who negotiates, how he negotiates, and what the topic of negotiations is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9890	I think it is quite correct to invite one and the other Minister, Mr Dinkic and Mr Skundric, to hold a joint session of the Privatisation and Industry Committee. I'm starting this initiative in public now. I ask the board presidents to agree on a term and, of course, call on the government representatives, or both of the ministers. Mrs. Judita Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9891	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members and MPs, can be downloaded from the Internet with regard to the investments needed for the modernisation of NIS, for the modernisation of our complete gas and oil potential. Namely, these are documents that are available to everyone and are "attached" on the NIS site a few years ago; among other things, the data is very important for this assembly, since we are constantly drawing attention to the sale of NIS, the national wealth of Serbia. For example, domestic gas production requires an investment of $40 million. That amount is needed to improve gas production in Serbia. I'm undermining 40 million dollars. Capital investment is needed to build a warehouse in Banatski Dvor, $200,000. Another capital investment is needed to build the southern leg of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad transport system, which is $60,000,000. When these numbers add up, that's $300,000. We're selling NIS to the Russians for half the market price, so instead of $400,000, we could get $800,000 for that part of NIS that's being sold. What does that mean? So that we, not to sell, not to give NIS to the Russians, or to the Russian state-owned firm, could do the modernisation of gas and oil production. Therefore, by giving NIS, the national wealth of Serbia, what are we doing? We're bringing one side of the state firm into a much more favourable position, giving it something that we really shouldn't. I've applied to Article 31, Art. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, because I want to refer the question to Minister Dinkic and Minister Skundric whether they agreed, how and why they do what they do, how and why they make these statements that they make, which are diametrically contrary to each other. For this reason, we both need to meet at the same time in the same place, so let them face their opinions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9892	National MP Zoran Ostojić wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9893	The Vice-President, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, is pleased to see that the president of the Assembly has responded this urgently and said that he will request this session of the two committees, attended by two ministers who, during the course of two days, speak completely the opposite of this agreement. It's just, I don't want that session to be held somewhere beyond the Serbian New Year. We ask that this session be held as long as tomorrow, because it has an announcement that this contract will be signed by the end of the year or by the end of the year. What is the essence of what Dinkic said today, and what can we check in dialogue with Mr Skundric? What we of the LDP have been saying – there is no business related and there is currently only sales and donations from this business, or it sells by law in direct contract, NIS, because only for this job will the contract be signed. The pipeline will be some kind of agreement, and whether the pipeline will be known when a feasibility study is conducted that was planned for some 2010 as the Russian partners said. For the Banatski Court, it's not an agreement, it's a memorandum. So, two non-binding papers and one binding contract that could tomorrow be the subject of some kind of arbitration, etc. All of you, on the one hand and on the other, whose heart is on the east side of your body and you who say your heart is on the west side of your body, voted for this agreement, except us. I don't think we can escape, as MPs, from this responsibility. We gave the government a mandate to conclude an agreement, i.e. three contracts, i.e. a business related, and therefore you convinced us that it was good to donate NIS without a tender, without establishing a market price, because of the pipeline and Banatski Dvor. Now that it's certain it won't be anything... Or maybe it will be, maybe Skundric is right and Dinkic is wrong, I don't know, so we're asking to clarify with the two of them. In any case, we LDP didn't vote for this state, interstate agreement and we're not ready to give the government a free hand to continue on this path because we didn't give them a mandate for this. You who convinced us that it was a good job, that it was three business-related jobs, maybe you're ready, I only appeal to your conscience that you take your part of the responsibility and say – we need to clear up what's going on, we haven't given the government a mandate to sell NIS, and that the pipeline is on "I come to you" and maybe never. Because today Dinkic said the Russians have the political will to make the "South Stream", but they do not know if there will be money, whether there will be circumstances, whether there will be crises etc. I think the threats that may be coming from the Russian side of us... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9894	National MP Jovan Nesevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of article 100, so MP Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9895	The Honorable Madam Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, it is true that today was the session of the Committee on Business and Privatisation, and it is true that today we discussed the conclusion of the treaty, that is what the Assembly has adopted here, which means an energy agreement with the Russian Federation. We need to be honest about what's been said today. It was said to be held tomorrow at a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Tomorrow, a meeting of the government will discuss a contract proposed by the Serbian side and what the Russian side has represented in the negotiations so far. So, personally, I mean, if anyone wants to schedule board sessions, it's good to schedule, but they should be scheduled after tomorrow's cabinet session, because the government will make a decision that goes further. Not Dinkic or any other minister, but the government, based on a report by the negotiating team. The second thing that is also important, which has been said today, is that MPs through the Committee on Economic Affairs and Privatisation will receive a copy of the contract signed by the Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic as minister and head of the negotiating team, which was sent to the Russian side at the end of October, which the Russian side did not even respond to. The last thing that has been said today is that if it comes out of the framework of an agreement adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at its session, then the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be asked to declare it. It is therefore clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at its session. So I think we should go back to the agenda points, leave this for tomorrow's government session, and then ask a question and see which way this is going to go. That's why I advertised Article 103's injury. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9896	National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9897	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Article 104. Of course, not because of what the previous colleague said, because I have to say it's what you said, but also what I said is true. That was all said, I didn't make it in four and a half minutes to say what we heard and what my predecessor said was true. Tomorrow it will be in the government, we welcome that initiative, because that is not what this assembly has been discussing and what this assembly has voted on. But I'm reporting under Article 104 because I really feel that the dignity of the congregation has been violated. In fact, I want to defend him, because one minister speaks one thing Monday, another minister talks the opposite of that today. So someone's not telling the truth or someone's got the wrong information or someone's negotiating, and we don't know they're negotiating. Or whoever's negotiating... As he says, the last time he negotiated in October, handed over the Russian foreign bid, the answer never arrived. I think it's terribly important that we know who's negotiating, what he's negotiating and what's going to be signed. Gentlemen, it should be much more insulting to you, you voted for an agreement to sign three contracts, you voted to sign three contracts tied up. Mr Dinkic said something that is true today – we agreed to sell 51% of NIS because we will get "South Stream", will pass through Serbia, there were fairy tales about capacity etc. And we'll get the Banatski Court, which will be able to accumulate the gas Serbia needs to spend. Under these conditions, you voted to sell NIS, 51%. Now it's a completely different situation. Or maybe not. Minister Dinkic, head of the negotiating team, says he is. He said he would ask the government tomorrow to decide what to do about it. He listens to the word, according to him, professionals and experts from the negotiating team who told him that the contract is harmful to Serbia. It is much more important for you that these negotiations don't take place the way you voted and I expect you to get involved, not now, perhaps on the board. So today it was like the Industry Committee. I must say, Madam Vice-President, on the Committee on Industry, when he was Minister Skundric, only the LDP MPs asked questions. No one else cares what's going on. Today he was Mr Dinkic, I can understand that, for an hour he was doing a presentation about privatisation, and in no word did he mention NIS. Isn't that right, Mr. Vlahovic? Mr Dinkic did not mention for one simple reason – since there is no privatisation of NIS. This isn't privatisation when you sell to another state 51%. On that side, I understand, but that no one, except for LDP MPs, shows any interest in which way these negotiations are going and what will be the consequences for Serbia, I cannot understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9898	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. As regards the first information and proposal, the National Assembly president agrees with the proposal and has notified that a joint session of the committee will be scheduled. The board presidents, Mr Nikolic and Buha, will hold a joint session of the board. Simply, your remark can only apply to the fact that you don't have a date and an hour right now, which is impossible; you just need to meet two board presidents and see where the minister is and whether he's going to be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. President of the Assembly... People's MPs are getting, "A little tomorrow." No, it'll be one of the next days. People's MPs are getting things I can't repeat. National MP Zoran Ostojić wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). There's no breach of Article 104. The board session will be held as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9899	I said that we accept this solution to be in the fastest time, okay, it has to be after the cabinet session. I'm reporting under Article 104, the dignity of the Assembly. You see, gentlemen, there's a rather cheerful situation in the O.R. and it's by you who voted in favour of this agreement. Mr. Todorovic, there may be organized crime, and what's going on around the deal is more than organized crime. Maybe this is some inter-state organised crime, I don't know, I just know that the NIS situation and this agreement is so serious for the state, with potential catastrophic consequences that generations that have nothing to do with this have nothing to do with it, that a little dignity in this assembly on such an important issue wouldn't be lacking. As for the ruling majority, I must tell you, on this issue, this government, which is considered reform, will prove whether the previous government is still ruling or whether we have a new government of Cvetkovic, Dacic and Tadic. That's the point. These are very serious things. This NIS has left no of the 220 MPs who ratified the agreement with Dad for the inheritance. So we heard some stories, and Dinkic didn't want to answer today, about threats, etc. If this situation were to be a joke and inconclusive, and it wasn't, I could say, if the Russian side is threatening us with arbitration, let's call Jeremic, he has experience with countersuits, so they're handing us a lawsuit and we're making them countersuits, or we're calling them the first lawsuit, maybe that's better. Because they don't respect the agreement if they only want NIS and they won't commit to these two things. Let's have someone strike a countersuit sometime. If they're threatening us with the flag, they won't let us export cars to Russia, it's not a threat. Here, the flag says so. Nor can the Fiat itself survive, it has to connect with some major car manufacturer, because it produces little cars, the whole Fiat bit. It's not much of a threat. Are they threatening to recognise Kosovo? My God, she confessed to 51 countries, 52nd, there won't be any beams. We have our constitution, which you all have ratified together. Therefore, while this constitution, Kosovo is in Serbia, we can so tell them and move on. I'm not kidding, it's not a joke at all, or we're going to have guarantees or we're just going to find out and put NIS on our feet and take it out in a year. If one of you believes that we're going to achieve less than 400,000 for 51%, then he doesn't understand the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9900	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. Your proposal may have a comment, but if any comment had been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I would have responded with a warning or a measure from the Rules of Procedure. The joint session will be scheduled for one of the next days, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, as soon as possible. All what the board members today seem to be clearly not clear enough or contradictory in the performances of the minister will be clarified. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9901	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Mrs. Comic, seem to be still feeling the effects of that night. At least you tried to honor some arrangements when running the congregation. I don't mean to transfer you, but I just feel sorry for all the trouble you're having. Regarding what Mr Ostojic was saying about the gas agreement and that they voted on both the left and the right, it is true, 214 MPs voted. It is one of the few votes where such a large number of MPs were somehow determined to support certain things on this matter, i.e. A gas deal with the Russian Federation. As far as the SRS is concerned, we would vote for that agreement again, and we will vote, in the belief that the gas agreement is good for the state of Serbia, based on all the data we could come to, that is, on the data presented to us. Whether there's something else behind it or not, we really can't tell you because we don't have that information. You're taking it out for a pay phone now. As far as the chairman of the Committee on Industry of Mr. Milorad Buha is concerned, he will make an appointment; as far as he is concerned, the SRS, there is no problem in making an appointment as far as tomorrow and meeting that obligation so that the information that you have brought here to the Serbian Parliament can be checked through that committee, means, and the Privatisation Committee or whatever else, if necessary. As far as we're concerned, we're not going to do a single thing to hide any information not only from the MPs but also from the citizens of Serbia. We aim to make all the information available to Serbian citizens for every job in this country, especially when it comes to this gas agreement. I'm still convinced that the gas deal is good, but there are certain problems in the government. There is one part, I believe, which is for that agreement and another part, and that minority, which is not for that agreement, with one part saying it out loud, is Mladjan Dinkic, and these "yellows" are hiding behind it... (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure. I said 103, for God's sake, Mrs. Comic. (President: National MP, if you had said Article 103, I would not have interrupted you in the third minute, we could have made an insight into the stenogram. I'm sorry, I'm done. That is the essence of the problem, which the Democratic Party is essentially expressing what it is aiming for. If they wanted to do it, they'd had a chance to do it for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9902	National MP Judita Popovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9903	Madam Chairman, Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, reporting on behalf of Members 31, 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I'd like to ask a few questions to the government. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Liberal Democratic Party has requested an assessment of the constitutionality of this agreement, an oil-gas agreement that this assembly has ratified. I remind you it's a tied agreement that predicts both this Southern Stream and the Banatski Court, and the sale of NIS. So it's about a whole agreement. We have an opinion on what kind of agreement we have, but let the Constitutional Court appreciate its constitutionality, but this is about the development of this agreement now. Therefore, it is no longer an agreement that this assembly has ratified. If this isn't about the deal, what's it about? I reiterate and emphasise the fact that we have only a hint that one contract will be concluded. It's a contract to sell NIS. We pointed out that it was a harmful contract, we said it was a damage over half because it's being sold under the price, directly by contract, that I'm not redecorating again why it's an illegal legal job, why it's being sold, instead of in the tender, by direct contract. It's a story that's been told a lot in this congregation. But again, I ask the question -- if we can give someone 400,000 euros at least, for that amount we are looking for a lower price than the Russian NIS, why don't we invest 300,000 euros ourselves and then do that warehouse in Banatski Dvor, build the South Stream and arrange our own domestic gas production in terms of modernisation? If we can do all this, then why is this oil-gas deal still as it is? And if there's no such thing as an oil-gas deal, obviously, and it doesn't exist, why are we still insisting on selling NIS below the price? Therefore, I believe that this congregation has the right to ask and to ask valid answers to these questions, since it does not sell every day national wealth. I keep pointing out -- national wealth, because if people are bound to be guilty of some petty theft and other crimes, then why do we allow national wealth to be alienated in this way, which is exactly one big damage, in the end of the case of one big fraud and theft, call it whatever you want, because if someone gets out of their pocket 400,000 euros, what is it but stealing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9904	National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9905	Articles 225 and 226. I have a question for Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Malovic. Mrs Malovic, the other day you asked me for an initiative by the Liberal Democratic Party, which she submitted to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the legality and constitutionality of the oil-gas agreement. I'd like to know if you've done anything with her, if you've asked the Constitutional Court for information, which is why she's been silent for three months. If a contract with the Russian side is signed, in fact, either the Russian side will be damaged, or one day when the Constitutional Court decides that this oil-gas agreement is contrary to the Constitution, someone has to suffer the consequences, so I wanted to see if you asked the Constitutional Court for any information, or if you got it. Mr. Todorovic, I just wanted to correct you into three things. So we do not present the facts that fell on us from Mars, we present the facts and convey the words of Minister Skundric and Minister Dinkic, on the other hand. We have not added a word, nor taken away, but We bring forth what they say. The second thing, the Liberal Democratic Party is in agreement with the G17 proposal and with what the vice president said, we want both committees at the same time and to have Minister Dinkic and Minister Skundric present. A moment ago, you mentioned a gas agreement, etc., I believe in the best of intentions. The problem is that you're being deceived, this has nothing to do with gas anymore, obviously it's just the oil industry. That's why we're fighting, and that's why we have to defend the agreement that we have submitted to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of constitutionality and legality. We need to get you to defend it, you didn't vote for it. I want to say that the LDP on this issue will no longer come forward, we are sufficient guarantees from the vice-president of the Assembly, Parliament President, Mr Todorovic, the only thing I ask is for Mrs Malovic to answer me. I must say that on the same day that 214 MPs voted for this agreement we were against and today we are against, unlike some who, for the sake of 160,000,000 more in Serbia's budget, swallowed this sale of NIS. At the time, they had a little 400,000 for NIS, and now they're obviously not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9906	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure or Replication?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9907	It's up to a member of 103. The Rules of Procedure, and so can the replica. I think we've made clear everything about this gas agreement and the undeniable fact about the SRS -- we're a party to the opposition and we have those opportunities that you have, that we're starting certain issues and, possibly, if we succeed, to somehow force the ruling majority to act on our demands. This section that is tied to the Assembly, which is a session of both committees, will not be disputed, as we have heard, and it will be held. I can only tell you, if the SRS were in power, that question wouldn't even be asked. No agreement, no agreement would ever be concluded against the interests of the Serbian state and there should not be much persuasion, I'm sure neither you nor the citizens of Serbia. I fully understand and understand your fear. And I'm getting something about my heart as soon as I know that Mladjan Dinkic is around, that he's negotiating, talking, right now I'm sure he's doing commissions, doing transge-fangs, and I'm not running away from every possible way to get accurate information when it comes to what the government is doing, or what the ministries are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9908	The word has the minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia Mrs. Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9909	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is an answer for MP Maraš: The Ministry of Justice is not in any part competent and has no jurisdiction over the Constitutional Court. I have asked the Department of Justice's professional service to inform the Constitutional Court that I have received a question about when it will be on the agenda of the assessment of the constitutionality of your initiative and I have also requested that you be informed directly in this letter. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9910	In the debate on amendments to Article 9 for discussion, MP Jovan Palalic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9911	The President-in-Office, distinguished Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I state the position of the DSS parliamentary group on the public prosecutor's case, I can only say that we expect this important strategic agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation, when it comes to a gas-naphtha agreement, to be realised as soon as possible, because it is in the best interest of the Serbian, Serbian, Serbian and Serbian state's citizens, and the overall strategic position of the state of Serbia, and the government of the Russian Federation, because the signature, which has been laid down, is certainly enough to guarantee the realisation of all the elements of the agreement. As for the very amendment that has been issued here and has prompted the debate of the People's MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, it is just pointing to the fact that there are differences in the understanding of this bill and in the ruling coalition itself. In addition to the amendments submitted to that part of the law relating to the network of basic courts, it is logical that the network is also being monitored by the public prosecutors. The amendments to this part of the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors and by representatives of the ruling coalition, and in this case it is a representative from G17 Plus, say how many citizens of municipalities in Serbia expect basic courts and public prosecutors to remain in their area. I've pointed out many times in my presentation, the whole concept is full of inconsistencies and absences of criteria. We have 34 basic courts, 45 criminal courts, 26 senior courts and 16 commercial courts. We have the absence of any explanation why certain municipalities have misdemeanor courts, and they don't have basic courts, why some have both basics and no more, and they don't have economics. This only indicates how this government hastily entered into such a fundamental and major reform. We have repeatedly pointed out that the declared principle followed by more than one government of the Republic of Serbia, meaning the previous one and the previous one, and also in the exposé of the Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's exposé is highlighted -- the fight against crime and corruption, is one of the priorities, though, true, it stands on a much lower scale of priorities than it should be. But if you in this network of public prosecutors are abolishing public prosecutors in 104 municipalities, then the issue of efficiency in the fight against crime and corruption is being raised. It would be very interesting to hear how an analysis of the consequences and effects of this concept of law was carried out when it comes to the effective fight against crime and corruption, in which the public prosecutor's office is one of the most important segments and pillars. So what we're pointing out here multiple times is that a very hasty step into this reform. Here, in this segment relating to the fight against crime and corruption, which is being discussed by all parliamentary groups when they discuss this set of laws, which they discussed at the last session when it came to the proposal for a law on the Agency, we are now facing the fact that 104 prosecutors will not be able to fight this important battle and the need for citizens to implement justice. That is why this number of amendments has been submitted by representatives of the ruling coalition. In addition to the amendments, the question is whether the applicants themselves will vote, and it would be a great shame not to vote, to return to their environments and then to tell the citizens that they have not done anything about it – we also have open threats from individual parliamentary groups that support the government from not voting for this law. So, with all the respect for the patience that the distinguished Minister Malovic has shown by listening to our discussions, I think that this tenacity and consistency that MPs and positions and oppositions have pointed out by criticising this law would be fully realised if this law were withdrawn from the assembly procedure. That's the best solution. Here, and an MP from the Duke Hungarian Union, our esteemed colleague, air-conditioned, that's the best way to do it. And here you have shown that this law cannot be supported in the National Assembly. It would be better to go back to work, to open up a new public debate and see what the effectiveness of what the MPs have said will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9912	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Sinisa Stamenkovic, if I am not mistaken, is from a group of pensioners. He submitted an amendment to Article 9 to add point 11 of Article 9 after point (10) of Article 9 to the main public prosecutor's office in Kladovo for the area of the basic court in Kladovo. However, this bill does not propose either the basic court or the general public prosecutor's office for the Kladovo municipality. As for the factors in which municipalities will be the primary court, we heard here from MPs, in some cases the geographical and climatic factors, in some cases the number of inhabitants or the dissension of the municipality, the travel network, were decided. I think most of the time he's decided a political factor. I remind the MPs that Kladov is a municipality in the Borski District and that it is a border municipality. She's bordering Romania. With Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's declaration of the government's concept of equal regional development in the exposé, this amendment should be adopted. Not only this one, but also the amendments to all the MPs who spoke of municipalities in the border belt, especially those bordering Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania. I support those amendments. Since it is about the border areas of the Republic of Serbia, the absence of institutions of the Republic of Serbia, in this case of basic courts and prosecutors, will produce migration and the eviction of citizens from these areas. We know that when citizens of the entire villages remain empty, houses closed, properties abandoned, there is no one, then the first neighbour has the right to break into Serbian Taraba. This should be considered when it comes to Serbia's border areas. We have not heard here from the government's representatives what the shortcomings are, at least not something that is significant, the existing networks of courts and prosecutors and why these institutions are not so effective. We heard from Minister Malovic that in essence there is a reorganisation of the existing judicial network, that essentially nothing will change and that citizens and judges will not be damaged, that it is practically not a reform, but a reorganisation. Then I wonder why this reorganisation in the first place if nothing's really going to change. Because if it's about reform, then we expect something better than the existing state. It's the essence of reform - to do something better. However, since it was said to be a reorganisation rather than a substantial reform, then I see no reason why such a network of courts and prosecutors is in place at all. Basically, the reform would be to activate objects from drawers and their processing and the full freedom of judges to work by law, without the influence of politics. It would be a fundamental reform, not to relocate the courts from the municipality to the municipality. I support all those MPs who have submitted amendments to the municipalities where municipal courts existed, located in the border areas of the Republic of Serbia, the courts remain or should be renamed if this law is adopted. However, if such a proposal is adopted, what will we get for the consequences? Just firing employees, not just in the judicial administration, as we heard, judges, prosecutors, especially those who are politically inappropriate. Since we have not heard the serious reasons why this is done, I propose that the amendment of my colleague Sinisha Stamenkovic be adopted or, as many MPs have said, that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9914	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9915	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, another in a series of amendments submitted to this law, I will remind you, there are 122 of them, who are calling on the legislator not to drastically reduce the number of prosecutors, basic and criminal courts, especially in border areas, in which there is a marked depopulation and reduced natural growth. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, which clearly shows that the ruling coalition, i.e. the government, is primarily concerned with exorcising what it is up to the end, which is to reduce the number of prosecutors and primary and criminal courts to thirty. Now there's a logical question -- what are the motives for such a thing? In the bill, it was stated in the explanation that the motives for the judiciary to be more effective, that the costs will be reduced and that it will avoid the possible link between court officials and people in the local environments, especially smaller ones. People's MPs from all MPs' groups for the past ten days, as long as the debate goes on, particularly on this law, have presented a series of reasons and arguments, arguments that these things that are mentioned in the reasoning of the Bill's proposal absolutely do not stand. Nor will the judiciary be more effective, and of course the prosecution, because by re-election of judges, the largest number of judges and prosecutors will be mostly from centres where courts and prosecutors are located, so because of the distance and underdeveloped travel networks, they will have to travel to places where they would process cases, which is directly contrary to what the bill says will be more effective. That way you can't be more efficient. Also, there will be no cuts in costs, as this will increase costs due to travel, logs and whatnot. Obviously, there is one motive here that can be seen, which of course is not written in the bill, which is primarily the political control of this important branch of government. It is much easier, of course, to control 30 courts and the president of courts, who will later be able to re-election judges to propose new ones, to choose, to replace. It is obvious that this adoption of this law will happen because I do not see a single reason why such a concept of a network of courts and prosecutors would continue to be pushed in spite of the many amendments, despite the strong arguments, the objections not only of the opposition MPs, but, above all, MPs of the ruling parties. I really cannot understand how the government and government representatives, who come back from these parties of the ruling coalition, are pushing one concept of the courts and prosecutors, their organisations, and the MPs from the ruling parties who are to vote for such a law are submitting amendments that are contrary to what is being proposed here. I counted carefully, 44 amendments were submitted by MPs from the ruling parties, out of 120. At the end of this debate, someone will be deceived, or the citizens will be deceived, only to see who they will be deceived from, whether they will be deceived by those 40 and several MPs of the ruling parties who have submitted these amendments. Of course, it would make sense that if their amendments didn't pass, they wouldn't even vote for the law. Either the law will eventually be withdrawn, or the minister will accept certain amendments, which is why these MPs will vote for this law, and then we and the citizens will be deceived because we have been here for ten days, and the minister has not accepted it on behalf of the Government and has rarely commented on all the arguments that we have made as reasons why such a law should not be adopted, or why certain amendments should not be accepted. Given that the law only takes effect in 2010, as one logical motive why it is persistently pushing now that it is on December 10th, when we have not even begun the debate on the budget, when we have yesterday's installation of Eulex in Kosovo and a series of other very important ones, at this point more important things for this country, which is why it insists on this law and it does not withdraw from the procedure, or at least does not interrupt the debate on this law in order for some of the more important things to be discussed in the Assembly, it remains a political motive, which is politics and political control of the judiciary. That is why we from the Democratic Party of Serbia will certainly not support this concept of the law, and we will support all amendments proposed by MPs and ruling and opposition parties, especially those that will balance the number of courts and prosecutors in those places that are small, poor and which will be the most affected in this way. If these MPs from the ruling parties who have proposed the amendments do so, there is no way to adopt such a concept, which will say that this story is completely unnecessary during these ten days. Finally, the vote will tell who is lying and cheating, whether the marketing move of these 40 and some amendments to the ruling coalition, including the chairman of the Legislative Committee and many known MPs from the ruling parties, whether they will plead for this law or not. This will not come out well, and apparently all MPs who have been discussing amendments these days have indicated, but citizens must know that this concept is primarily intended to take positions on time and that future elections by judges and prosecutors are executed in a controlled manner by the ruling coalition, i.e. the authorities. There will be no independent judiciary, there will be no improvement for this country, in terms of reducing corruption and crime and better positions on the investment-friendly countries, for new investments, and the country will get a better assessment, above all, from the European Union authorities that it can be assessed as a stable country that has an independent judiciary and bodies in which one who wants to invest in this country can trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9916	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by the President of Parliament. Several times over the past week, we insisted that RIK make a decision, i.e. a report on the election of the boards to fill the seats in the municipality of Leposavic. There is a judicial verdict by the District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, the commission was scheduled for 4 December 2008, held that day, but this was not on the agenda because some smart-ass, student Oliver Antic, thought to convince some members of the commission, including Mrs Malovic and Mr Odalovic, that there is no letter accompanying. It is true that there are no stamps, but it is also true that this is not an act to be decided on, nor is this an act that is an integral part of this document that is accompanied by the verdict, where the end of the mandate of 29 October 2008 was established for the Co-ions of SO Leposavic of the SRS electoral list, and that: Dragosa Miletic, Biljana Blažević, Ivana Kovacevic, Ljubisa Minić, Rada Ratkovic, Draga Vukicovic, Miloko Petrovic, Zoran Kovacevic and Goran Lesovic. Starting with the established facts, Sonja Brkic, as she thought with her own head, until this Antic student ordered her to wait for him for 20 minutes, as you know, Mrs. Minister, you were with him in the meantime, waiting for the session to begin... The RIK, based on Article 48, is based on the established facts of the RIK. The Law on Local Elections and Finality of the Government, assigned mandates to committees Jovan Miladanovic, Slavisa Milentijevic, Snezani Milivojevic, Srboljub Radovanovic, Dragan Miljojković, Jelena Obradovic, Dragisa Komatovic, Mikica Ilic and Radovan Jankovic. The elected committees were given assurances about the selection of the committees in SO Leposavic. This was a report prepared for Mrs Sonja Brkic to sign after the RIK found it. Given that this has not been done, obviously malicious and breaking the law, and we have information that the RIK is scheduled for tomorrow, I ask the House Speaker to order this to be put on the agenda, to make assurances in accordance with the ruling of the District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, which has become legal. I don't know what the interest of Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic is to block RIK's work, because, as you know, the members of the RIK representing the SRS can do so and if they have to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9918	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for your request, the President of the National Assembly has no jurisdiction over the work of the Republic Election Commission, especially in the proposals for the agenda, but members of the RIK of course, yes. It is good that you gave the information, only that the Republic Election Commission, regardless of what the Assembly chooses, is independent and independent of the proposal of the President or President of the National Assembly; it or he does not have jurisdiction over it. Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, please. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9919	I'm speaking under Article 101, risking that you would now turn off my microphone, because what you just said wasn't a literal response to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that I advertised. Anyway, I'd like you to take this as a replica of your answer or that I'm not happy with the answer, so I'm explaining why I'm not. There is no reason for you MPs to warn about the powers of Parliament, Parliament Speaker, RIK etc. We know that well, and I'm sure you're convinced that I know both the Rules of Procedure and the laws and I don't say anything by heart. When we presented this problem last week, several times, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic said she would personally take an interest in it and make sure that this was found at the session of the Republic Election Commission, which I was talking about, and it was indeed held at the RIK session. But if I didn't go back to the whole story now, it might not be bad to remind that Minister Malovic and Veljko Odalovic did not vote to vote on this proposal, because, as top lawyers, they believed that Djurdjevic, a student of Oliver Antic, who convinced them that a letter from a municipality president was without the signature of an administrative act. No, all the lawyers in this room and outside of this room know that it isn't and they know that it was obviously an abuse then, a deliberate delay to get into the three-month period, so that a forced administration can be introduced into Leposavic. There is no condition for this, here is a judicial verdict, in the name of the people, of the District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, RIK only needs, what I read earlier, to confirm. I only warned that the injured member of 104 was my dignity as a MP, because no one responded to what I said several times. I have also turned my attention to you, above all, to the President of Parliament, that it seems to me that someone obviously cares about blocking the work of the Republic Election Commission so as not to appoint a new MP in the Democratic Party in this group of ZES, because someone else needs to come instead of a colleague who went to the director of the Railways. This will not happen if this is not put on the agenda, because you will have a several-hour debate by members of the Republic Election Commission from the SRS on this topic. This means that you want to block the work of the Republic Election Commission and that for some reason, you care that this new colleague does not join the Democratic Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9920	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group for discussion in particular is another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9921	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Madam Chairman, the amendment submitted by Mr. Sinisa Stamenkovic is a quite logical amendment, which prevents the creation of huge problems for the citizens of this area, especially when it comes to the territory of Kladov and other municipalities, where the headquarters of the basic public prosecutor's office in Kladovo is foreseen. The promoter proposes that basic prosecution be formed in Kladovo, as it would make it easier for citizens and those who exercise certain rights, as well as for prosecutors and the institution themselves to carry out their tasks in the territory and in the municipalities and in the area. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Comic, in accordance with the article. In 225 and 226 I would like to request an explanation and a notice, and I would also like to ask if it is possible for the decision of the Trade Court in Belgrade, No. 802/97 of 5. 2. In 2008, a fixed fee for a bankruptcy manager of 460,402,571 dinar? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just asking if this is true. Am I wrong? And, if I am mistaken, I would ask even respected lawyers in this assembly and Madam Chairman to interpret whether it is possible for this amount to be set aside from bankruptcy and bankruptcy mobsters, and thus to suffer the damage of workers, and to the workers of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade". According to this solution, indicated by the Higher Trade Court, these costs of the bankruptcy administrator were determined. I ask the question and ask the answer – and I believe you will agree, Madam Chairman, that this should be clarified – is this true or not? Please forward this question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia's competent ministry and ask for an answer to what exactly the amount received by the bankruptcy manager in the bankruptcy process over "The Slave Houses of Belgrade". If this is true, then there's no more justice. There's no rule of law. Thousands and thousands of workers of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" have lost their jobs, thousands and thousands of workers not only of the Slave Houses, but also of their suppliers and producers, who also remained deprived and suffered damage. Thousands of workers in the slave houses of Belgrade and members of their families were left without bread, found themselves on the street. Who's in possession of the Belgrade Slave House today? At what cost did the current dignitaries pay the slave houses and the state, businesses and what is the damage? Who will guarantee the future in this country to foreign investors, foreign investors, small and medium-sized businesses, who will guarantee their rights guaranteed by the constitution and certain laws? That's why, ladies and gentlemen, this is a scandal, if that's true. So I ask the answer, and that's why I asked this question. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the bankruptcy mafia, please, Madam Chairman, if you'll allow me, I'd like to ask you a question and ask for a few notices. First, how many bankruptcy proceedings did Stevan Moldovan take part in and what trade courts in Serbia? The issue should be answered by the government and the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Justice, all trade courts in Serbia and the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers. Secondly, who signed the decision to set up Stevan Moldovan as a bankruptcy manager in all proceedings? I ask all these institutions to answer that question. What are the companies and where are they from, which Stevan Moldovan hired as evaluators to carry out an estimate of the capital of the bankruptcy debtors? How many bankruptcy debtors have been reorganized? How many bankruptcy debtors have gone bankrupt and the sale of assets? Fifth, names and names of natural and legal persons who appear as bankruptcy creditors in cases where Moldovan Stevan acted as a bankruptcy manager and how well was the property recognised? How many claims were paid off by creditors? The sixth, how much for each legal person, the debtor, is the prize and fee of the bankruptcy manager, Moldovan Stevan? Seven, what is the amount of income tax charged by the state and paid for by Stevan Moldovan? How many in Serbia in the areas of trade courts where bankruptcy director Stevan Moldovan acted were licensed bankruptcy managers? How can he only have the exclusive right to be a bankruptcy manager in most cases, and thousands and hundreds of them are in Serbia? In how many cases of bankruptcy are Moldovan Stevan taking action today and in what courts? I'm looking for this data for the period from 2001 to today. Ladies and gentlemen, I particularly ask the Government to ask for the information and solution and decision of the Trade Court in Panchev how much is the sum and amount set for Moldovan Stevan, the bankruptcy manager in the case of Agroziv in Panchev? According to me, about 650,000 euros should be charged by Mr. Moldovan Stevan. If this is true, it's a disaster. This country must fail. That's why I'm asking a question and I'm looking for an answer. Please forward the question and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9922	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9923	I am reporting to support the amendment of Sinisha Stamenkovic to Article 9th position 1 in which a new point 11 is added behind the existing point 10) which reads: "The main public prosecutor's office in Kladovo, for the area of the basic court in Kladovo. "And, of course, according to the proposed amendment, there is a renumberation of points in Article 9(1). It's a bill of law. Of course we supported the pensioner's amendment, because New Serbia will always support all needs of pensioners in Serbia, in line with the democratic principles we advocate, as we advocate even regional development. Many principles of developed democracy are actually a derivative of basic Christian values, so Christian love is translated into democratic tolerance, hope in vision and development programme, faith in trust in the institutions of the system, and truth, one and forever, in gathering relevant data and evidence of an event. In this respect, this whole set of judicial laws aims to achieve justice, to establish truth and to take personal responsibility for the works done. Quite good and completely Christian, with the difference that laws are provided for this earthly justice and Christian justice for life in eternity. From whatever point of view you come forward, especially today on International Human Rights Day, we cannot ignore the basic human right – the right to life, but also the right of those who are deceased, especially when it comes to innocent victims. Human rights are also the rights of the living, but also the rights of the dead, and until the dead are calm there can be no peace for us alive either. At the invitation of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed in Kosovo and Metohija, the family of victims gathered around this association, a delegation of the New Serbia Parliament Club, headed by New Serbia President and head of the NS Parliament Club in this assembly, visited today this association in their humble rooms, which also includes the earthquake "wall of wages". It is about photos of over 2,500 kidnapped and killed in Kosovo and Metohija. When you enter the Houses of the Association of Families kidnapped and murdered and stand in front of the faces of these innocent victims who were united at least in death, because there are also civilians and young men who were on regular service in 1998 and 1999, women and members of the police, you feel such an emotional earthquake that you can hardly say a word. Each of these photographs belongs to a person who had plans, visions, dignity and human rights, but also the right to a dignified death. If they were killed, kidnapped, ripped out their organs and blasphemed by the Ship's criminals, then the non-interest and neglect of each and every one of them, as well as the devastating facts of genocide against Serbs, could be considered complicity in their murder and further psychological and spiritual killing of their relatives. What kind of state and government ignores the need to know the truth about crimes against Serbs? If the bearers of that authority are not ashamed to reconcile and negotiate with the murderers of these people because, my God, they are Democrats and Europeans, how can they not be ashamed of these innocent victims of their own people? Thaci, Haradinaj, Cheku, they're all walking and, they say, democratisation so-called. an independent state of Kosovo. For interesting reasons, they were forgiven by the same foreign powers who threw cluster bombs at cities, tested for how poor uranium was good and healthy for Serbs, which is why we have an increase in cancerous diseases, especially in children, played "merciful angel", but hell, in the heart of Europe. We don't need to talk about them. About us and ours, we have both human rights and the obligation to say a lot. A person in the role of Serbian President went to Srebrenica, but Bratunac and Kravica were far away. He is now far away from Kosovo and Metohija where Eulex is properly deployed, which is as humanitarian and neutral as the "angel" of the bombing was merciful. His victims' faces are far away, but also their families' faces, because he can't kick a winning three with them, play a water polo game or a promotional tennis match. Their faces are harassing him, as if the accident were infectious, so run as far away as possible, trying to deny events by denying both witnesses and victims. The same goes for other people in a position of power. Why are they acting like they're ashamed of Serbian victims? Why won't they let the truth be told about the loss of the Serb people? Is it possible that courting the powers of the world order implies giving up their victims and their people who thus become a double sacrifice, and enemies and so on. A friend? Did the minister of the military, for example, know all those young men who regularly went into the army because they respected their country and considered it their human obligation to fight for it? I can't find the picture right now, but I'll find it. Vladimir, a 21-year-old young man, told his mother – I'm going to the army because I'm not a coward and I don't want to run, just as my ancestors never ran away from their country's defenses. He went into the army, told his mother he was on a hill next to Nis, and three days later he died at the Yugoslav-Albanian border, a koshara caraule. Also, his peer, Elijah, did not want to tell his parents that he was going to Kosovo so as not to upset them. He only asked them to hear "One more day of life" one more time. So is Miladin, Milos and Miroslav. All five of them went to defend their country and all five of them were killed in Kosharam. They gave Serbia the most valuable they had. Can Serbia really give them one day a year when we'll talk about them? Not so much. To make things worse, the state not only shuts up, as if it's ashamed of them and 3,000 others killed in Kosovo and Metohija, but simply forces the silence of their relatives and friends. Vladimir's mother said what should be the question of all of us, regardless of which political party we belonged to, because first of all, we are members of a human party that is unique and equal only before death: "Do I have to be ashamed of letting my son join the army and fulfill my patriotic obligation? Is it my fault I didn't make him go somewhere and run away, and is that why I should be ashamed? "If, however, at least temporarily and occasionally, we remember that we are humans, and that we are mortal, and that there is no greater pain than the divorces we love, we should not remain uninterested in the problems of the families of the kidnapped and killed in Kosovo and Metohija. Is there a terrible pain and loss to be added to their problems because of the unresolved so-called. administrative status? In order to achieve the material rights of their missing, for ten years families must prove that their members are not among the living. What is the pain of a mother who has to declare her child dead because she has no right to tell the truth about her child being murdered? We cannot make up for their loss in experiencing this terrible pain, may the Lord God himself help them. What we can do is deal with the truth about Serbian victims, the status of victims and the status of their families. The Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed must get the status of association of special national importance, if we're really working on being a serious state. This association must also receive financial assistance from the current government, because no matter how restrictive and adapted the conditions of the global economic crisis, these people, who have proved their loyalty to the state at the cost of life, belong to every kind of support and assistance. Financial is necessary, but not enough. The Association says, "It's a sin to keep quiet." That's right. Christianly speaking, sin is not only a sin to do evil, but to stay away from doing any good. We're not rich enough, but humanity is free, and honesty and truth are invaluable. It is so understandable that the families of the kidnapped and killed are bitter because no resolution on Kosovo and Metohija was reached in this assembly. Instead, Eulex entered a large door into our southern province, and Marty Ahtisaari, his idea maker, entered a large door in history - as the winner of the Nobel Prize. In that name, here's a telegram I just received from Mladenec: "Dearly, I congratulate you on the Nobel Peace Prize Marty Ahtisaari. This card applies to all Members of Parliament. If you have the courage, read this telegram out loud today at the pay phone. Respectfully, Dusko Petrovic. "Here, I give you my congratulations, especially this side. So we haven't given peace to the retired, harassed, killed in Kosovo and Metohija yet, and we're already preparing to ignore those who are bleeding now, being abused in our southern province. How much do you really think these associations need to be to remember how much we, first of all, have sinned about ourselves and ourselves? And finally, only part of the song by Djoka Stojcic, written after the shooting in Kragujevac, in which a Serbian mother speaks to her German mother, Zhivana tells Helga – should all mothers lose their son, so that only in pain do we understand each other?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9924	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Proposer, please, Mr. Milentievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9925	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, in front of the DSS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9, but the Government has accepted the amendment to Article 3, with a correction, so I am withdrawing this amendment because it does not comply with the accepted amendment, with the correction, to Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9926	Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Hajdarevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9927	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP advocates root and fundamental changes in Serbia's judiciary. We think it is one of the most important European jobs that can significantly change the quality of life for both citizens and businesses themselves. However, the reform we need must mean the essence, and it is not in this proposed law. We cannot forcely create a new and reduce the existing network of courts and prosecutors without making a new network and rationalising the network of some other state authorities. In front of the LDP parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 which provides for the primary public prosecutor's office to remain in the municipality of Priboj. This is the logical continuation of my amendment to Article 3, which is to remain a primary, or municipal court on the territory of the Municipality of Prboj. The abolition, i.e. the rationalisation of courts and prosecutors, sends a message to citizens of small communities, poor environments, such as the Priboj municipality, that there is no future in these environments. Therefore, it should not surprise the citizens of these environments to this bill. The vast majority of these citizens, over 90%, will have nothing to do with the judiciary or the prosecution. These citizens of these small communities, such as the Priboj municipality, are asking the government of Serbia and the competent ministries to solve some of their problems, not to think of their municipalities only when something needs to be abolished or changed. Also, citizens of border areas, or municipalities located on the border with other countries, fear that this reform of the judiciary does not go to them at the expense of them, as has been the reform of some other state bodies. I will mention one example, and this is an example related to a reform implemented by the Ministry of Defence when it rationalised a network of military departments. Today, we are witnessing that the Ministry has sent a memo that those students studying abroad must submit confirmation that they are regular students, so that they can postpone the military deadline, at the competent embassy, or the consulate in the country where they study and pay 50, 60 or more euros. What does this mean specifically for the citizens of Priboj and other border posts at the border, for example, with Bosnia and Montenegro? This means that those students studying in Sarajevo, Palace, Foca and Podgorica must pay 50-60 euros more, although they could have previously and if they can continue to carry that certificate to the military department in Priboj, Prepolje or another municipality. Also, there is an initiative of over 4,000 citizens of the Municipality of Priboj and the OS "Branko Radcevic" in Priboj to finally solve the problem of heating in the OS "Branko Radcevic", in which more than 700 students go, and the "Neven" Children's kindergarten. The boiler room that's supposed to heat up that school, and that kindergarten doesn't work, or it can't work, because the M.O.P. inspection banned the operation of that boiler room because there's a danger of explosions. The government of Serbia, or certain ministries, has done nothing on the occasion, neither the Ministry of Energy nor the Ministry of Education, nor the Ministry of Mining, nor the Ministry of the NIP. Imagine those citizens who have to send their children to freeze, those citizens whose incomes are about 15,000 dinars; imagine those citizens of the Priboj municipality and other small municipalities who hear of their municipality from the Serbian government only when something needs to be abolished. By moving from the territory of a small local self-government and financial police, and the MUP, and the judiciary, and the prosecution, by moving the military section, perhaps in the future and the hospital, some school, we are only making this local self-government a party organisation, where the parties will try to employ their officials, or their members after each local election. We must fight against this, and therefore I propose that this law be withdrawn or that almost all MPs be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9928	The word is Mr. Martinovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9929	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a question for Mrs. Malovic. She may not be the most invited to answer that question, but it makes sense to me. Mrs Malovic, how many democratic parties exist in the Republic of Serbia? Because as a new set from the Democratic Party comes to power, it says reforms in Serbia begin, and all that has been done before as if it had never happened. Mrs. Malovic, in the fall of 2001, when another set from your party was in power in the Republic of Serbia, right here in the National Assembly was brought a set, allegedly, of reform and pro-European judicial laws. These laws have been announced as a miracle unseen, as a map for Europe; it is said that we will catch up with these European and Euro-Atlantic integrations, that we will undo everything that was negative in the dark 1990s, etc. Here, seven years later, you from the Democratic Party, some new people, you give it all up. All that was written in those 2001 reform, democratic, European laws is not good, it should be re-launched to create a justice system in the Republic of Serbia. I ask not only you, Mrs Malovic, but also your party colleagues and those who have preceded you as Minister of the Democratic Party, who will be responsible for everything that has been done badly since 2001, and at the time when it was done, it was presented to us as something that is best, most beautiful, most attractive, najtomocratic, etc.? Who now guarantees us that what you propose to us in a few years will not again be declared bad, non-democratic, that this will slow us down in the process of approaching the EU, etc.? It's simple, who can trust you anymore? As she comes in from the Democratic Party, she cancels and does everything the opposite of what her predecessors did. As far as Mr. Hajdarevic's amendment is concerned, I think he's fully established, it makes absolutely sense. Therefore, it is really logical that there is a basic public prosecutor's office in Priboj and that the area of the primary public prosecutor's office corresponds to the area of the primary court in Priboj. I fully support the argument given by my esteemed colleague, I think that it is absolutely established and that this amendment should be accepted. Mrs. Malovic, I wanted to draw your attention to something else that is also important, especially for those of you who flock into this very Western world. For years, it has been presented to us that unconditional co-operation with The Hague tribunal is something without which Serbia's EU accession cannot be imagined, that co-operation with The Hague tribunal depends on the fate of the entire nation and that we now cannot ask the question whether the UN tribunal is legal, whether it respects the rights of the indictees, what is the national structure of the people indicted before The Hague tribunal. Of course, all these facts have been defeated by The Hague tribunal. He's illegally formed. The rules the UN tribunal implements are pure inquisitor rules, because it is an institution that brings together two procedural functions in its hands, both prosecutorial and judicial, which is absolutely incompatible in any democratic judiciary today in the world. The national structure of the indictees, or convicted before The Hague tribunal, also contributes to the fact that The Hague tribunal is, in fact, an institution that should impose on the Serb people and Serbia a complex of historical guilt over the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and all those crimes that took place in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. As for respecting the rights of the UN tribunal indictees, SRS President Vojislav Seselj is the best proof that the UN tribunal respects the rights of the indictees, even those who volunteered to the UN tribunal, which you did not have to arrest, to kidnap, to lead to fraud into this shameful institution. Why am I telling you all this? The Hague tribunal as one renowned institution that respects world trends, of course, has its own internet presentation at that internet presentation, Mrs Malovic, and you have an interactive map of the Republic of Serbia. This is a clip from that interactive map. Now pay attention to how The Hague tribunal – in which you swear and believe it is an institution that must not be asked any question of its legality and legitimacy – is experiencing Serbia and how much, in fact, it respects you who advocate co-operation with that institution. As you can see, the Republic of Serbia on the map of the Hague tribunal is divided into three parts: Vojvodina, this narrow Serbia (again we have that "terrible" again, and this is the keybinding of "saint Serbia" and Kosovo. Novi Sad is marked with a round black spot; Belgrade is marked by a square, which means it is the capital, and Pristina, Mrs. Malovic, is also marked by a square. So, for The Hague tribunal of Kosovo... As you can see, Kosovo writes, does not write Kosovo and Metohija, does not write AP Kosovo and Metohija, such as constitutional terminology, writes only - Kosovo. The borders of the so-called so-called border have been marked. the Republic of Kosovo. You have a dark square marking Pristina as the capital of the so-called city. the countries of Kosovo. This is a map that allegedly depicts the crimes of Serbs against Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, and you have here a legend, so that I don't turn out to be telling the truth. This is an increased map of that so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. Again, Pristina is marked with a dark square. With the name of each municipality, or city on Kosovo and Metohija territory, parallel Serbian and Albanian toponyms were given. There's a legend here, so there's no confusion. Only Kosovo is mentioned, there is no Serbia, AP Kosovo and Metohija, it's nothing, it's just -- Kosovo. The dark square marks Pristina. Look, Mrs. Malovic, what the capital says, and below, black spots marking the places where Serbs allegedly committed crimes against poor and threatened Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija during 1998 and 1999. And again, something that is a little humiliating for you who advocate co-operation with The Hague tribunal is used by Croatian terminology, according to the crime scene. If you want to see exactly what this is about, go to The Hague tribunal's site, you can download this map, a whole series of other interactive maps, and make sure that the Hague tribunal and those behind The Hague tribunal experience you who, day after day, are without doubt repeating that these are our friends, how well they want to help us, to bring us into this European Union, and how some evil radicals, uneducated, primitive, who would like to fight, do not understand and speak against the EU and against The Hague tribunal. The most tragic fact of all, Mrs Malovic, is that the enemies of the Serbian people do not hide at all that they are enemies. They even praise it, publicly publishing maps on which the province of Kosovo and Metohija is separated from Serbia. Unfortunately, in these maps, Vojvodina is also separated from Serbia. As you can see, if you don't believe me, this is a legend that says "border," so these dots mark the boundaries, not internal, administrative boundaries, the state limits are marked by dots. The border between Vojvodina and southern Serbia has the same rank as the border between Serbia and Bulgaria, Serbia and Romania, Serbia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. You, Mrs Malovic, I don't mean personally, I appreciate you and respect you, the coalition that you belong to me looks like people who were here in Serbia in World War II – while the Germans shot Serbs in Kragujevac, Kraljen, while helping Usta Pavelic to kill as many Serbs as possible, while supporting the concept of great Albania in Kosovo and Metohija, etc., unfortunately, there were some Serbs who would not understand and accept the fact there. It seems to me, Mrs. Malovic, that you and the government where you sit and the parties who support that government in the position of those World War II unfortunates who didn't want to see what the truth really was, who didn't want to admit it and who the Serbian people convinced that their friends were those who are their enemies and who are working against their elemental interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9930	The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9931	President-in-Office, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after this conducting orchestra, I note that I have reported on the amendment of my colleague, Kenan Hajdarevic, regarding last week's exhibition for municipalities from Zlatiborski, i.e. Mileshev district and all arguments related to municipal, i.e. Now the basic courts, the prosecution departments and the law enforcement authorities. All the arguments put forward by the MPs, starting with Mr Hajdarevic, Nikolic, Mr Peric, Mr Arsen Djuric, me, are in favour. This previous exhibition on the territory of the Municipality of Priboj as a border environment and all municipalities in the area suggests that probably some developmental and decentralisation in the region will never happen, and related to all sets of laws in the judicial portfolio and all other areas concerned by this government. Please, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, Madam Minister, what will happen, say, in Priboj – I will give you the document I received today and I will read it – when the public prosecutor's office in Priboj is abolished? These days, he is from an address in Belgrade named Mr Tomislav Penezic, with an apartment on Vuk Karadzic Street. 2 in Priboj, otherwise former chairman of the SRS County District Committee, and now a member of the Serbian Progressive Party, the following content has arrived. My fellow Members, Minister, may I have your attention so that you may hear the contents of this letter? I hope, however, no matter the pace of your hitting, that the citizens next to the small screen will hear and be horrified by the contents of this letter. It is addressed to the said gentleman and reads as follows: "Dear and unrespectable Mr Tomislav, we in the Serbian Radical Party have always known what kind of hero and man you are, but in view of your profession and for years we never told you that. The time has come for you to show who you are and what you stand for. On the wings and on the merits of Dr. Vojislav Seselj, you've had a good life, otherwise, you've never had one before. You'll end up like your dad. "I note that the late father of Mr Tomislav Penezic died in 1943 in the defense of his country. "With you will be wiped out by a sidewalk, either in Priboj or in Belgrade. If you don't repent and apologize for everything you've done lately against the SRS, we can't forgive you, and God won't, and he can't. Get ready to at least be ashamed before we get there. "Probably after this, you'll see, Madam Minister, a few points. I only appeal to citizens who, and this little vote in the previous re-elections in the region, gave Serbian Radical Party to think, after such frantic writing and everything else, whether it is good to do it any further. The political time is coming for us Serbian advances.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9932	The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9933	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the DSS wants to support the amendment submitted to Article 9 by MP Kenan Hajdarevic, for several reasons. First of all, Mr. Hajdarevic stated in his amendment that he actually respects all the criteria that a serious government and a serious ministry of justice would respect, which is that Pryboj is a town on the border, that it is a multinational environment and that it is sufficient, and that is also quite natural that the area of the prosecution follows the area of courts, so I think that this amendment meets all those criteria that are necessary to be recognised. However, the Serbian government obviously did not want to respect such arguments, which is quite in line with how the ministry and government behave over the past few weeks as long as the debate on these amendments and these laws is taking place. In fact, all those arguments that government and opposition MPs write, mostly making sure that they respect some of the conditions that are important to the environment from which they come, the government rejects not even considering it necessary to say something more seriously at this point when it is discussed. Why is it important to talk about this today? Because the government has decided to abolish 104 courts, to lift a lot of prosecutors, because it has decided to put 300 to 400 judges out of work, to put the entire judiciary in a position to travel from today to tomorrow. That's why we need to talk about it in public. On the other hand, the government says it is entering the concept of these changes because it wants to save, because it considers it very important to work effectively and to work in a much smaller number of courts and sues because it is less expensive and less costing citizens of Serbia. I think there were a lot of arguments that it was actually a more expensive variant for both the state and the citizens of Serbia, and I don't think we should talk about it any further. That's why it's very important for me to say why the government suddenly wants to save so much. It is perfectly natural for us MPs to follow a little more what is written in the media, because as MPs, there is no other way we can inform ourselves of the budget, which is otherwise late in the month and a half, but by following what is being published in the media. What we see is a very complicated budget filling and we immediately come to the topic of what this group of people representing themselves as the ruling coalition have promised their voters, which is that they will bring fresh capital to the country and that everything from the great investments that have come here will flourish in the country. Obviously, investment and capital have nothing to do with it. That it's obvious that the more obvious he can't be talking and the story is that these days he's making sure that the vehicle registration fee is increased three times. Imagine, the profits won't rise, but that's why registration fees will be raised three times. How will this affect the standard of citizens who, in their situation in extreme poverty, need to fill the government's budget, which apparently needs to travel terribly? Because when we add how much he will travel, let's say, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Krkobic, it costs the citizens of Serbia five million. So we touched on the issue of heavy budget filling and immediately came to the issue of the government's promise to the citizens in pre-election activities. It is obvious that of one of the first and most important promises, which is the EU candidate status, there is nothing and there is nothing for long. It is obvious that nowhere else, even those advocates that it will be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, no later than a few months, as Mr Djelic here cried out - let's go in... So, the story of a white Schengen visa is a story for some distant future time. Also, for a long time to come it's a story of 200,000 new jobs, because obviously there's nothing out of it. These days, just in November of the month, 6,000 workers were fired and 7,000 more are on collective vacations which are actually a preparatory phase for firing. I hope you know the decisions on extending the collective contract you signed with the trade unions that you will project 15% of the average personal income for a warm meal and 70% of the average personal income for a regress and that these strikes today in front of the government of dissatisfied workers you promised them all, along the way you signed it, are actually a reminder, a very important and great reminder, to the government to take care of and not play with those who really can barely keep their families' naked lives. On the other hand, what about you promising to preserve Kosovo and Metohija's territory within Serbia? Work was suspended yesterday because opposition MPs refused to accept calmly and silently that Eulex was entering Kosovo and Metohija on that day. As I can see, it's mostly what the media are reporting as if Eulex's entry was with complete silence and silence. You know, there's a lot of stories and songs in Serbia that say that out of that total silence and silence, the most terrible thing in people is born. It's that situation where a fracture happens in humans. Speaking of promises, I must mention this latest promise, which the president of Serbia, who likes to be prime minister in his spare time, made at the session of his main committee. It is interesting that at that session the guest was the one who presents himself as an extra-party figure, and otherwise the prime minister is in shadow, Mr Cvetkovic. What are the latest promises Mr. Tadic made to the citizens? So, following a public opinion survey on what are the greatest fears of citizens in these times, with the infallible instinct of his advisers, Mr Tadic said that actually fear of losing a job is the first fear that occurs in people, even before the fear of death. In situations like this, in which Serbia is located, I can realistically imagine the situation, especially in view of that tortured man who died in Loznica working black for 1,000 dinars a day. It is a terrible picture of Serbia in which it is most important to keep the job, even if it is not paid on it, even if it was received with a terrible reduction. So the famous promise was that ministers would be evaluated and that their work would be assessed every three months, or quarterly. That would be nice and nice if the president of Serbia really had jurisdiction over it. But he knows he doesn't have jurisdiction over it, and yet he does. It's a very interesting motive for what he's doing it for. For a long time, he has presented himself to Serbian citizens as a tough guy who holds things in his hands, who will take care of every citizen individually and protect his naked life, because, in fact, the prime minister and his ministers tell us that we will not be hungry, naked and barefoot. So that's that step between those promises that we're going to live worldly and European, until we're not gonna be naked and barefoot, all together in four months. Serbia's president actually wants to tell us that he decides on everything, even what is not his jurisdiction and only thanks to his goodness and far-sightedness, Serbian citizens will be spared from losing their jobs. That, of course, is not in line with what's going on. I don't know what's going to happen to these workers who have already lost their jobs, but let's believe that he's going to bring them back by force to those jobs. We are now coming up with a story on what are the criteria to be monitored and on which ministers will be evaluated and evaluated and lost their jobs. So, according to the president's cabinet, because he has declared this, these are: the court of the public, the court of profession, professionals in the business and the fulfillment of the promises, therefore, as far as the minister has fulfilled the pre-election promises. If we judge by this first criterion, the court of the public, the president may freely disband the government, as in polls over 60% of people say the government is not leading us in the right direction. So, the court of the public is very clear at this point – gentlemen, return your jobs and do something else that you can do better. The Court of Justice, not to tell you what the media economists are telling you and how they say how much the IMF is putting us into a situation that is currently very current in America, not to tell you how much inflation you have, what is the possibility that the basis on which you have founded a budget of 3.5% of the gross social product will really be fulfilled. Neither much economic and economical stronger countries will have growth, but will stagnate in these years, only this unfortunate Serbia, which is weak, stolen by the end, will grow. So that first assumption of the budget is completely wrong. The second assumption is that inflation will be maintained to 8%, it's also completely wrong, because every time the dinar falls by 10% inflation increases by 3.5 or 4%, so the whole story of it, on the basis of which you're making the budget, is completely wrong. When those premises fall, we enter a vicious cycle of inflation. The first vice president, the one with the golden voice, tells you about it, because he comes from the option that was extremely successful, inflation was then the biggest. He knows very well how it was done at the time, and he tells us that he will save us from it. So, we've entered a vicious circle, there's no investment, there's no capital, inflation is growing, you're spending budget reserves, you're putting us in a position to really watch what happens to Serbia from today to tomorrow. As far as I'm concerned, following what you're saying in the campaigns, what followed, and what was logical, you made promises that couldn't be fulfilled. Not to mention how insecure you are, so you lost 90,000,000 just to customs when you decided to unilaterally apply the SAA. It's an entirely irresponsible decision, which is why someone in the future is going to suffer a lot of consequences, but right now only citizens are going to suffer. So, in the 1990s, we had sanctions on the outside, from the international community. At this moment, we have sanctions within, from our own government, which, with the foreign exchange "or entry into the EU or the death of Serbia", as Europe says "you will not be a member of it", decided that Serbia is not there. So, I respect President Tadic's decision, the criteria are public, I have completely shown you that criteria show that you should step down. I think that's real. I think you should take the first step right now, withdraw all these laws or accept the amendments the opposition is offering. She's offering them precisely because she thinks something with them might be able to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9934	The word is Mr. Petar Jojic. There are five minutes left for the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by Mr. Priboj, which refers to the basic court in Priboj, and also to the basic prosecutor's office in Priboj, should, in any case, be supported. For what reason? The prize is a city that had a large industrial production, a vehicle factory. You know the conditions she was in and the conditions she's in today. The area is a border area, dissociated, away from Prepolje, and also from Užica, where the seat of the senior prosecutor's office and senior court is foreseen. Ladies and gentlemen, this looks like a grouping and building higher capacity in the judiciary, just like Broz made big businesses and large capacities, so he concentrated the village workers on asphalt, into cities. What fate was experienced by those workers who worked and lived in large systems, i.e. Big cities? As a result, citizens of the Republic of Serbia are suffering today. Ladies and gentlemen, in line with the work of the judiciary in the case of Agrosiv, which I mentioned earlier, I would like to point out that Agrosiv is a victim, apparently, of an import lobby. A large number of workers are left out of work after bankruptcy. Agroliv is exposed to a public media link. Only the municipality of Žitište has 60% of the employees of Agroziv company. After the imposition of the bankruptcy, production was reduced by half of the production capacity. Ratar production also for 50%. A large number of workers in the area live from Agrosiv. The banks that were lenders withdrew, according to my knowledge, I'm going to check that one more time, my decisions to block the account for the financing of Agroziv and the service by Agroziv to banks. The only thing that remains, in my opinion, is to make it possible for Agro-Hungarian workers to work under better conditions, to have where to work, to have solid salaries, to continue war production, to continue production in our country, not to protect the import lobby. In my opinion, the import lobby is on the move right now, and it's leading to the bankruptcy of Agroziv in Panchev. The Agroziv in Panchev last year had 15,000 hectares sown for wartime production, and this year 1,300 hectares. For what? If the directors are responsible, let them respond, and should respond if they are found to have committed a crime, but to introduce bankruptcy and lead to this situation the wartime production and production of livestock by the largest producer in Serbia, it is not good. It's not good for the state or for the workers, because it's better to encourage domestic production than to allow an import lobby to destroy our production. Our employees who work in these and similar companies better work... (President: Time, Mr. Jojic. )......................................................................................................... They will benefit their family, and they will benefit the state. In this way, they will better protect domestic production than speculators, frauds, fakes and others who destroy this country from abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9936	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kragovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. In 225 and 226, I request an explanation from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which gave the RIK the mandate to perform actions for the needs of local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, why not hold a session of the RIK and why they do not consider the material supplied to the RIK if it is complete and contains all the necessary documents so that the Republic Election Commission can work. I filed a request on November 4th, and I reached a verdict by the Kosovo Mitrovica District Court, and on November 11th, I renewed that request; then you asked local self-government to do the same, and then there was a confusion as to why the accompanying act was not stamped. Now again, a bonus is required to avoid putting that point on the agenda, to get rid of it, and to issue confidence for new vacancy. I do not understand this will of the RIK, and I ask that the government provide me with an explanation of whether it is possible not to respect the court's decision and who is in the interest that a local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija does not function. Or have you already written off Kosovo and Metohija, perhaps that performance and the demands that we send somewhere to Pristina rather than Belgrade, since you, as far as I can see, do not want to work and do not want to help that local self-government work? Namely, what's going on? If you do not issue your beliefs, these three months will pass, and then the majority that makes the government will find that there has been no functioning of local self-government, that there is no holding session SO Leposavic; it will introduce temporary measures and bring its people to meet its goal of having at least one local self-government in which you exercise power. I don't think that way is appropriate because all the rules, all the laws, the court's decisions, the will of the people who went to the elections, and who trusted the Serbian radicals are not respected. All necessary documents I have obtained and delivered, and I will re-deliver, if necessary, in a double copy and in a triple, photocopier; I do not know how many RIK members, if so many copies are required, I will photocopy and deliver. But I just don't understand why it's just not put on the agenda and make a decision. There are some excuses that don't exist, because it's all clear and crystal clear, it just needs RIK to issue new beliefs because you can't return those committees when the court ruled that the mandates were taken by law. I see no reason why a local self-government on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, in this case the municipality of Leposavic, does not function as ordered by the Law on Local Self-Government. So I'm asking the government to explain whether it can stand in the way of the Republic Election Commission's self-will, which for the past two months does not want to comply with the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Selection of Councilors.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9938	Thank you. The 9th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Dujovic and Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9939	Madam President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I must confess that this is the first time I have reported three times for some law. However, perhaps in some ways it worked out well for me this great energy from the Minister who has been listening to us here for how many days, but actually the real motive is that I remain, unfortunately, deeply convinced that this is a very bad law. I simply wanted to take another chance, not to mention again the arguments I had already talked about, to invite Mrs. Minister to withdraw this law and to undoubtedly reform the network of courts in Serbia, which I do not dispute at all, in a more comprehensive way. I'm not saying, I'm going to repeat, that there should be 138 courts left, but I think there should be a lot more than 34 left. There, of course, must be respected and all specificities... (President: Will you please allow the speaker to speak?) ) Therefore, all specificities and legitimate requirements should be respected from those places where national minorities live and from those parts of Serbia where roads are bad, where they are empty and where it will not be easy for judges from other cities to come daily to judge. So, one rational and reasonable proposal should be made, and I believe that this proposal would then receive support in this House, possibly even from all parliamentary groups. I reported on the amendment, which, if I'm not mistaken, was submitted by fellow SPS colleagues, but, in fact, it is also Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic's amendment. It is an entirely identical amendment and I would also ask the committees responsible, but also the professional services of the Assembly, this has nothing to do with this law now but speak in principle, that in the future, when identical amendments come up from several authors, that this is precisely emphasized and that then, of course, the debate can be held uniquely. This is extremely logical, although it is not decidedly written in the current Rules of Procedure. It is perfectly logical that two MPs, independently of each other, submit an identical amendment, that, firstly, the amendment is discussed unanimously, and secondly, it has the same fate, so either the government accepts it or does not accept it. We had one case on this law the other day, it's an interesting theoretical legal issue, where an amendment from the ruling majority was accepted, I think it was a trade court in Krusevec, and the same amendment from the opposition was rejected. Imagine now that, in the day of voting, the amendment the government rejected, although the amendment in the same text of the other MP, was rejected at the time of the vote. The theoretical question arises whether the amendment has actually become part of the law or not become part of the law? Of course, it's not the minister's fault, it's the council's competent board, and even more are the people of the Assembly's administration. I think that, in principle, in one more quality way, we must prepare the amendments that we receive to the laws, and when it is concluded that two or more MPs from different parliamentary groups have submitted the same amendment, in the same text, then there is no need to discuss each one in particular. In that sense, it is pointless for me to report for this amendment, not for the same amendment by Mr Hajdarevic. With this I will conclude, with one more, and this time last, an application to withdraw this law or, which is an alternative, to accept Mrs. Radovic's amendment, which practically retains the status quo in the existing law and thus prepare a quality text of law on the network of courts by the end of 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9940	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9941	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Article 226. I ask one notice from you: have you managed to schedule a joint session of two committees, the Industry Committee and the Privatisation Committee, and have you managed to obtain confirmation that Ministers Skundric and Dinkic will be present on these committees? If you have failed to obtain these certificates by now and to announce whether the session of those two committees will be scheduled on Friday, can you only say when we will receive full information so that we can prepare ourselves in the most appropriate way for these two committees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9942	I asked the board presidents to contact each other and give me an appointment, and then I'd call the ministers when I knew what time it was. Friday's an orientation day. However, you know that only in the event that they don't call the president to a joint session then I have the right, but I think they're just doing it and they'll let me know by the end of the day or tomorrow morning at the latest. Mr. Dusan Maric, then Mr. Jojic, then Mr. Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9943	Ladies and gentlemen, I support the amendment submitted by colleagues Dujovic Sasa and Milicevic Djordje. I will explain this support in the shortest possible way: the draft law did not provide any convincing reason why the Municipality court in Priboj and the Municipalityal Public Prosecutor's Office in Priboj, as well as municipal courts and municipal public prosecutors in most other towns in Serbia, should be abolished. This amendment and the arguments that were heard in its defence are the best confirmation that the ruling majority and the government as a proposing should reconsider all these arguments and that this bill should be withdrawn from the procedure. As one of the reasons for submitting such a bill, the Proposer stated his belief that its adoption would contribute to a faster and more efficient implementation of justice. In my opinion, it's a loose hypothetical assumption based on replacement thesis. I think the issue of inefficient justice in Serbia is not about how many courts and prosecutors we have, but whether these courts, in particular in the case of prosecutors, are doing their job. In my opinion, that's not the case. In the last month, we have been from this booth, in the media by journalists, by opposition politicians, but also by individual directors of public enterprises and ministers in the Serbian government, heard numerous data on astronomical payments in certain public enterprises. That the prosecutor's office in Serbia is doing its job, I believe some of these payments or, at the very least, some of these statements should already be the subject of the work and interest of public prosecutors. Instead, we listen to explanations that all these astronomical payments have been made in accordance with the law. The only objection ministers have on their directors in public enterprises, on their board presidents is the lack of feeling for a social moment; it's a good thing they took that money, it's only bad that they did it at this political moment. For Serbia's citizens and for the sake of the public, I will remind myself once again of these figures that have been taken out of this booth and in the means of information: NIS - the salary of the director of 600,000 dinars, the Agency for Flight Control - 466,000 dinars, JAT - 348.846 dinars, the Airport "Nikola Tesla" - 382.210 dinars, EPS - 297.740 dinars, "Electro Network of Serbia" - 289.713 dinars (only I don't know where these 13 dinars were found), "Serbia gas" - 287.495 dinars, "Transnaft" - 287,272 dinars, "Serbias" (they still dropped modest) - 165.184 diaries, "The Railways of Serbia" are also included in the category of modest directors from 135.784 dir. These salaries look like those prices to me, when you walk into a supermarket somewhere, you read the price of 5,999 dinars there. Tanjug - 33,000 dinars, RATEL - 200,000 dinars, Telecom - 222,000 dinars, Galenika - 282,000 dinars. After a call to the public, the Galenika Management Board announced that the salary of the director from the previous - 382,000 was reduced by 100,000 dinars and now amounts to 282,000 dinars. Why am I quoting this as information? I cite for the reason that I believe that this pay cut of 100,000 dinars points to the way that salary was previously determined. Here's a few more information: the director of Bojan Kristo Airport in the name of the bonus paid itself 880,000 dinars in June. Bojan Kristo, according to Mladjan Dinkic, receives 350,000 dinars per month, plus a bonus of 150,000 dinars. A foreign colleague from G17 Velimir Radosavljevic, Kristo, paid 538,000 dinars as a consultant in two months. We heard here that in one month he made a bill of half a million dinars on the official phone. The other day in the paper we read the text that the director of the Central Charter Register of value Vida Seljec received a salary of 1,200,000 dinars in November. Former director of DDOR Novi Sad Bogdan Kuzmanovic resigned from the firm and took an severance of 226,000 euros. Former director of the "Nikola Tesla" Airport and "The Ski resorts of Serbia" Nebojsa Nedeljkovic took 3,760,000 dinars in the name of severance in eight months. Assuming that Nedeljkovic, as his successor, Kristo, had a monthly salary of 350,000 dinars per month, practically raised 6,560,000 dinars or 800,000 dinars per month for the past eight months. Former JAT Technology Director Radoslav Tomasevic, who turned to the post of Assistant Minister of Infrastructure, took 2,150,000 dinars for severance. Radivoj Rajakovic, who also worked at the Airport, paid 3,515,656 dinars for the severance. Immediately after receiving the severance, I quote what was said for this pay phone or published in the media, Rajakovic moved to a new post in "Skivals of Serbia". Only three more information: in January 2008, 141 workers' severances were paid at 121,617,763 dinars, about a million dinars of severance per worker. In October of this year, 60 airport workers received a severance of 30,000 dinars. We have practically first-row workers who receive a million dinar severance and second-row workers who receive a severance of 30,000 dinars. His secretary, Mira Nikolic, then, was paid 1,314,000 dinars in the name of severance. The latest data says – former director of the Management Board "Telecoma" Milan Christmas received 1.500,000 dinars in May of this year. On the basis of Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I request the following notices from the Serbian Government. Under one, a list of directors of all 28 public enterprises in Serbia, a list of presidents and board members of all public enterprises with the amount of their monthly salaries and all other receipts in 2007 and 2008. Under two, the party membership of all directors, presidents and board members of public enterprises in Serbia. In my opinion, after carrying out this data, and they have been out in public for a month, the public prosecutor's office must react and initiate proceedings against people who have allowed this robbery of citizens of Serbia, the budget and the budget of these public enterprises or to take action against those who have presented this false data.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9944	Mr. Jojic, you have five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted in any case is more effective and better regulated by the seat and the area of the court in question and the prosecution in question to which the amendment applies. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say something, if you'll allow me, about this system of law, and also about the prosecutions and the courts. I ask the question, can the Law on Judges explicitly predict the choice of judges of all judges and thus come from the assumption that there were no judges or judges in Serbia before him? To this question, the expert public answers, I can tell you, very negatively. The proposed proposal for a law on judges, however, provides, as it relies on a possible interpretation of the Constitutional Law that the judicial system after the 2006 Serbian Constitution is based aditito, meaning from the beginning. That the legislator had fallen into a trap set up by the witnesses and the transitional provisions of the draft law on the high council of the judiciary, which is the constitutional body. This proposal distinguishes the first composition of the High Council of the judiciary and the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary, which is chosen in different ways, which is unacceptable, because the first Council of the High Court is the one that has to pass the electoral procedure in the same way that should be passed, if this bill is adopted, all holders of judicial functions when it comes to judges. It is not good that the Constitutional Law prescribes that constitutional discontinuity exists. If this discontinuity existed when capitalist Serbia became a socialist under the Constitution since 1946, i.e. the communist state, it had to exist even when the 2006 Constitution of Socialist Serbia again became a capitalist state. The existence of such discontinuity is also reflected in the way in which the court mandate is entrusted. Under the former Constitution, all judges were elected by the National Assembly and immediately entrusted with them with a permanent mandate. The current constitution distinguishes two categories of judges: judges with limited and judges with a permanent mandate. The limited term of office of three years shall be entrusted in accordance with Article 147(1). The Constitution, and the National Assembly, when the judge is elected for the first time, trusts the permanent mandate under Article 147(2). The Constitution. Since the Constitution only guarantees the continuity of office to judges who have chosen the high council of the judiciary, the judges found must submit to this re-election in order to continue to perform the judicial function with full legitimacy. Otherwise, in three years Serbia's citizens will be tried by two types of permanent judges: those entrusted by the National Assembly as a legislative body and those entrusted by the high council of the judiciary. Judges with a permanent mandate, chosen in different ways by the authorities in different procedures, will not be able to ensure equal protection of citizens' rights under Article 36(1). The constitution, without it, cannot be independent or impartial or just. Therefore, at this point, all judges must be elected in the same way as the SRS stands for, as well as in the process before the National Assembly should not allow the Government and politics to decide here and choose judges by similarity. As regards the provisions of Article 11. The draft law on judges, there's one big mistake. What mistake is that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? The provision of this article reads: "The judge is exercising labour rights in accordance with the rules governing the rights of the working relationship of the elected persons, if this law is not otherwise laid down." However, ladies and gentlemen, judges are not in a working relationship, judges are elected officials, elected as persons; elected judges should have this status, not the one proposed by the proposal. As for the reasons for introducing judicial councils, how is that in parallel law, ladies and gentlemen? The Judicial Council is not an institute that is widely accepted in Europe, nor in world terms. Also, the existence of a judicial council is not an international obligation of states that are seriously seeking to establish the rule of law. There are many European and non-European states whose judiciary is considered to be exemplary, but they do not have such a permanent selection system, as is the case in the bill. In his day, there was only the crown advice of Queen Elizabeth and England. So we won't let anything like this happen with us. The new constitutional position of the judges - I would like to point out that the constitutional position of the judges is worsened by the new constitution compared to the constitutional position of the 1990 Constitution judges. The constitutional position of the judge was worsened in relation to the situation so far, first because it had deviated from the senseless rule on the continuity of the judicial function established by the 1990 Constitution. The constitution does not contain reasons, this is very important, for the termination of judicial office, and especially not the reasons for resolution, which gives the legislator broad opportunities for abuses and the choice of judges by political membership.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9946	Mr. Radulovich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9947	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry, I am sorry that Mrs Malovic is not in the hall at this time because this is about one, in my opinion, a very important amendment. To be honest, I expected that the SPS colleagues who submitted this amendment, Mr Sasa Dujovic and Milicevic Djordje, would come out here and defend this amendment because this amendment, which concerns the law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, is of great importance to the citizens of the Municipality of Priboj. MPs from that parliamentary group, as well as from the DSS parliamentary group, received a systolic letter from the citizens of the Municipality of Priboj, in which they warn us of the importance of further existence both of the primary court in Priboj, or of the municipal court in Priboj, as well as of the municipal prosecutor's office. As you know, Priboj is a strategically significant municipality. It is a border municipality, which, according to the 1991 census, had 35,800 inhabitants, and according to the 2002 census, about 30,000 inhabitants. However, according to our knowledge, there are currently some 25,000 inhabitants living in Priboj. In view of the fact that a large number of economic operators there do not practically exist and that there is already a problem with the car factory Priboj, that there is a large number of nursing households in the municipality and that there is a large number of migration of the population, mostly young people leaving Priboj, by shutting down a large number of state institutions and institutions (i.e. customs, financial police, income management), by shutting down the basic, i.e. municipal and prosecutorial courts, practically citizens of Prytoj feel that they are getting more or less of the status of a local community and that the state is not taking care of their interest. Given that Preboj is a border municipality, the extent of crime, smuggling, illicit trade, illegal crossings has been increased. For these reasons, we believe that it is necessary to remain in the Municipality of Prboj both the basic court and the public prosecutor's office. In a several-day debate here, regarding the draft law on basic courts and public prosecutors, we have reasoned on why the law is bad. First of all, we have a large number of amendments, practically from all backgrounds in Serbia's territory. When I say from all backgrounds, I also think of a huge number of citizens who have, in some way, asked for the protection of their elemental rights from all MPs, regardless of party membership, whether they are from the ruling coalition or from opposition parties. This law is bad and it shows 124 amendments to only 19 members of this law, an opinion given by the profession itself, an explanation indicating that the law is passed for purely economic reasons, which is not valid, because it is about to increase the costs related to judges' diaries, artists, interpreters, prosecutors and all those involved in the work of basic courts and prosecutors. We also think that the law is also politically bad, because it is a bad message to citizens from those environments where basic courts and prosecutors are being shut down. Since this is more or less the last chance to address you, Mrs Malovic, I expect and the DSS expects you to respect all these reasons that we have presented here in the debate for several days and that you will withdraw this bill from the procedure, which is in the general interest of all citizens. In the end, I would like to tell Mr. Petronievich that we are just showing how constructive we are, because, according to your amendments, we are reporting for words and defending them. We work exclusively in the interests of citizens, and we don't want to be destructive. And to you, Madam President, my last name is Radulovic, not Radulovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9948	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9949	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic has submitted an amendment to Article 9(1) where point 27 is converted to point 28) and is said to have established a basic public prosecutor's office in Ruma for the area of the basic court in Ruma. I am prepared to support this amendment, especially seeing Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic not in the O.R. As far as I saw in the explanation why the government rejected this amendment, the Legislative Committee, whose president is Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, said the amendment is legally possible. I'm surprised Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic didn't come out to defend his amendment. He's probably busy or he's got other things to do. But the point is quite different. Maybe someone told Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic - don't defend the amendment because you're an MP for the ruling coalition. I think that's the thing, but well, I think that's Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic's problem. The essence of the law spoken of by MPs over the past four or five days is that the law is bad. The problem solves Mrs. Milice Radovic's amendment, withdraw the law. It's the only solution, because this is irreparable to the amendments. It's just irreparable. The previous amendments discussed all public prosecutors in border municipalities that remain without basic public prosecutors. One of the parameters and criteria that you have instructed in the reasoning of the law is the availability of justice. Justice is available, it's just a little long, it's about 100 or 150 kilometers somewhere less, somewhere more, so those parameters and criteria that you listed in the law's reasoning just don't stand. By no standard, it simply doesn't stand. It's not just the prosecution. Problems are far bigger and far more dangerous for Serbian citizens. We have reached the draft budget law and this is interesting for Serbian citizens to hear one data and one figure: a budget deficit of 49,000,000,000 dinars is foreseen. But whoever takes the budget and adds up the economic classification of 422, and that economic classification means - travel costs, comes to a figure of 5,640,000,000 dinars, which amounts to more than 10% of the budget deficit. Now, if a man asks you where you travel, where do these 5,600,000 thousand dinars go? Well, the trip to the moon doesn't cost that much. Another example in budget rebalancing: The General Secretariat of the Government numbers 122 employees; the item of travel costs - 94 million. When you share it with the number of employees, one employee spends two annual average salaries in Serbia. Restrictive budget, socially responsible government. I'm asking you again, where are you traveling to? If you look at other things in that budget, it's easy to get a man's hair on his head. In one article, I found that, for example, the increase in salaries of employees in the Republic Health Insurance Institute is far greater than the increase in health workers’ salaries. So, what's this Health Insurance Agency for? To spend taxpayers' money that way? Well, where do people pay you money and why do they pay it? For your treatment. Why was the construction of the Republic Health Insurance Office building so late for so many months? Why was that building budget broken? Why did that come out over a hundred million more? Is someone supposed to be responsible for that? Did any of the MPs of the ruling coalition ever read and remember anything from Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's exposé? What pre-election promise was kept? Let's go see some items. What happened to the extended fact of the general collective agreement on the increase, or to the cost of 15% of the average salary? When the finance minister was sitting here, I calculated that the 15% increase in the average salary is 1,600,000 dinars, and that 75% of the one-time aid for the regression amounted to 400,000 euros. That's two billion euros. I'm asking, do you have that money to pay? Then we watch right now where that money comes from. Okay, why did you sign that contract? Why did Mr. Gajic sign that contract? What are union representatives doing outside the government building today? What are they complaining about? Because of the government's responsibility. What about free shares? Where's that thousand euros? Where is a thousand euros for five million full-year Serbian citizens? Who's gonna pay for that? Does the Socially Responsible Government have any money for that? Come on, give these people a thousand euros and we've solved the problem, no crisis, five billion euros, nothing. So the government that does what it does, who lied to the citizens in the previous campaign, who doesn't care about its population, doesn't deserve to be in power any more days. Every day with a government like this is a loss for the state and for the citizens of Serbia. It is also surprising that in their comments and statements last night, MPs of the ruling coalition accuse the opposition MPs of obstructing the work of the Assembly in connection with the adoption of a set of judicial laws. We'll see if that's the case. The day before yesterday, the MPs of the opposition, and you, Madam Minister, witnessed it, were also denied the right to speak according to amendments, let alone the Rules of Procedure. So you don't let us talk about the subject, you don't let us talk about the Rules of Procedure. Is there anything that suits you at all? You're saying there's no dialogue. Well, dialogue takes two. Do you think dialogue is only when you agree on how to deploy money from the budget within the ruling coalition? It's a dialogue for you. What are the ultimate intentions of this government? That by creating an affair, by raising fog, dust, this people's thoughts, which is already on the verge of hunger, on the main topic, and the main theme is the arrival of the Eulex mission to Kosovo. What is the task of the Eulex? The task of Eulex is to work to establish the independence of the so-called "independence". Narcotics of Kosovo. You're looking at it calmly. You're saying that Eulex will be statusally neutral. So what kind of mission is it that sets up customs, brings judges? By what laws will these judges, by the laws of which states? Do you have an answer to that question? What are the laws under which Judge Eulex will judge? So come on, come out once, and say, "We are the ruling coalition, where the strongest party is the Democratic Party, we have held secret negotiations, we have confessed EULEX, we have called EULEX, we have spoken one thing, and we have done another." Say it loud and clear once. We have deceived you. Such questions, not one, but hundreds of such questions. Is there any answer? No answer. Mr. Jojic asks a question, and he gets five kilos of material. There are not many questions raised to the government and to the ministers of the answer. Even when some questions are asked, they're trying to bring the MPs into the ministry and show them the papers for insight, as the head of the agriculture minister's cabinet has asked me to come to the ministry and get him to give me the papers. I asked – are you bringing me in? If I have asked a parliamentary question regarding the spending of ten million euros on mosquitoes and ticks and the destruction of ambrosia, am I obliged to be brought in to explain to me what the problem is? You have a duty to answer that question in writing. Maybe I'll get twice as much paper as Mr. Jojic, and maybe I won't get those papers at all. Do you even have an answer to any questions? Do you even know what you're doing? That's not how you run the country. It's not a socially responsible government, it's an irresponsible government. Every day is a terrible loss for the state and for the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9950	The word is Mr. Martinovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, of course, I am not afraid, I deeply appreciate and respect you, above all as a lady and as a woman who has great expertise, but I made a little joke with you because you made a face expression, like "Do you really have to go through the amendment again?" But I won't be long. So, I think Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic's amendment is absolutely justified, founded and that the government should have accepted it. I think it's perfectly logical that there's a basic public prosecutor's office in Ruma and there's a basic court. The municipality of Ruma has more than 60,000 inhabitants, it is relatively large, covering 16 villages. I think it was absolutely logical to keep an existing judicial network. I just don't know why Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic didn't explain this amendment himself. We are in a bit of a strange situation, opposition MPs must defend the amendments submitted by MPs from the ruling coalition. I still claim what I said a few days ago -- that all these amendments submitted by MPs from the ruling parties are actually a means to wash their conscience before the citizens of the municipalities from which these MPs come. I don't think the MPs of the ruling coalition in voting day will vote for their amendments. I think the fear of the government will be stronger than the obligations these MPs have towards their citizens. But that's just my claim, they can deny me in voting day, show that they're free lawmakers, that they're brave, that they're determined, that they have certain personal and political integrity and that in the day of voting, contrary to the government's opinion, they vote for their amendments. By the way, this amendment is interesting in the context of what I just said. I said there are interactive maps on The Hague tribunal's site; the government can look at these maps and see how the UN tribunal's prosecution and the complete UN tribunal experience the Republic of Serbia. So Serbia is divided into three parts. The internal borders between Vojvodina and the central part of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija and the central part of Serbia are treated as state borders. This is more proof that for The Hague tribunal and for the states behind The Hague tribunal Kosovo and Metohija is already an independent state. All these stories that we have achieved with the SAA a great success, that it is not all lost, etc., unfortunately, falling into the water before the fact that for the UN tribunal and for the states that formed it, which finance it and support it, Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, an independent state, is separated from the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, Mr. Cosic, I'm sorry that Mrs. Minister isn't here, but on this interactive map there is room for Ruma, so the municipality mentioned in this amendment. This map reads: "Click on the red dot for a brief review and a list of cases in which the international court has been proven or claimed to have committed crimes in a particular area". This map and all accompanying texts serve as a prelude to getting acquainted with the crimes committed in wars in the former Yugoslavia. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, war crimes took place in Ruma! The war crimes, according to the UN tribunal's prosecutor's office, are responsible for no one but Vojislav Seselj because he gave a speech in Hrtkovci on 6 May 1992, saying that all those loyal to the state of Serbia could remain in Serbia, that he would personally guarantee their security. He even explicitly said that all Croats serving in the JNA, whose sons are in the JNA, have his word that, as far as members and supporters of the SRS are concerned, they will be safe. The UN tribunal's prosecution has, imagine, interpreted it as a war crime or, more specifically, a violation of the laws and customs of war. As you can see on this map, in Ruma... In fact, he is referring to the Krtkovci, because one of the counts against Vojislav Seselj also refers to this incriminating speech by Dr Vojislav Seselj in Hrtkovci. You all claim, as we say, that the Republic of Serbia did not wage any wars, that no military operations were conducted in the territory of the Republic of Serbia during the period for which the UN tribunal was responsible, if we exclude NATO intervention, or aggression in 1999. Unfortunately, the UN tribunal does not acknowledge that. Here, as you can see, Ruma is marked as one municipality in Vojvodina, or Serbia, where war crimes are allegedly committed. Unfortunately, as I read this proposal for the 2009 budget, the government has provided significant funding for the co-operation office with The Hague tribunal. All these facts we present to you are not enough. In addition to all that the UN tribunal is doing, not only with Vojislav Seselj but with all Serbs who are being accused or who are being tried or convicted before the UN tribunal, you do not respect these arguments. We have shown you today a map in which the UN tribunal has completely violated its jurisdiction. So he no longer sees himself as some kind of judicial institution, as an institution of justice. It's a purely political institution. That is how it is seen from these cards in which The Hague tribunal divides Serbia into three parts: Vojvodina, Serbia and Kosovo. Kosovo, on these cards, is already an independent state; Vojvodina, if we have in mind the fact that Novi Sad is marked by a point rather than a black square, is not yet a state, but you from the ruling coalition are heartily helping them to declare that third part of Serbia -- Vojvodina, too, to an independent state. Here, we are here to make this work difficult for you and, as far as the SRS is concerned, and I think all patriotic organisations in Serbia, that attempt to break Serbia and create some independent state of Vojvodina will not come after you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9952	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say what I intend to say about the amendment, and I've spoken a lot on this subject, of course, I'm not tired of it, it seems to me it would be good to hear in two sentences just as the report on the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in the annual session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Valencia from 15 to 18 November 2008. The theme, among other things, was the report "Kosovo and the Future of Security in the Balkans" by General Rapporteur Vitaly Kansas. It is said that on behalf of the Serbian Parliament there were Marko Djurisic, head of delegation; Oedipus Sheriff, MP; Dragan Šormaz, MP; Igor Bečić, Bozidar Delic, former MPs; Ivana Bozovic, delegation secretary and Ivana Vukovic, translator. Why do I want to mention this? Because the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Valencia on the subject of "Kosovo and the Future of Security in the Balkans" did not speak to representatives of parliament, except Marko Djurisic, who asked the question of what the next moves of this parliamentary assembly, related to Kosovo and Metohija, would be. So, said Dragan Shormaz. The head of the delegation, Marko Djurisic, referred the question to the board president whether the delegation of the interim assembly of Kosovo and Metohija has the right to speak. Dragan Shormaz said more than that. The rest of them went there to sneak around, take a walk. I think we should keep an eye on who we're sending there and what kind of assignment someone's going with and that, from time to time, this Parliament should consider these reports. I'm not going to elaborate on that right now. Just for the record. When it comes to amendment to Article 9, as well as all amendments that have been submitted, 122 or 124 amendments, it is interesting that in one part I have to agree with what Mrs Vesna Pesic said this morning. She asked Mrs Malovic if she as a minister could guarantee that these laws would be applied within the deadlines provided for in the final provisions, or in December of next year we will see again a representative of the government who will explain to us the additions or amendments to this law, which will extend the deadline for the application of this law. I don't like to bet, but I was ready and I'm willing to bet with Madam Minister that it's definitely going to happen, and that's good. That's good not because we spent a week here discussing this proposal and all these suggestions from so-called. a set of laws in the area of justice, it's good because it's still not going to create this chaos that these laws, if really applied in the area of justice, would bring. Article 9 speaks of basic public prosecutions. I have submitted amendments to the judicial network on the territory of the Tutin municipality. Here I suggested that Article 9, which lists 30 basic public prosecutors, provides for the primary public prosecutor's office in the Sjenica area of the basic court of Sjenica and the main public prosecutor's office in Tutin for the primary court in Tutin. I think there are a lot of arguments to the fact that we should adopt these amendments. The previous days were discussed by colleagues Sheriff Hamzagic, Kenan Hajdarevic, representatives of the DSS and myself. We all agreed that it was necessary for these amendments to be adopted. I'm talking about these because it's logical. The government says it cannot adopt this amendment because it has not adopted the amendment to Article 3. To remind you, Article 3 is talking about a network of basic courts in Serbia's territory. It is clear that these amendments are bound. In the very explanation of the amendment, I wrote that this amendment was a logical follow-up to the amendments that I submitted to Article 3 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. The problem is that the Government's representative did not want to accept the amendment to Article 3. Not only the amendment I submitted, not only the amendments submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs, but all amendments. There really is no solution to this problem, except that... There are, in fact, three solutions: one thing is to accept absolutely all amendments, the other is to accept the amendment of counterpart Milice Radovic, but the best solution would be that, until it is too late, the bill is withdrawn from the procedure. It is obvious that this is a general opinion and I will not miss this opportunity, since there are only a few amendments left, to invite all MPs, all colleagues who have submitted these amendments, to vote for their amendments, first of all, but also not to vote in favour of the law in the day of voting. It's the only way to have an honorable and responsible relationship with the citizens who chose you. I fully consciously and deliberately want those who follow the work of this Parliament to know that the Serbian public knows how the MPs treat the citizens who sent us here. So the citizens of Tutina insist and say it will be terrible if the primary court is abolished in Tutina, if the court for offences is abolished in Tutina, if the main public prosecutor's office is abolished, that it will mean about 150 people without a job in this situation. At a time when Boris Tadic, a few days ago, told everyone to fight for their jobs, employees of the Tutin municipality's judiciary fight, try to fight, report to MPs, pray that we help them. Tadic obviously meant some other kind of job struggle. God, the way things are, people are really gonna have to fight for their jobs. Tadic has protected those who are in government and ministries, state agencies, in various state bodies. That is why one of his ministers, Milan Markovic, is already announcing serious restrictions in local self-government; Mrs Malovic announces through these law restrictions in the area of justice. That's certainly not a good solution. It is not a good solution that a small municipality like Tutina, which has 99 villages, the farthest village from the center of Tutina is 41 km away, has no these state authorities and has no such branch of government. Because if in one such small place you lift the courts, if you cancel high school because you estimate there aren't enough students, if you cancel some primary school villages because you estimate that the state doesn't pay for a couple of students in a village, there's a school there, and you don't think about building kindergartens, so anything that could possibly keep the citizens from living in their homes, in Tutin, you're actually doing the opposite of that, you're forcing them to move out, to come to Belgrade, to find their way here. Here, they say, at least they can make something on black, in Tutin they can't, they can't just work there and make money... When in such a small place you leave 30 employees in the court and the prosecution without a job, people who already have maybe 20 or 30 years of work experience, what can they expect, how can they continue to function, how can they live? They don't have anywhere to work, because they won't go to court or the New Market Public Prosecutor's Office because they're waiting there for people who are already employed. In Novi Pazar, you will probably have to allocate large funds to extend the building of the current municipal court because there you will now gather, maltene, the whole of Raška district, that is, a large part of the Rasko County and a large part of the Zlatibor County, which is completely out of mind and certainly not a good solution. I ask you once again, fellow Members, that in the day of voting you make sure that we are not here for ourselves, that we are here to meet, as far as possible, the demands of the Serbian citizens daily. I am convinced that you, on this side, who will vote for this law, will receive as much as we do from citizens from the field. The work of this Parliament is monitored and it is good to follow, it is good for citizens to know how their representatives represent them here and it will be good when we declare ourselves in the day of the vote. Dear citizens, if this law on the network of courts is passed, then be assured that your representatives from the Democratic Party, G 17 and the Socialist Party of Serbia have failed you because they (of course, not all, but some of them) have submitted amendments on your behalf because you asked them to. If they really respect the will of the voters, then they will vote against this law and then we will avoid the chaos in the justice system that awaits us if, God forbid, this law and that law on judges who predict the lustration of judges, which predicts the formation of party courts, which provides for the removal from the workplace of all those judges and all those prosecutors who have had the courage to oppose these executives and tycoons. Unfortunately, it is obvious that this law is not the work of Mrs Malovic, as much as she here nods her head when we talk and smiles at every one of our discussions; this law is still the work of someone else who has far more serious and much more dangerous interests in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9954	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. Describing its amendments to Art. I said on the 3rd and 4th of this law that this amendment and amendments to Article 4 of the Law would be closely linked to each other, i.e. to each other. That is why I will only remind you in the Assembly and the Government's representatives that the amendment to Article 3 provides for the primary court to remain in Surdulica and to be one of the two basic courts at the level of the Pcinian Administrative District that I have foreseen. Then, of course, it is logical that, at the level of that basic court in Surdulica, the main public prosecutor's office which will certainly be responsible for the municipality of Surdulica, the municipality of Vladicin Han and the municipality of Bosilegrad. You will agree with me that a number of arguments that contribute to the survival of the municipal, i.e. the basic court in Surdulica can be taken as an argument for the survival and basic public prosecutor's office, but, behold, a few more things I will be apostropheing because I think they are important and that, in principle, they are the priority reasons that should be stated here. Of course, before I say any of that, I'm going to repeat something that I've said every time about this pay phone, about this law, which is two things. First of all, I want to get an answer from the Prime Minister in whose interest it is to adopt this law, because it is not an interest of the opposition, and for God's sakes, not a good part of the position, and to draw attention to the government's representatives once again to do nothing that this law will put into effect in one unensuspective way. So if all of you sitting here are principled, if you support your amendments, or if you do not vote for this law, this law will not come into force. The fact that the government, I would say, is indifferent or deaf to all these amendments may not be a surprise. If you consider how the government treated much harder and more serious things, then this is no surprise. You all had a chance to see the maps Mr. Martinovic was showing. These are maps from an official international court site founded by the UN. If an international organisation, such as the United Nations, has given itself the right to cross borders in such a way, to recognise borders internationally, and to lack the government's reaction, the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Justice, then you understand how the government will treat these amendments. Then it is ironic to get into a situation where the representatives of the majority share lessons to opposition representatives that we do not want to adopt this law or we will be accused of not wanting to bring the budget, which should provide funds for our citizens from Kosovo and Metohija. That's really ironic. This budget that's supposed to be in front of us, I don't know when it's gonna be, came into congregation procedure on Monday. On Monday, he arrived in the process because the senseless and hotheads in the government couldn't agree on who would take the money for his portfolio. The burden of that responsibility is now being transferred to opposition, and it is our fault that we cannot adopt budgets or laws that will provide money for Kosovo and Metohija. Then, despite the fact that your reaction to such maps has failed, you wonder why we question your relationship with Eulex, or your intentions, together with the EU and the international community, at least when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. What I would also say concerns yesterday's session, when we are called by the majority's representatives to solidarity to overcome the crisis in this country. If the dominant part of the left was solidarity, I am convinced that the previous government would not fall. Your government, the previous government in which you were dominant, was not torn apart by disagreement over Serbia's rural development strategy, but precisely about Kosovo and Metohija and your relationship with Kosovo and Metohija. Calling us and giving us criticism that we're not ready for solidarity is really untasteful. In that tone and manner, the debate on this law will take place, and all other laws will be discussed in front of this congregation on the agenda. Gentlemen of the Government, the representatives of the Ministry, I will present a few more arguments in favour of this amendment, and I will try to convince you to accept it, I think that it will all be in vain, but not because of you, but because of the public who is watching us and because of all those who are in the Pcinj County, in particular in the municipalities of Surdulica, Vladičin Han and Bosilegrad, will be directly or indirectly affected by such a punitive law. I sincerely hope he doesn't get a chance to apply himself. In addition to that, I will say the following fact - you adopted the Justice Reform Strategy in 2006, you adopt the law at the end of 2008, and you will apply it in 2010. This application is objectively questionable and is almost uncertain. As for the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Surdulica, I'll start with what might be the least important. The value of the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office building in Surdulica is estimated at over 90,000,000 dinars, from foundation to roof is absolutely technically equipped. The state and local self-government made great efforts ten years ago to bring it to such a level. You will objectively end it, and those are not enough arguments for you. On the other hand, Surdulica is a border municipality. Since I predicted that the public prosecutor's office would also be responsible for the municipalities of Bosilegrad and Vladic's Han, of course, when we talk about border municipalities, we must also mention Bosilegrad. These two municipalities cover 100 km of state borders with the Republic of Bulgaria or, if you prefer, with the European Union. All that carries with it the fact that you have two border crossings in this area, and you are left without a basic court, without a prosecutor's office, seriously questioning your intentions in the context of European integration and standards. The laws we passed here a few days ago did not impose the European Union on you, or for all of us, because it believes that we should define, establish and affirm standards that have long been in force in Europe. Of course, they protect themselves because Serbia, or the municipalities of Surdulic and Bosilegrad, those 100 km, represents the external border of the European Union. They want to protect themselves from us and from phenomena that could possibly be painted there. But if we and that poor intention of Europe don't see and find an interest in us, so that we can raise standards at least at that part of our state border, then really every comment is out of line. You will leave two border crossings without a court, or a public prosecutor's office. What border crossings, given the geographical location of them, carry with them, are known by those who come from border municipalities and who have border crossings. I will remind you, these border crossings are on the road from the east to the west, i.e. on the main or one of the main routes of drugs from the east to the EU, and among other things, regardless of the fact that they are in transit through Serbia, part of it, unfortunately, you had a chance to watch it on TV a few days ago, stays in Serbia. There are enough reasons for you to leave the public prosecutor's office and the basic court in Surdulica so that you can act adequately when it comes to monsters that are objectively happening and present in Serbia, at least in this area. So if you wanted to, if you wanted to recognize the reasons and do something good for that end, you could have done it. Obviously, you don't want to, and in this context, this area will remain denied for the basic court, for the primary public prosecutor's office, and all of this will bring certain consequences and consequences. You don't want to see them. It seems to me, that's what I said, but I will repeat, unfortunately, the impression is that the law has been written by one who is experiencing Serbia from the roof of "Belgrade". I'd like you, gentlemen of the Ministry, to be my guests in Pcinj County, to take a walk together to Bosilegrad, to visit that neighborhood, to see how these people live. I think you'd find that much clearer then. What I will also mention as an argument is the fact that both Bosilegrad and Surdulica and Vladic's Han are multinational environments. I think you could also consider that in the context of the exercise of human and minority rights. These people there have expressed their support, i.e. offices for both one and the other national minorities, have given support to such an amendment, and I will repeat, relieved of political and some ideological aspects. What I am pleased about, if nothing else, is that all the amendments I have submitted on behalf of the SRS have received absolute legitimacy and support from citizens living downstairs. This is what I'm going to end up with, gentlemen of the Ministry, today I've opened this topic, given that I've had the opportunity to speak to the people of the Slave Houses of Belgrade. Mr. Homen, Mr. Cosic, this is a verdict on behalf of the people, made in 2002. This is an executive verdict. It refers to some of the money that people have earned from 1995 to 2000. To this day, these judgments cannot be carried out, or they cannot receive the money that belongs to them. Be so kind as to be, as you were, so to speak, indifferent to 100 and some amendments, take advantage of your position and authority, do something positive and good, help these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9956	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9957	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Justice Ministry, I have come out to support this amendment by the MPs Mr Stevanovic. I think the amendment is extremely good. If the amendment is adopted, most of them are citizens of Surdulica. I'm sorry you didn't follow certain criteria when you proposed this law, which is, above all, the following criteria: the economic development of a certain municipality, and the municipality of Surdulica is an undeveloped municipality that has 4,000 unemployed, a municipality that has 20,000 inhabitants. You should have followed the criteria that this is a multinational municipality, where Bulgarian minorities and the Serb population live in harmony. Then, it's a municipality that's, above all, mountainous. The farthest populated place is 40 km away and is located at an altitude of more than 1,600 m on Cemernik, and since Cemernik is a mountain where we have large rainfall, the snow remains for a long time. I'm afraid by abolishing these courts, you'll create a problem for these people. Also, you should have made sure that Surdulica, as well as all of southern Serbia, is an area prone to migration. That's how you showed it, i.e. this government, so you don't think about southern Serbia. So let me give you a plastic example. I come from Leskovac municipality. The management of the municipality of Leskovac competed with the Ministry of National Investment Plan for certain capital projects, above all I mean the water system "Barje" and the waste water treatment plant. Since we got our consent, a tender has been launched to find the performer. Since the tender has been successfully done, the artist has been found. But we have received a letter from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this capital project Leskovac cannot realise, because there is not enough resources. I will propose these days to the municipality of Leskovac that we write a letter to the government of the Republic of Serbia where we will offer to sign a Stabilisation Agreement with them, so that the citizens of Leskovac enter Serbia. If they do not accept it, we will unilaterally apply the Stabilisation Agreement, as a sign of goodwill, because the citizens of Leskovec are citizens of the second order. The citizens of southern Serbia are second-class citizens. I hope that this government will come to mind and start thinking about southern Serbia, because it is its constitutional obligation. The citizens of southern Serbia and the citizens of the Jablanic district voted in favour of the Constitution, at the highest percentage -- 67%. Since they voted in favour of the Constitution, there is one provision in the Constitution, Article 94, which speaks of even regional development. This government does not do so, the previous one did, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and in addition it says that it has been paved hundreds of miles of roads, that it has passed Corridor 10 through the Jablani County and that many churches have been renovated and built up. Some say that after World War II between 2003 and 2007, the most churches were adapted and built in Jablani County. Many schools have received sports facilities. Every school got by computer. Many workers have been able to join their employment and retire peacefully. That's all the previous government, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, did. I propose that when the day of voting comes, the MPs of southern Serbia vote for amendments to the municipalities of southern Serbia and the other amendments submitted by the opposition MPs, and to you, gentlemen of the ministry, I propose two solutions: or that you accept Mrs. Milice Radovic's amendment, or that you withdraw this law from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9958	Thank you, Mr. Pejcic. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Sheriff Hamzagic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miletic Mihajlović and Zoran Kasalovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Mihajlović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9959	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the ministry, I am going out for the third time and I am talking about amendments on behalf of the SPS, the Unique Serbia, which have been submitted by Mr Kasalovic and my little ones. In fact, it is about amendments concerning judicial authorities for the municipality of Gornji Milanovac. First, we proposed to amend the existence of a basic court for the municipality of Gornji Milanovac, and then we suggested that the existence of a higher court for the area of the primary court in Gornji Milanovac and the basic court in Cačka be strengthened. Finally, this amendment proposed establishing the main public prosecutor's office in Gornji Milanovac for the area of the municipality. All these amendments are based on very real facts. I've talked about them in the previous days and there's no need to repeat it in the same size, but it's actually about facts in the context of the historical aspect and the two-century tradition. In fact, in this year, the Republic of Serbia should mark and celebrate a significant jubilee of the existence of Serbia's judiciary in this very area. Also, it is about facts that are in the context of geographical-demographic characteristics. It's about an area of nearly 900 square miles, with over 50,000 inhabitants. Finally, it's about the amount of work with an annual inflow of seven to eight thousand items that need to be solved there. I am sorry that this occasion is not present, but I think that the honourable representative of the ministry will transfer the advocates of the SPS and the Unique Serbia when it comes to these important facts and reasons for all these amendments to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9960	The word has been given by MP Mirko Munjic, also following this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9961	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is a logical consequence of the amendments relating to the survival, i.e. the survival of the so far-called Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac. In fact, the logical consequence of all other laws relating to the area of justice is this law on the seat of the courts. In a few words, I'm going to refer to the fact that we've been pointing out these days, which is that, in fact, I'm a bad concept of this law, as well as the other law in the field of justice that we used to have here in the procedure. I'm going to state some more reasons in favor of this fact. As the exchangeability of representative and executive authorities is a condition for the rule of law, so the continuity and immobility of the judicial function should be a sacred letter after the end of the elections. So, if, after the election, the legislative and executive authorities represent the political will of the voters, so the judicial function should be established as a permanent function. Where different systems have divided the government's common denominator of all these systems, all the differences in these systems are independence of the judicial function. The general choice or re-election of judges is known in many systems. But usually the re-election of judges has been done so far where revolutions have been, and you know that revolutions have been preceded by some confusion, both legal and political, economic, etc. Now there's one logical question: what made this government, what confusion has made this government go into a general choice, or re-election of judges? If the change in the Constitution is one of the elements, one of the conditions that forced the government to re-election judges, the exact continuity of the judicial function should be that dam that would prevent this from happening. Not after every constitution, as Mr Jojic pointed out earlier, can go according to the principle of ad initio, so from the beginning. You can't go back to the choice and re-election of judges after every law is passed. Not every new government can go to a new re-election of judges. If a judge is permanently elected as judge, one law cannot be returned to re-election. It's just that the continuity of the judge's function. The next argument in favour of the claim that the laws of the judiciary are legally unsustainable is the fact that the judge, unlike the representatives of the legislative and executive authorities, is a professional. At any moment, he needs to be a professional. As Monteskje says well – the judges are, in fact, the mouth from which the law originates. That must be absolutely respected. It is obvious that the aim of the promoter was not at all this, it was not at all that the judge would be the one whose mouth would pronounce the words of the law, as Monteskje says, but rather that here it was done on a different principle, to make clear the politicisation of the judiciary, in principle, to remove theirs to bring ours. It's the principle on which this government was based, the legislator, and here the only difference is that this is about legalizing that principle. So this law leads to the legalization of that principle. So far, the judiciary has been politicised, and we are all aware of that, but the adoption of these legal regulations in the area of justice will bring about the legalisation of this principle. These were just some of the reasons that contributed to the fact that these laws in the field of justice are legally unsustainable, that the concept of these laws is wrong. In particular, what happens if an amendment relating to the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac is not accepted? The amendment is a logical consequence of that amendment on the survival of the Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac. If this amendment is not accepted and this law is passed, as well as the other laws in the field of justice, it is certain that there will be an increase in the number of criminal offences, the prosecution will be overcrowded and covered by a number of criminal acts, so that many criminal charges will not be prosecuted. The prosecution in Cačka will also be responsible for cases from the municipality of Gornji Milanovac. I have to say that the prosecution in Chačka is now overcrowded with a number of cases. Or maybe it's some other reason, but there are a number of cases that the prosecution hasn't prosecuted. It's been a long time, even a few years, and some cases, some criminal charges still stand in drawers for various reasons. This refers in particular to the privatisation process of some social enterprises from the Chacan municipality. The question is, what happens when this prosecution is in charge of these other municipalities? It will be overcrowded with numerous criminal charges and there will be more unprocessed cases. That is one of the reasons why this amendment should be accepted. Courts in litigation will also be overrun. I note that the municipality of Gornji Milanovac has a diameter of 110km, 50,000 inhabitants; the distance of the longest village of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac to the seat of the current court and prosecution in Gornji Milanovac is 65km. Once the jurisdiction is transferred to the Municipality's Prosecutor's Office in Cacca, that distance will be about 100km. Let me just say one more fact in favor of this. The value of land in the villages of Gornji Milanovac municipality is 15 euros for the ar. Let me remind you that the value of a bag of fertilizer is over 30 euros. You need two acres of land for one bag of fertilizer. What's going to happen to these litigation cases? The epilogue of this will be that in many cases the costs of the procedure will be more than the value of the dispute than the value of the property in question. What's gonna happen? The litigator parties need to lead 100 kilometers of witnesses, just as many lawyers, just as skilled, and if that goes according to the court and the bar, how much is it going to cost, and what happens after all? There are two things that are possible: either people will have no legal interest in having a dispute, or after the end of the dispute they won't have the money to pay the costs. Neither one of these countries is in the best interest, so I think all the arguments for the motion that this law is withdrawn from the procedure stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9962	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic. You've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9963	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you see for yourself how many days we've been fighting a battle over these laws, which you see for yourselves are not welcome in both the Assembly and among the citizens of Serbia. For several days now, I have wanted to report on article 7, relating to the economic courts and amendments submitted by colleagues Zoran Bortic and Zoran Nikolic. They submitted these amendments in a great desire to help both the businesses and the citizens of Serbia (probably individuals interpreted it differently), in a keen desire for the economic court to be located in the territory of the Sabbath municipality, due to the difficult situation in which the Sabbath economy is located. Why is he in a difficult situation? Because there's been criminal privatisation. I asked a few questions on the Privatisation Committee today, but I must tell you that I am disappointed with both the response and the very attitude Dinkic tried to explain, or his associates, about privatisation, and the most painful thing about the gas agreement with the Russian company. He said there were talks, not negotiations, about this gas deal. He said there were three contracts to be signed. Apparently, he wants it back in the assembly procedure. But you saw after that, when Maras asked him another question between Minister Skundric and him, there were breaks, he retreated and said, I don't know, we'll see what tomorrow's deal will be like in the government. You can see that there is a big gap in the government itself, related to certain agreements or certain political points. I'm even thinking about whether there are individual pockets, as you can see for yourself how many opportunities there are in this Serbia, as regards all possible malversions and crime that are present. Sometimes citizens themselves wonder, and even those who are the greatest heroes of labor, peasants, do you even... I'd like to ask, if you could keep it down a notch. (The President: Gentlemen of the Messengers, please, a little quieter, distract the speaker. If the peasants, those who, believe me, with a hard time can survive and do their production, as I said today on the Committee on Agriculture... You have to believe me that today in production and in the market, as the peasant dresses... It's the production of perks from Albania. You see where the standard of one great martyr, peasants came from. I have to say, even though time is going on, I have to read something that's been going on for two years in Machvan County. That is one of our legitimate reasons for doubting justice and honesty when it comes to the former minister, our fellow citizen, Dusan Petrovic. He's so honest, that's why he was called the "Mr. Ten" people. This is what the citizens sent. I didn't write it. He's from a petty lawyer and a lawsuit he's never won. He's become a minister. On October 5th, he promised citizens serious changes and that all those who stole the citizens and the state would be arrested. Here's a few examples, there's really been a change; he let the thieves loose. As our district attorney's office is working effectively, we will point out on the case of a criminal case conducted in the prosecution under the number of KT 125607 for the criminal act of fraud referred to in Article 208(1). It is about Vlada Majstorović, who owns the company "MV Majstorović dil" based in Bogatic, who bought away to the farmers and for two years did not pay off for the taken goods. Please, because of the inability to collect their claims, the farmers were forced to turn to the prosecution for criminal charges...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9964	Please finish. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9965	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Zivanovic may have spoken for a little while longer than the time the Serbian Radical Party had at its disposal, but I also told the president of Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic's Parliament during his speech, so I will react because of the fact that now that I'm out for the pay phone, an absolute fly can't be heard, and when Mr Zivanovic spoke, I don't know why and what bothers you more, you from DS... No matter how many of you there are now twenty of you in the O.R., and if you're all there, you're reacting contrary to Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, and if Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic were Gordana Comic, which she is not and will never be, and if there were Serbian radicals, she would warn you and she would give you warnings. That's not right, and I think you're being instructed by one person in your MP group to act that way. Because of the public and the citizens, because there was a really big noise, I must congratulate Mr. Zivanovic for talking with such a concentration about these important problems of his city's citizens and the Mačvanski district. I must say, for the sake of the citizens, that man spoke of the destroyed economy during the authorities of DS and DOS, Dusan Petrovic, as president of the Sabac municipality, in taking those 10% for jobs and for all that is happening. Master Zivanovic, who will soon be doctorate and who has a high professional calling, lives in Jelenca near Šapco. He said that every morning several times before he came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (and now at some point of the night to return), he got up at 4:30, 5.00 at the latest, doing everything he had on his big estate. He is known as a good host and as a man who deals in agriculture, except for being a scientist and who is more called an honorary MP in the Republic Assembly. Therefore, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I ask you to react next time, because from October 5th, when only 23 Serbian radicals were here, including Master Zivanovic, to this day his remarks and his criticism of the authorities, as well as all criticisms of Serbian radicals, were justified, justified. At least he is known as a man who is professionally and seriously preparing for every debate, so he wanted to inform citizens about his participation today at the Privatisation Committee session. After all, the fact is that as an active participant in the work of this Parliament and as a member of the board for years, he had insight into the fact that over a thousand companies were sold into depravity, and unfortunately, millions of workers were out of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9966	Mrs Lovrin-Gavrilovica, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9967	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Both Mr. Master Zivanovic and Ms. Natasa Jovanovic have harshly violated the Rules of Procedure by giving the truth about the state of the economy in Sapac. Namely, the Democratic Party has been in Shapco's power since 2000. The budget for 2001 was 250 million, today the 2008 budget is over two billion. If we take into account the fact that the budget, among other things, is full and taxed on employee earnings, then in any case we cannot conclude that there is a failure of economy in Šapco. So I'm asking you one more time not to be false. After all, the citizens of Sapac and Serbia are very well-recognized by who is telling the truth and who is not. It also points to the fact that DS won 33 mandates this year from a total of 35 to form power in the Sabac municipality in the local elections. Therefore, the citizens of the Sabac municipality, or the city, know very well who is telling the truth and who is not. Please, once again, do not tell lies for this congregation speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9968	Mr. Zivanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9969	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of the Sabacan municipality can see for themselves what the lady was saying. I must tell you, as far as all affairs are concerned, whether the elections or anywhere in public enterprises are concerned, the lady in question is involved with her sister. So I'm not going to talk about her, but I'm going to talk about what's going on today or, like she said, about the successful economy of the Sabbath community. I have to tell you, over 25,000 are unemployed. What's most important is I'd ask her to tell me which companies and which businesses today at Capco are functioning. It doesn't work. For what? Because the biggest giant, the Zorca chemical industry in Šapco is shut down as well. It is, in fact, the work of Lovrinka, Dusan Petrovic. This is what those who rule the Sabbath community today can be commended for. What she's saying isn't true, 35:34 was. How do they remain in power in the Sabbath community today? If it hadn't been for six SRS traitors, they wouldn't be in power at all today in the Sabbath municipality. What I must say further, know that many affairs are present in the Sabbath community, we will surely reveal them, and the lady, her sister, and those who rule today, are involved in these malfeasances.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9970	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Riza Halimi, MP, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, this last amendment I will try to explain as the first, since I have failed the previous three. On the proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, I tabled five amendments, asking that Bujanovac have a criminal court and that the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac together have a court and a basic public prosecutor's office. Since I have already explained the justification for the request that Bujanovac has a criminal court, I will now try to do so for the basic public prosecutor's office, which, as well as the basic court, should, by all relevant criteria, be together for these two municipalities, if we define ourselves as a new network of courts and public prosecutors. Otherwise, I think that, with little corrections, there should have been a network of basic courts and public prosecutors. The municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, based on statistics, have about 80,000 inhabitants. This number of inhabitants does not include 25,000 people from this area who stay in other countries for over a year, who have immovable property in the territory of these municipalities, and therefore have certain relations with judicial authorities. With a total population of 105,000, these two municipalities have about the same population as most of the areas for which basic courts and general public prosecutors are provided. Also, the number of cases being processed in the existing municipal public prosecutors and municipal courts in Bujanovac and Presevo is an additional criterion that would justify a common basic court and a basic public prosecutor's office. In 2007 8,974 cases were received in both municipal courts, and 5,638 cases were transferred from the previous year. In 2007, 7,842 cases were resolved, which means 6,770 cases were transferred in 2008. These data clearly show that there is a trend in the growth of the number of cases, due to increased traffic in Corridor 10, but also on the master roads to these two border municipalities, where two border crossings with Macedonia and two customs units to Kosovo operate. There are already enough facts to justify the request made in this amendment that requires the establishment of a basic public prosecutor's office, while the previous amendments asked for the establishment of a basic court for the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac together. I find it unsustainable to propose a new network of basic public prosecutors and primary courts, as it only provides for six public prosecutors and six municipal courts to form one basic public prosecutor's office and one basic court. The proposed centralisation is, above all, jeopardising the main objective of this reform of the judicial system, and this should certainly be to increase the efficiency and objectivity of the work of courts and public prosecutors. Again, I would have to notice that it is unclear how I imagine that a new network of judicial authorities will allow for greater objectivity by avoiding the influence of the local environment, as explained in the reasoning of the bill. The question arises, why is the influence of the local environment given in a negative context? How can this influence of citizens in local communities and municipalities and the influence of their legitimate structures and representatives be declared harmful so that it is a reason for such huge changes, for which we are obviously not prepared? I think that, back in 1991, an earlier revision of this problem was changed, at which time local communities were able to influence local communities through municipalities that were then appointed or appointed by the presidents of the courts. There's been no such practice in the last 17 years. In the light of the law on the seats of courts and public prosecutors under the influence of the local environment given in a negative context, various illegal influences that come from powerful individuals should be taken into account, for which the common denominator would be corruption that is increasingly jeopardising not only the judiciary but also all other state and social structures. However, it is quite certain that the proposed strict centralisation of the judicial system will not contribute at all to the fight against corruption, even the effect will be quite the other way around. This means that the district centres, where all the structures of the judicial authorities are now concentrated, will become sites of even more intense corruption for which in smaller municipal areas, where citizens are mostly mutually known, still have fewer opportunities. I'm saying this based on the negative practice of other state authorities that have been centralised in a similar way. It is absolutely certain that an increase in the efficiency and objectivity of judicial authorities should be sought in the solutions already provided for in the proposals for other laws in the field of justice, which we have foreseen through the proposed amendments. I believe that it is possible in this way to achieve greater objectivity and seriousness in the work of the judicial authorities, which would end the practice so far which is rarely, unfortunately, present in their work, especially in the Presevo municipality. The municipal court's solutions in Presevo and the Vranj District Court have been difficult to damage the general interest of citizens, which proves that there is absolutely no impact on organised structures of the local environment, but that does not mean that there is no political influence by the centre of political power, of course from higher levels. We had a typical example of this type of influence in Presevo in 2005, when a whole one-year detention case was held in connection with an unlawfully resolved head of the municipal administration. Then, due to the intentional obstruction of the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the District Court, a vacuum has been created in local self-government and a major change in local self-government management has been made. These days, the municipal court's solutions in Presevo, the Vranj District Court, threatens to block the work of local self-government by deciding that the Presevo municipality should be rewarded by the Islamic religious community at 265,000 euros plus the amount of interest and court costs, and because of the nationalisation of a 171 square metre catastrian plot back in 1959. Instead of these authorities telling the Islamic religious community to use its rights, to demand compensation from the state for the seized property, through the Reimbursement Act, they decided to burden the municipal budget. They decided to block the municipal self-government and all its local institutions for a long time, when this solution would be implemented in practice. We had a similar procedure, that there would be some equality, and with the Orthodox Church, whose jury account had already been transferred from the municipal budget to three million dinars because of errors made by municipal authorities in the one-party system in 1991 when without written agreement it began to dig up the foundations for the water tank. Since this tank was later built at another location, it would be logical to force the municipalities to return some 150 square meters of land to its original state, not to punish the municipal budget in this way. However, that this practice is not a random speech and a large number of judicial solutions for compensation of landowners used to expand local roads, ranging from 20 to 30 euros per square metre, about three times more expensive than the Republic Roads Directorate pays to the owner of the land for the needs of the highway and the border crossing. Where does that make sense? It turns out that the most underdeveloped municipality in the country has a bigger budget than the state itself, and then it should, in some ways, be obliged to pay three times the amount for exploited or seized land. This case-law actually speaks of the present attitude of all social structures towards local self-government in the municipality with the majority Albanian population. The 2001 government programme envisioned that this situation should change and allow for the proportion of Albanians to be included in the political and state system of the Republic of Serbia. Of course there were some initial results here on the plan, especially in the local police department, something we started in the Presevo municipal court, but soon afterwards it stopped. Instead of allowing half of the municipality's employees in the municipal court to be made possible in the municipality with 90% of Albanians, we have a situation that out of 47 municipal court employees currently have only 10 employees with a permanent working relationship in Presevo. In Bujanovac it is even more drastic, out of 50 employees only five have a permanent working relationship. However, it is a very indicative practice that has been taking place over the past two years, which makes it clear that this and the previous government was not interested in allowing the Albanian to become proportionately involved in judicial authorities. Namely, in a situation where there are only four Albanian judges in both courts, when there is only one Albanian from four professional associates and, in addition, in Presevo, both professional associates are Serbian nationalities, the question arises: what is the plan of judicial authorities or state institutions to allow, in due course, at least to be proportionate to the representation of Albanians in judicial authorities and in general in the judiciary? So you can't see that kind of commitment right now. Furthermore, as far as the prosecution is concerned, the situation is even more drastic: there is only one Albanian in Bujanovac of nine employees. So in principle, I have already said, how are we going to implement the Law on Official Use of Language if this merger goes, if in Presevo, where are currently of the six judges of the three Albanians, bilingualism cannot be implemented? How are we going to imagine this bilingualism if we move to the entire county now, so of the 40 judges, we have four Albanian judges? How, then, will the new version allow the constitutional and legal principle that minority language can be used in court proceedings? So, there is no such thing so far, and with these measures, we are closing down the possibility that this constitutional and legal right that all minorities have, in this case, Albanians in Presevo and Bujanovac, will apply for a further period. So I think that in this situation, as far as the networks are concerned, it is best for the amendments to improve the bill, if possible; if not, then it is best to withdraw and give time to really think clearly about this very important and sensitive problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9972	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic, who wants to speak to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9973	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, it is rare for more amendments to be adopted on this right hand side. I was fortunate to have accepted three amendments to this bill, including an amendment to Article 3, so I am withdrawing the amendment to Article 10 because it does not comply with the amendment adopted, and the proposed solution meets the needs of more prosecutors in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9974	Thank you, Mr. Milentievich. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Judita Popovic wants a word. Here you go, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9975	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, I know that you are already very tired and that this debate on amendments to the draft law on the network of courts is taking a very long time. However, I only have a few sentences to define the whole problem that we discussed both in principle and in particular. specifically on 122 amendments. Our amendment that we consistently submitted to the government has consistently refused, with an explanation as it is, not to quote. But I always get one question - for what reason? I would like to ask one question to the MPs about the adoption of the Constitution by listening to the days of the amendment's arguments. Do the parties involved in the adoption of the Constitution, which therefore supported the 2006 Constitution, have the moral right to criticise the law on the agenda? And that is why: first of all, for the reasons that we know how this Constitution was brought in, the Constitution was brought in without a valid public debate, and under two, it has gone beyond the lack of a referendum procedure, again in connection with the adoption of this Constitution. So, if all of this is considered, then the question really is whether we can, or whether these parties that have adopted such a constitution can criticise the law based on the 2006 Constitution? However, we can all ask certain questions to the government regarding the proposal for this law. First of all, is there a reform society in the mood to pass reform laws in the judiciary? So is our society ready and able to reform it, especially this law? Is there a political and civilization will for law enforcement? Do we, as a society, want to implement this law on the network of courts? Is there a stable political authority that enjoys the trust of most citizens? In order for this law to be implemented, there must be some stable political authority, therefore, one majority of citizens who are able and willing to implement the law. Do we have that stability? Is there the willingness and ability of the authorities to implement reforms? Is that power, which should represent most, capable and able to implement these reforms? Is there a consensus of judicial function holders for this reform? When it comes to the holders of judicial functions, that could include prosecutors and judges and lawyers; are they ready, is there a consensus for a thorough reform of the judiciary? Are there the abilities of the ministry responsible to organise this reform? Is the Ministry ready and organisationally able to implement this serious and complicated reform? So I'm talking about purely technical conditions, technical issues. Are they qualified for something like that? If all these questions are asked, and first of all, if there is a constitutional framework, therefore, whether there is legitimacy that enables the adoption and adoption of such a reform law, then I don't know what kind of answer would be at the end. Why do I insist on this legitimacy? It was precisely because the 2006 Constitution strongly insisted on a constitutional continuity. If it insists on this constitutional continuity, then what happens to the principle of retroactivity, because in this case we introduce a retroactivity that is contrary to Article 197 paragraph 2. The Constitution, which is explicit when this principle of retroactivity can be applied. But this constitutional continuity, in fact, calls into question this continuity, which enables it, contrary to the admission of the then R & D into the United Nations in 2000, when there was a state discontinuity. Then what's going on? If by this set of new laws we allow re-election of judges, so one general choice, re-election, call it whatever you want, what do we do? We retroactively apply this law to an already existing state. These judges who are now on trial for one choice, which passed in 1991 or 1992, for example. So, what's going on here? We are introducing the principle of retroactiveness, and here we have insisted on constitutional continuity, so that we come to one conflict throughout this process of passing and adopting laws. Therefore, the conclusion would be that imposed solutions always remain merely artificially incapable of coming to life. Because if we don't have a positive response from the government to the questions we just asked, then we have a solution to this law. The solutions in place are merely artificial and will not produce results. I would especially underline that we cannot build a legal state by formal mechanisms based on an illegal constitutional order. I tried to explain to you why I consider this constitutional order, so this Constitution of 2006, to be a big question. There are two reasons: one is that there was no public debate in the adoption of the Constitution; another is this referendum, which we can really talk about. Therefore, if we have such a constitution and build on that Constitution and bring new judicial laws, what result can we expect after all?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9976	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9977	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I think that at least sometimes you should react when LDP MPs so boldly attack the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the referendum on which this Constitution was brought because it is your duty to protect the dignity of the National Assembly and the MPs elected after the adoption of the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You may, Mrs Popovic, like it or not like this Constitution, but it exists, was brought in by a referendum, where you could see that for the first time in a place where the vote appeared and His Holiness Patriarch Serbian Mr. Pavle. I recognise the lack of public debate, but what you're saying about a referendum in some twisted form, which should mean that we should all question the results of the referendum because you of the LDP say so, this is not the attitude of the MP to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and this is not the attitude of one who demands to be respected, who, based on that constitution and the law of the elected one, has therefore recognised the Constitution, thus defining his position towards the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there are those who do not listen to what is said, but look who is speaking. But it's usually people who can't tell what's important and what's not. So, I'm talking about a group of MPs being rudely insulting the Constitution of their country questioning their existence on the principles of that Constitution. So please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, do not talk about recipes with your colleague whenever one of us shows up at a pay phone or when someone you cannot object to shows up. Please conduct the session in the manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, that those who interfere with the atmosphere, who after moving when someone throws them as they speak, be warned. It doesn't mean anything to me, and it doesn't bother me, just because there's music-educated people around here who might be able to turn this into some kind of musical form, so that at least it's fun, and like this, you're not in rhythm, you don't start and you end up at the same time. The thing I'm talking about is very serious. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the MP has the right to say whatever he wants for this speaker, he cannot be punished for it. I am not asking for any punishment for Mrs Popovic, it is her right to say what she thinks, but to attack the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by bringing into doubt the way it was brought in, meaning false, to speak of the constitution being faked, it is neither like a national MP, especially when you involve it in the retroactiveness of judges by choice, although judges judge by law rather than by choice. Well... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Once again, because of the dignity of the Assembly, it doesn't mean much to me, I belong to a group of politicians, a group of citizens who actively participated in the adoption of the Constitution. I'm not defending him because I was there for him, but I'm defending him because the Better Constitution didn't show up and because none of the critics dared to engage in the procedure for his change. Thank you. (For the entire duration of the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9978	Mr. Nikolic, the MP has the right to verbal and political freedom. If I were to comment on every MP's statement, then I would very much compromise the efficiency of Parliament's work and you know it well. In addition, there was no call for the collapse of the constitutional order, which would certainly have to cause my reaction. It's the Rules of Procedure again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9979	I have indeed heard for the first time that you allow certain things to prevent you from compromising the effectiveness of the work of the National Assembly. Here, you as a respected university professor, I don't mean to call it a doctor, but as a man who's very educated, just tell me that by protecting the dignity of the National Assembly, you would compromise the efficiency of Parliament's work. Does this mean that there is some measure, some step that you do not want to cross, that you will allow much to be effective in Parliament's work? I warn you, according to the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly did not give you the right to lead the Assembly by thinking at a session on efficiency but on dignity, on the integrity of the MPs, on respect for the Rules of Procedure, and only after that, when all the conditions are met, that you also care for efficiency. Otherwise, I have noticed that you are ready for many moves to ensure some efficiency in parliament. I see that you are satisfied today and that the efficiency of parliament has not been compromised. The fact that you've compromised some people who'll be ashamed of what they've been saying for the past month doesn't mean anything to you. You are the ruling coalition that survives. I don't say thanks to who, but they're already answering themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9980	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9981	Article 104. No matter how anyone responds to statements and goes out for the pay phone of certain MPs, I must agree with the previous speaker. It is one thing to criticise the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia; it can seem every day, every day someone can criticise the provisions of that constitution, incompetence, possibly, those provisions, something that is not well written or can advocate the amendment of the Constitution. That's legitimate. Maybe even in some situations it's socially desirable. But what is not good when it is heard, it is an uninterrupted expression of suspicion of a legitimate and legal end to the procedure of adopting an act such as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's not good. This cannot be done, or can be done, but it is certainly not expected from someone who has been elected as a national representative in this home. This doubt could be expressed once at a certain time, in an appropriate manner, and after that all discussions would cease. It seems to me like some people aren't enough with all the trouble that's on us and what we've got, but I guess there's something else to add to that. As if all that is happening to us today and all these misunderstandings between us that exist about big things are not enough pain for all of us living in Serbia, but I guess now we should add something else to that, so that the circus is complete. I have nothing against it and against freedom of speech. I'm saying, you can say this. I don't think I'm going to tell the president of the National Assembly that she did something wrong when she didn't warn Judith Popovic about this. I don't think so. I probably wouldn't have warned her either. I called on Article 104, believing that what Mrs. Judita Popovic said hurt me. I mean not only myself, but I mean those we represent here, Serbian citizens; if no one else, at least the part that voted in the referendum for this constitution, and believe me, everyone knows that, it's not a small number of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9982	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jadranko Vukovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, and then you, Mrs. Judith.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. Simply, I had to react and apologize for interrupting this debate, all day long this parliamentary group or group of citizens, led by Mr Nikolic, throwing to colleagues - how much money did you receive to work today by the Assembly? It's just amazing. Yesterday we held a debate on the Rules of Procedure over Kosovo and Metohija, we talked about Eulex, but isn't it normal for parliament to work? He collapsed a few days ago on the G17, apparently, that's where the situation calmed down. Now probably... I don't know how many of you there are, ma'am, you're not in power, from the LDP. So, Ms. Slavica, I'm asking you, I don't know if you know what this is about, if Mr. Nikolic can say about this pay phone that we're working on here, to see who got what he got. So, colleagues pass by, here they are, and your Gojko Radic – why don't you boycott, how much money did you receive? Tell me about this pay phone who received what he received. I really don't know what this is about, so I reacted. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9984	First Mrs. Judita Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9985	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, thank God, there is still freedom of opinion and freedom of speech in Serbia. So we need to figure out some things; on the one hand, we have these freedoms, and on the other hand we have respect for the law and the Constitution. So I expressed my opinion in a free speech about this speaker. That's one thing. On the other hand, as a citizen of this country, I respect the laws and respect the Constitution that is currently in force, so the 2006 Constitution. Not only do I respect him as a citizen, he respects the LDP; we address the Constitutional Court when we ask that the constitutionality of certain laws, decisions, etc. So if we can figure these two things out, then everything becomes simple. Everyone has the right to be angry, to be shot, hurt, and offended by the words spoken for this congregation speaker. If anyone thinks that I personally offended him by saying about this congregation speaker, well, I apologize, I'm really sorry that I'm not used to it, and I have no intention of insulting anyone when I'm talking about this pay phone. So, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9986	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic, you have your word. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9987	I am not at all hurt or offended by your public suspicion that the referendum had been stolen; I had to do so on behalf of those citizens who went to the referendum and decided to donate the Constitution to Serbia. So, you offended them, you apologize to them if you intend to apologize; you did not, I know not how much the party in which I was then in the adoption of this Constitution and I know that without that party that constitution would not have been brought. As for the money, I didn't say you got the money. You heard it from someone else. I just saw less coming to me from America and from England, and I asked where was that money I got in the tranches, and they said, we have to take away the ones we agreed with last night.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-10-0.u9988	The government has submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, I ask if the proposing's representative, Minister Malovic wants a word? No, I don't. ) She'll give the closing statement probably tomorrow when we finish the set of laws she's here for. Once again, truly grateful for her endurance and for the very good cooperation we have. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. I thank you for your cooperation, gentlemen. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. According to official records, 121 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 98 MPs are present in the hall, that there are more than one third of the MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for today's session to be attended by Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice, as well as Mr. Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Živana Bogotincevic, adviser to the finance minister. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Infringements (single) You have received an amendment submitted by the Government under the bill of law. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. But before that, Mr Milentijevic reported to the Rules of Procedure.
