ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4748	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have reported for the violation of Rule 104 of this Rules of Procedure, and I believe that the Rules of Procedure have been injured by the response we received from Minister Skundric, Minister of Energy, which has been forwarded to all Members of the previous days. The fact that we waited for him for 40 days and clearly through the answer is why we waited so long, because no key answer to the questions that were asked was given. We are witnesses, through the documentation we have obtained these days, that a terrible abuse has been made according to the interests of the state of Serbia, and that is to say, in terms of gas distribution, when it comes to an oil-gas agreement, when it comes to an agreement with Jugorosgas, which is an intermediary in gas purchase. No country in the environment has an intermediary with a 5% commission. No country in the environment has come into this situation to raise the gas 60%, and that at that price gas is a calculated commission, that at that price gas is calculated service of the old debt. We need to ask more questions to Minister Skundric, i.e. Minister Skundric, has to give us answers to the question that the person who is currently his assistant deserved to be his assistant, the person who was in the previous government and the person who was the director of Energogas, the person who failed to use the right to prevent buying, and the government who kept quiet and who allowed the Russian partner to own 75% of the company that imports and directly buys gas from the Russians and then sells it to the state of Serbia. We have to ask who issued the licenses to Jugorosgas that we received in response to Minister Skundric? Who had the courage and the courage to issue licenses to a company that owns 75% of Russian capital, or Russian giant Gazprom, and to buy gas through that company and to buy about $20-30 million a year, 40 is, however, pouring into the company's account. We received in response from Minister Skundric that the company owns the license, but the key question is who issued the company's license to buy gas on behalf of Serbia? The story that the Russians demanded, in response, that the Russians sought, the Russian side, to introduce a mediator, was not true. We're asking for proof of something like that. These are so big issues, citizens in Serbia depend on this. So 60% jumped the gas, that's a terrible burden for the citizens. It's a calculated commission, and it's a calculated service of old debt. Please answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4749	The government will be forwarded to this new issue of yours again. Mr. Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4750	Good afternoon. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 27 and Articles 225 and 226. Madam Chairman, we, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, have the right to ask questions to the Government and, of course, we have the right to expect an answer from the Government. But even though it doesn't say it strictly anywhere, it is understood that the answer we get has to be true. In response, Mr Skundric informed us all MPs that the government of the Republic of Serbia, namely his ministry, had never received an offer to buy out a 25% Serbian part of the company Jugorosgas. The LDP's Banal Research found that it was not true. Now I'd like to give some information that I think is very important to all the MPs. Why does the LDP insist on this? In fact, Jugorosgas is a company that has the exclusive right to import and distribute gas in the Republic of Serbia. It used this right in a certain way by not allowing gas to be purchased at a more favourable price, so that Serbia today buys gas from Russia, or from Gazprom at a market price, which is currently over $500. That is the basic reason, as Minister Skundric informed us, of the 60 per cent gas collection. Although we had a very good international contract between Serbia and Russia from 96, the contract envisions establishing a joint venture owned by 50% of Serbia, 50% of Russia's property. Unhappiness, negligence or intent, the government of Vojislav Kostunica missed a deadline within which we could buy 25% of our share and thus remain equal owners of the company. Thus, Serbia lost its ability to influence gas supply and distribution, and thus the price of gas. In fact, on 13 May 2005, the Board of Directors of NIS concluded that it was interested in buying a 25% stake in the company. By law and by international agreement, he had the right to make purchases, but the government was gone, until the deadline for the right of the purchase obstacle expired. This leaves over 75% of the company's ownership to Russia's Gazprom, so the one who sells gas to us, whose interest it is to sell us at a higher price, is normal, decides on distribution, how it buys, and in every way it affects the price.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4751	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4752	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, we think this is a very important issue and that, in fact, the enormous accumulation of gas is nothing more than the first consequence of a terribly irresponsible policy being conducted in this country for several years. Mr. Minister, of course you can type your messages, most of you can listen to us, it will be another year, two or three, but sooner or later most of this House will discuss the energy agreement that this country has concluded with the Russian Federation, not on behalf of the public interest of the citizens, which this Parliament should take into account, but on behalf of the failed policy that has been maintained in life by sacrificing this very public interest for the political support it has received. Mr Dacic, in 96, the government led by your party at the time, concluded an energy agreement with the Russian Federation, much more quality, much better, much more useful, much more functional for the interests of the country than the energy agreement that parliament ratified a month ago. No one answered the question why Serbia has ratified the second energy agreement, when there is a first, and is yet to answer the question why we agree in that second agreement on conditions that are worse than the conditions that existed in the first. Now we pay the first price of such a political mistake. The second and third can be avoided if a serious political debate takes place first and foremost. You are a police minister, but you are also Deputy Prime Minister and First Deputy Prime Minister, and the president of one of the ruling coalition's parties. This is a political issue for us. We're not asking you to come out of here with handcuffs and start arresting in Belgrade, but we're asking you to answer in a clear way how the government will react effectively, not after 40 or 50 days, to what we're talking about. During the debate on the energy agreement here, we asked Minister Skundric one question. We got the answer to that question after 40 days. That's the question we're talking about today. Who made decisions that are so harshly endangering the public interest? Imagine the situation where you and I form one company. You are protecting the interest of the Russian Federation, and I am protecting the interest of the citizens of Serbia. At one point, without any logical explanation, I sacrifice the interest of the citizens of Serbia by leaving you 50% of that interest and putting, practically, a company that should take care of both of your interests under your control. It was done in 2005. The minister told us the Ministry has no record of it. We own the record from the UO NIS session. (President: Time. ) Please give me another minute, since it is a large topic, that we do not report five times in the Rules of Procedure. We have this record that now puts us in a position not to know, in fact, whether the minister participates in this Serbian fraud or is hidden from it. That's a serious question. Four million dollars has sold the interest of Serbian citizens in a company that will only take 40m dollars through dividends this year. The dividends are not the only damage, much greater damage is the fact that the company has done nothing to prevent and protect Serbia from the damage followed by the chaos on the energy market. If we'd deposited gas in Banatski Dvor, when the price of 1,000 cubic metres was $200, we'd be wasting that gas now. Why wasn't that done? Because it's bigger money when you charge 5% to $550 than 5% to $200. Who runs the company that employs seven people, and how did it appear as an intermediary in these affairs, and is previously remote from the intervention of the government of Zoran Djindjic? It's not true what they say in the last two or three days, paid analysts in panic, who explain that the Russians do so. They may have done so in the period of sanctions, when our state couldn't buy it on the free market, but from 2001 to 2004, our country was supplying itself on the free market without any intervention. Here's where we are now. Is it an economic necessity for gas to collect 60%? It probably is. We know how much it costs a thousand cc's of gas on the market. Is it possible to act preventively? It could've worked and it could've happened now. The first measure is - outside the middleman, 5% lower price; the second measure is the one proposed by the government - prolonged payment over a period of 12 months; the third measure - let the state tighten the belt, let the directors who come here before us, with salaries of 300, 400 and 500 thousand, which are a state secret, tighten the belt. Let them not make receptions at the moment when the Industry Committee is in session, so here you look at me and I look at you, because we are responsible to the citizens, and they don't care, they're serving one authority, they're serving another government, they're going to call on a Russian partner, they're going to rely on rules that we can't change. It can't do that anymore. I don't want to tell you anything about the gas mob. It seems to me like stories from previous years, but from you, as Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, right now, the most important representative of the executive government, we're asking for an emergency response. Today, the Prime Minister will come up with measures to respond to a financial crisis that shakes the world and flows across borders into our country. We asked for it two weeks ago. It'd be better if it was done faster. Okay, if it's even partly the result of our initiative, it's good. Consider this our desire to help you solve the chaos that has been inherited. (President: Time. This is amazing, that such a thing is allowed and that no one responds to such a thing. We can't get over it and we can't keep quiet about it. We will return to a normal debate on these laws, but please come out here, not to the press after your party meeting, and say that you will really do everything to remove any suspicion from the government, which must not continue the energy policy that the previous governments have led. If that rule was valid during the Milosevic government period, the governments of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic were interrupted to return to that energy life through the government of Vojislav Kostunica and, unfortunately, your government respects it. Out the middleman and responsibility for those who gambled public interest leaving 50% of the Serbian stake to the Russian side.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4753	Mr. Buha, also by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must open a debate over the latest prices directed by our government. The government has presented itself as a socially responsible pro-European government, and the government's latest activities suggest it is neither socially responsible nor pro-European-oriented. Why? Gas-gathering and 60% increase in any case is alarming. Citizens can't pay this price. On the Committee on Industry, we received some instructions on the costs of the gas price structure. However, all the information the Committee was to obtain has not been obtained. We requested further intervention from the Ministry to provide all data on direct or indirect costs charged by the entire natural gas along with JP "Srbigas". She'll probably be gathered, summed up as she's shown in these indicators. But not all costs that are built into the price of gas can be accepted. It cannot be shown in the price of gas that Serbia and Serbia's citizens have not paid, so we will now burden citizens through this increased price of gas, and those who paid, who paid neatly. Those who haven't paid, there are social cases that can't pay, they won't pay in this situation this high price of gas. So, we're going to damage the orderly payers, the citizens who are orderly atone for the government's obligations. When we talk about the gas price structure, we must say that the price certainly includes high receptions of the leaders, not only of the leaders, but of all those who work in the gas distribution sector, by JP "Srbigas", via local distributors. That's where the profits are above average. This is where we got information about the salaries for the individual directors. They're not just executives. We also need to include a management structure in public enterprises, including boards of directors, supervisory boards, as well as the overall working structure in these companies. Then we'll see where our reserves are. Reduce, it's a government obligation. I therefore advocate, I apologize, another sentence, that the Government, by emergency procedure, is reviewing the actual costs, the actual structure of the price of natural gas, to come out here as prime minister, to address the public, in the Serbian Parliament, and to say why there has been such an increase, where reserves are possible and to create a government programme of measures to overcome the situation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4755	National MP Mr. Andric, then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4756	Article 225 again. Just now I'm going to show from this pay phone some of the documents, at this point four, although we have over 100, and during today we're going to copy them and share them with the heads of Parliament, the president of the Committee, of course to Mr. Minister and President of the Assembly. The first is the decision by the Management Board of the Serbia Oil Company since 13 May, which decides that NIS is interested in buying 25% of Yugoslavia. Next, believe it or not, the Jugorosgas Action Society Assembly says it has accepted the information and is agreed that NIS buys 25%. It's June 7th, 2005. The only thing missing, since NIS is a public enterprise, is the consent of the Serbian government. There's no such thing as consent. The government will keep quiet until the deadline is up. For the first time only on January 11, 2006, seven months after NIS expressed its desire to buy 25% of Jugorosgas, when the deadline has already expired and when Gazprom itself appeared, the government, or the cabinet of Mr Labus, concludes to accept a decision on the majority ownership of Gazprom in Jugorosgas, and the Jugorosgas Assembly in Belgrade will be held, etc. He's still completely ignoring the domestic company's request. The cabinet of Miroljub Labus. To all this, Minister Skundric's response that the ministry did not know there was a desire for NIS to buy a portion of Jugorosgas. In addition to Serbia being placed in the worst position possible, which is now seen by this gas price collection, at least ten laws have been broken, among other things the Law on Government, the Law on Public Enterprises, and then there was no tender, no procedure. So, as Mr. Jovanovic said before me, Jugorosgas annually, at this price, has a profit of $40m. So 25% was sold for about five million dollars, something lower. For one year of business, investment was justified. Well, if a tender had been called, I'm sure 10,000 would be interested in buying those shares. For this someone must answer, answer politically, because of the situation in which Serbia is present today, and answer criminally, because this is all possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4757	Thank you. Mr. Marash, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4758	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, again Article 104, the dignity of the Assembly. In a response that Minister Skundric sent to my question on October 16th, one great lie was raised, we are asking to see who gave false information to Minister Skundric and who misinformed him. So, Mr. Skundric, the energy minister, said that "as far as the part of the issue concerning the Ministry of Mining and Energy has not responded to the NIS' request to buy 25% of the ownership of Jugorosgas from Progressgastreying, we point out that the Ministry of Mining and Energy has never delivered a decision by the NIS to give the government consent under the Law on Public Enterprises" etc. A moment ago Mr Andric said, we will deliver this document, as he said, to all the heads of the parliamentary groups. So, NIS, board of directors, 13 June 2005 informs the government that he's interested in buying 25%. It's arrived at the Ministry of Energy. So all responsibility lies with the ministry and the government why they did not decide to protect Serbia's interests. I expect you, Mr. Dacic, as Deputy Prime Minister, to do everything you can to get out here and say what we have asked you as a question that you, as one of the most responsible in this country, are going to do everything possible to examine this. We cannot allow citizens to bear the cost of an irresponsible policy, for the second time to pay the debt that exists, for citizens to pay the 5% commission charged by Jugorosgas. It's terribly important to know, and we have to keep saying that someone's irresponsible policy, whether or not out of interest, has led to it. We have a document, when Russia, or the Turkish firm, informs and holds a meeting in 15.9.2005 with two ministers, Velimir Ilic and Radomer Naumov, the Central EU company, which is part of Gazprom Moscow, whose President Ali Shen, is holding talks with the two ministers and only then refer to the intention to directly buy Jugorosgas, which is 25%. All the time, silence from the government. After that, only in January reacts where the company is found to have bought 25% of the Yugoslavs. I repeat, for $4.8 million, how much he takes on behalf of the commission over the course of one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4759	The word has the Vice-President of the Assembly, the People's MP Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, and then Markicevic, then Mr. Buha for the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4760	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly inform the MPs and the public on this subject, without really intending to abuse the assembly's pay phone for marketing purposes, about something that I think is important for the culture and historical heritage of our people, and it is about today's opening of the 53rd Book Fair in Belgrade. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, for the first time after who knows how many decades, I really can't even remember when the last time that book was printed, this time and today, after more than 50 years, in the publication of the publishing house "Logos" from Backo Palanka will appear, as a publishing venture, I am absolutely convinced, of the years, and is very important for our people and for future generations -- the book of Sima Milutinović Sarajlia "Serbian", as well as the collected works of Milica Stojadinović-Serbian. In this context, I would like to tell you that, although imprisoned for six years in the dungeon of The Hague Kazamat, one of the members of the editorial council for these two books and for the summed works of Milica Stojadinović-Serbian, is Professor Vojislav Seselj. I don't need to remind you that since he's been in The Hague, he's written 19 books in SRS publishing. However, this is now a project he specifically insisted on. Indeed, with all the help and above all the role of her associates, especially colleagues, Milorad Milcic, from Novi Sad, this book saw the light of day, that is, these books that will appear today. Indeed, I recommend to the entire Serbian public and to you people's MPs that when you visit, and I believe that in these six days, you will certainly take these books, because they will mean to you and to your children, and to your grandchildren and future generations who will inherit everything you leave behind, and what you have as a truly historic treasure of the Serbian people. Thank you. I'm sorry, Mrs. Dejanovic, I really had to answer, because I think something like this is a long-prepared project and very important for all of us today, finally in front of the reader's audience, to the joy of all of us, and above all Dr. Seselj, our president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4761	National MP Mr Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4762	Madam Vice President, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, I am using my right to Article 226, because I need some notices that are important to my function. Of course, the theme is gas. In order not to let down citizens, at least some MPs, I am talking first of all about citizens of the city of Cacca, of which I am buried with telegrams and letters, so that we don't turn around the gas this rasomonyad into politicizing to some high political issues, to be clear, what was on the Committee on Industry, I have to tell all the citizens who are heating up on the gas, that the media didn't even transfer 5% of what was on that Committee on Industry. There have been very constructive stories both by the MPs and by Mr Skundric, the energy minister. So, I want to inform you, since unfortunately the media didn't do it, because it was an attractive topic about the government's alleged fall and everyone's gone. It is not true that the cubic gas enters Serbia with 34.01. It is not true that Serbiaagas is also at a cost of loss. I'll just give you one parameter. Three years ago, when most of the citizens in Chačka were gassed, their households the price of cubic gas was 9.33 and the dollar was 76. In two and a half years, the dollar fell to 51 dinars, and the gas jumped, this previous price of this latest astronomical gathering was 23 dinars. That means that two years, if a dollar is a gas importing unit, that the gas actually should have fallen -- that's one moment I want to point out. Second, "Serbigas" as a company is not a loss. She's a big winner. Every little boss in some town who's done a gasse has between 150,000 and 200,000 salaries. I turned my attention to Mr. Minister, and I think he understood me most well-intentionedly, that the directors of public enterprises and public enterprises, so these are enterprises whose owners are all citizens, stop commanding ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, rather than the ministers in command of these public enterprises, as it did to whom it belonged in the coalition. From this price of 34.01 dinars for cubic gas there is one item, to be a little more practical and to explain to you what it is, where it says: using a network of 2.55%, and since the minister himself said that it was also a user of gas, he could see, that's what I drew attention to, like every citizen, in a gas connection contract, where it says building a secondary and primary network. So what I'm talking about, first of all, about Western Serbia, that network, that's what citizens paid for that network and I don't know why they would pay for the reuse of that network. On that committee, I said this looked like the sugar head of Milovan Glisic's parable, where some lucky chief seven, eight times carrying the head of sugar (President: Time). I'm just asking you to give me one more minute, I'm sorry. So, without this price that is now $530 and some dollars for importing thousands of cubic gas, what do the citizens expect from the government? Don't argue with the Russians, the Americans, because of that ordinary man, a citizen has nothing. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, or First Deputy, the citizens expect you to put this decision back in the first session of the government, review this decision and reduce at least four or five dinars, what we all saw there that you can do at this import price of gas. So that's what citizens expect. Otherwise, when their first accounts start to come, there's nothing to it, they no longer benefit. As for the discussion of some previous speakers, if they have evidence of what they're saying, as far as I'm concerned, I don't mind taking them out and finally seeing them. We were waiting for that Monday, but I'd like to say that in their time, when they were owners, they spoke so explicitly, let's say, of selling Sartide. That's too bad, compared to this, if the damage to these gas import contracts is hundreds of times bigger. I'm just saying that one of the ministers said that the sale contract "Sartida" no longer exists, that it's not in the government. I would like those who were vice-presidents of the government at the time and ministers to come out and finally tell the citizens the truth about the sale of Sartide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4763	Mr. Milorad Buha, then Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must be concerned about this final move by the government. But it is not only the final move of the government, but all the moves that followed after the constitution point to a very poor economic position of this government, which says to itself that the pro-European government is socially responsible. Here, I'm going to mention some disturbing data here. With the increase in natural gas prices, municipal services have also been increased. The price of utility services has been increased, total, up to 20%. Where the state, or government and local self-government controls prices for these services, we can say that the increase was up to 7% in accordance with the law, and the total increase according to statistical indicators is 6%. However, all other data worry that meat prices have increased by 35% over the last year, oil prices by 25%, retail prices by 25%, and the statistical authority tells us that the cost of living in the period from the ninth month of 2007 to 2008 has increased by 10.5%, but wages have been kept at a level during that same period, or there has been an increase of 5.5%. If we add an increase in Telecom services for a 161% subscription and an increase in impulse by 100%, it all indicates that this is a socially irresponsible government. We need to say another finding that we received at the Committee on Industry's session, which says that the prices of the input, i.e. the prices of natural gas that we get from Russia, are the most favourable. After Belarus, we belong to the order of states that have the most favourable entry price, but also the conditions of payment. I would therefore warn all MPs who deliberately speak of Russia, Russian moves concerning Serbia and the Serbian people, to take care of this because not only is this information talking about the very serious approach of the Russian state to Serbia and Serbia's economic, social and other situation, but Russia's principle policy regarding the Hague tribunal, related to Kosovo and Metohija, is also related to all other problems that we have in these areas. That is why we must truthfully and honestly say that Russia's approach is very acceptable, kind, and we must not speak false here. As for Gazprom and certain moves, we must mention it here and we must talk about it, but the details that we have received on the Committee and which we know from political and social life, we see that Russia's approach is very mild and let's not scold them in this way and put them in a position to take certain unfavourable measures towards us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4765	National MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4766	Madam President, the presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I would like to say that at this point, the government of Prime Minister Cvetkovic has actually managed in just 100 days to achieve the purchases and basic life supplies and practically all the utility services. According to Article 226, I'm looking for an explanation as to why the gas had to collect 60 percent? There's not a single reason. You could've increased it 80%, and 100%. Serbia's institution is the same as Serbia's Elektroprivreda. Why isn't the price of electricity increasing? Today in Serbia we have the social price of electricity, we do not have the market price of electricity. If it were marketable, it should be 30-40% more expensive, but serious governments never increase in transition countries the price of electricity and the price of gas as radically as they are now. This is one huge mistake, and we ask that, or this price be reconsidered, that the increase be much less. Why - so as not to suffer citizens, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, if this price has to stay, then find which is the most vulnerable population, which is the percentage, to make a social map and to sort of subsidize this abnormal price of gas. Of course, I agree as a man in the economy that Serbiagas should work profitablely, but I also agree that electricity should work profitablely, and if we don't have a market price for electricity, so we can't now in transition, at the most difficult moment for the country, that we have this kind of market price for gas. On the other hand, this government doesn't care about citizens. Prime Minister Cvetkovic deals with everything but economic matters. We wrote short information in front of the DSS, ten shorts in 100 days, so we called it, what the government hasn't done in the last 100 days. To add the last one, it is only now that you can see how important it is to have this gas-oil agreement with Russia, which, thank God, has been ratified here in the Assembly and God help us to make it work as soon as possible, how much it will allow us not to depend on whether in Hungary we will turn the tap, and how important it is that this process be fully transparent and that the state of Russia and the state of Serbia participate in it alone. I'd like to say that with what other MPs have mentioned, of course, if there are any irregularities, the DSS has always been about investigating it, there's no problem at all, I just want to say that it has absolutely nothing to do with the DSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4767	The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4768	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, although this is not a topic, as today's foreign law is on the agenda and debate in particular, let me say a few words, since I realized that I was expecting some of my reactions to what was said here. I would like to inform all the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that, if you consider that there are any elements for any crimes committed during the past period, I am absolutely at my disposal and today Mr. Canak will present to me what exists as some kind of documentation on the basis of which he wants to raise this whole issue. What I'm saying is there's no reason to suspect anyone in the MUP would be protecting anyone if he was doing anything to harm this country and this people. I want to remind, the truth is, that Serbia's general director is from the DSS and that Assistant Minister Skundric is also still from the DSS. That's why I don't think there's any reason for us to be politicizing this issue right now, especially after Mr Popovic's exposure. I'm aware that many here when they're speaking essentially think they're criticizing some that were in the past. No changes have been made in the government of the Republic of Serbia yet. I don't think this issue is a party issue, but if there is any political and party correctness, then don't let us abuse it. Did Petar Skundric not participate in what has been said in this parliament's work so far? Petar Skundric is the minister this three months. He gave answers, if you're unhappy with those answers, if there's anything to clarify, he'll clear it up. If there's any objection, if there's any complaints, evidence of a crime, a crime, we'll take and file criminal charges. There's no reason to suspect that the M.O.P., based on the information it owns or on the information you're about to provide, and the Office of Combating Organized Crime or all other types of crime on this matter, will be working in any case. I don't want to talk about this as a political matter. I think sometimes from these statements it can be understood that this issue is politicized. The question here is whether there were any crimes against the damage of this country and this people: whether the gas had accumulated unwarrantedly, whether the contracts that existed, which you were talking about, about the share of our country in this joint venture that exists, whether something was done to harm the state and whether we missed the opportunity to get part of that dividend that we would get on the basis of greater ownership, etc. These are already other political issues, and they certainly have not happened in the past 100 days of the government's work. I want to say one thing to you, whoever's at the head of the ministry, whether it's from the SAA, from the DSS, or any other party now in power or once in power, it's absolutely irrelevant if there are any elements to the crime. This will be handled and whoever is responsible will bear sanctions. So, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, if there's any information about committing crimes, there's no reason that there's any doubt that the MUP will not investigate each of these details. I expect Mr. Canak, as he announced, to hand over to our ministry this afternoon what exists as his knowledge of the gas issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4769	Thank you. Mrs. Judita Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4770	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which says that MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. First of all, one respects the dignity of the National Assembly, and the truth is that Serbian citizens are currently in a very unfavourable position as far as gas prices are concerned. The rise in gas of 60% is indeed, if we can't say it's too large, obviously the competent ministry doesn't think it's too expensive, we can say it's extremely incorrect for consumers. First of all, to consumers in Vojvodina. Vojvodina has been gassed in about 70% of households, which means 70% of households use that gas and each of these households will experience the severe consequences of the gathering. We have 20,000 connections in Zrenjanin, which means that 20,000 households will also feel the consequences. If we mention that gas is a pretty bad quality, that it has a pretty bad caloric power, that instead of 35,000 kilojoules, now that gas has a quality of 28 thousand kilojoules, that means that the gas has accumulated 30% before this collection. Citizens, above all, the Dukes, use gas at a price of 50 dinars, not at a valid price, so if we still have these 60%, look at the price. Therefore, if this is the consequence, and we assume that it is, because all that preceded this gathering is a predecessor, which is the sale of a part of a state-owned company to a foreign state-owned company, without a tender, by malicious failure of the right of purchase by a domestic company. By introducing a mediator, with a high percentage of the fee for nothing, what is it but a predecessor to this collection and then we cannot rely on the prices that are valid on the world market. You're out of the world market, you're out of the Russian state, you're out of Russian interests. Our government, our ministers, our people are responsible for us being in this situation today. So, we are not just looking for answers, answers can be given and everything can be forgotten again, what happens regularly in Serbia, that everything is completely forgotten. There is no scandal that will not be forgotten within three days. We're looking for a spell, we're asking that the responsible respond, either politically, criminally or in any other way that is foreseen by our positive regulations, but also to do something that really does not bring this gas collection back to life, which is definitely not justifiable Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4771	MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4772	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. First Vice President, so Mr. President of the ruling coalition member, don't expect us to push all of this aside and see you as the minister of police. Although you are here and as minister of police, for us these other functions are far more important. It is not the job of one party president in the opposition and MP of the opposition parliamentary group to now run around Serbia to deal with prosecution and police affairs, do we agree on that. That we're filing criminal charges now, do you know when it's done? This was done in two governments of Vojislav Kostunica, when it was pointless to expect them to work against their own interest. Expecting the government of Vojislav Kostunica to launch an investigation into the welcome of the first indictee for the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, of those who waited for him, to launch investigations against themselves. That time has passed. Although they remain in certain places, we expect this government to demonstrate a new policy, that European orientation which is why we support the government at certain times. Let's not go in now, I agree, into these party re-imposings, who's how and what you've done, but here are some facts that are devastating. Is our Assembly, when it voted on ratification of the energy agreement, the one Mr Popovic says was concluded in a transparent manner, not transparent when the prime minister of one country and the president of another country sat down and signed the agreement with us here? It is transparent when it is discussed, it is transparent when the agreement comes from the country's energy development strategy, directly opposed. It is transparent when the agreement is better than the previous one and at that time the current one, the 96-year-old government of Mirko Marjanovic, is something that is clear. We are interested in the following -- why has this parliament ratified a second energy agreement with Russia, which, by its character, is worse than the first, at that time valid and valid over the next 25 years? That's what we're interested in. It's politics, and these are all other consequences. Did four or five get their hands in the pockets of our citizens? Well, it's a little satisfaction for us to arrest those five thieves now and say, here, the thing is solved. It's not a problem solved. We're told that we're the most privileged country in business with the Russian Federation, it's not true. In other countries, the lower price of gas and more favourable treatment is, and we are the only country that has given Russia control in the energy sector, 51% of the minimum participation in a joint company that controls trade, transport, distribution and supply of Serbia with gas. We gave the oil sources, we gave the gas sources, we gave the Banatical Court, we gave everything, and in the end we got what -- the price we had and without that agreement. That's a political question for us. Whether the process of reviewing the justification of signing such an agreement with the Russian Federation will be opened to this House. It's nothing, Mr. Buha, against Russia. The same Russia agreed to an equal relationship 12 years ago, the same, in much more unfavourable conditions. Perhaps someone asked the Russian Federation to compensate for jobs that do not have exclusively commercial impediments, and then there were payments for support that was short-lived without effect and we are now paying for it, both us and our children and who knows how much so, because this agreement cannot be changed, unlike the 1996 agreement, which had the exact time limit in which it was going on, along with the fence that contracts concluded during that period would be respected until their expiry. (President: Time) Don't ask us to give you papers here now, we'll give this not as denuances but as MPs who want to inform you and familiarize you with some facts. You're right, I don't think Minister Skundric lied to us, because I don't think a serious man would let himself write something like that. As for the part of the issue that concerns that the Ministry of Energy and Mining has not responded to the NIS's request to buy 25% of the ownership of Jugorosgas from the Progressing, we point out that the NIS Management Board's decision has never been delivered to the ministry. That's what the Energy Minister, who's three months minister, wrote to us. But here's the decision of the board of directors of NIS. Delivered: under one - Ministry of Mining and Energy, under two - v.d. Director-General of NIS, under three assistant directors, four NIS gas directors and NIS energogas, the finance sector, for documentation, archives, Milos Tomic. It's been delivered. Information -- energy adviser to Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic-Milanovic, in addition to information from Tuesday's January 10th meeting in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Kostunica, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Economy -- Kostunica, Naumov, Dinkic, Bubalo. Information -- that Serbia is sacrificing its public interest and handing over 50% of its ownership to the Russian company. Now here's 5% of our commission, here's our five-fifty now, and we could have deposited it in Banatski Court when it cost two hundred. (President: Time, bring the end. I agree that we should go back to discussing this, but these are political issues, not criminal issues. Don't let us go back in time, let the police do their job, let the D.A. do their job, and this is politics. We want a political debate on this. We had a Committee on Energy, received satisfactory answers from the minister, which we could get. We know very well how much gas costs today and it's not the subject of this debate, but it's a matter of politics and going back to politics. You are here on this point at least the police minister, long before you are the first Deputy Prime Minister in the history of this country, the first Deputy Prime Minister in the history of this country, and you are head of the coalition party, the leading coalition, which has worked on an energy agreement that was better than this. It is in your interest to deal with it, and we will do everything we can to inform the public, that together with the MPs, because I am sure those who voted in favour of the agreement did not know about this at all. I don't think any colleagues from DS or G17, even from your party, knew about this. That's not what they're told. Then it would have been different. If we have to build relations with Russia, let's build as an equal and fair country, not as someone who gives up his interests because he's incapable of otherwise protecting one government's political campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4773	Does Mr. Marash still want to go by the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4774	As it's clear to us Progressives, let's try to tell the citizens of Serbia. We have one government that cannot bring us into the EU and that Serbian citizens argue with the Russian Federation. The question is, what is this government really doing? There is no question at all whether we should cooperate intensively with the Russian Federation -- yes and fully. It's our only way out right now. But if you government gentlemen think this way to present Russia to the citizens of Serbia as the country that is robbing us, then we will not get far. Mr. Dacic, you're working on several frequencies. Please join us now as Deputy Prime Minister, not as Home Secretary. I find it unworthy of my envoy's dignity to come out here and not to tell us about what's going on with the gas, but to arrest you. We're asking you, why did he pick up the gas? What's this price coming from Russia, what's our upgrade, what's our cost, is there any chance of any savings and where from right now? And what opportunity do you give to those in Serbia who want to completely exclude us from co-operation with the Russian Federation to prove their policy points in this way? If you think we can survive waiting for the EU without the Russian Federation, you're wrong. We don't need such a government. There's no government to keep people sitting in ministerial chairs, but to ask us out. We've accepted this energy agreement for you. Are these his consequences? Tell us that. How come, on the basis of just 15 days after signing that agreement, you're going into a power lock? Who in Serbia can think normally and say, no, this is not Russia's fault. Fifty percent of Serbian citizens will say -- this is Russia's fault. We've left Russia at will again and Russia will rule the country again. It is not true, the mistakes are in you, and those who gave all the raw materials to foreigners, those who gave both water and air, are now asking if we gave energy. Under conditions that suit Serbia, we have accepted the conditions that we can share with the rest of the world everything we own, to the extent that Serbia is interested, to the extent that Serbia benefits from it, to the extent that our children benefit from it. If you think we can survive with a 60% increase in prices, even if it's toothpicks, you're wrong. There are no citizens in Serbia who can accept a double-digit price increase in single-digit inflation. It's very well known -- oil and gas when they collect, the glue of the products goes after them. So please, we always count here when the Prime Minister comes to have an answer to every question. When his deputy comes, and the Constitutional Court cannot say whether you have the right to be a deputy or not, there must be an answer to every question, he's the Deputy Prime Minister. When the Home Secretary arrives, we don't ask him about energy. We're not asking you anything as president of the SPS, these questions I don't want to ask you, you're not in that position. But if you came as Deputy Prime Minister, the basic question is how is this price built within 15 days, how come we suffered losses that require a 60% increase in price? If we need to explore, let's start since 2001, see how whoever destroyed all the sectors in Serbia, including that energy. Nothing lasts for a month or two, Serbia lasts very long, and these governments now attacking each other for 7-8 years. We should wait... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm done, I'm sorry; we have to wait every time the government changes to find out what she did before, and the previous one immediately starts attacking the one that's current, and we're going round and round and round and there's no way out from that vicious circle. I'm telling you, there's a way out. If you don't have answers to these questions, we have to go to new elections. A government with only three or four MPs more than the minimum needed to function, which has so many opposing partners, which I openly doubt at least two partners want to separate us with the Russian Federation, does not deserve to lead Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4775	Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4776	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, first of all, I must draw your attention to the fact that you broke the Rules of Procedure again because you allowed this place to speak to someone who is not a MP, who is playing it on the basis of the fact that he stole the SRS's parliamentary mandate. From you, Mr. Dacic, when you called earlier, which is why I immediately answered the word, I expected you to speak either as Deputy Prime Minister or as First Vice President. It's okay that you, as Home Secretary, have some information about someone's criminal responsibility, but none of you are asking for it here. Is someone guilty, is someone going to be prosecuted, it will be done by your services, your subordinates, will inform you about it, you will inform the public when it is over and when it is time for it, and I have not noticed that one of the MPs who spoke before you asked you to explain such things. It really doesn't matter, especially to people who use gas to heat up, they don't care what political parties are responsible for, if anything like that exists. What you said-- you don't think Peter Skundric is? I don't think it's him or him before him or the one after him. The fact is, there's something going on here, and you as Home Secretary should be doing that part of your job. You're supposed to be working, but you don't have to keep us informed about something you don't know about. We expect you to know, Serbian citizens expect it, why the gas has cost 60%. When you answered, I thought that's exactly what you'd tell us or maybe cheer up the citizens of Serbia, say that the government will reconsider, maybe that price will decrease. I listened to Mr. Skundric the day before yesterday, when he said that he had almost made tears to my eyes, sorry citizens who would pay for such expensive gas, but he also regretted "Serbiagas" because they would not continue to be profitable. Last night, I'm listening to the Secretary of State of Finance again, and he says, when it's said that something went up 100%, it sounds scary, but when it's known how low the price is at the start, then the 100% is not so bad. So, Serbian citizens expect a serious response from the government of the Republic of Serbia, not to be told in October that gas accumulates, above all I am talking about those who are heating up gas, and then announcing that somewhere in February, a reduction in gas prices will be considered. No one's crazy enough to accept that kind of information. It's not just about gas, it's all about the phone, the goods of wide production. They say citizens, how can they say that inflation is like this, a regular man, the woman I meet at the store says, when I know what I buy, inflation is over 20 percent. So people know what it's all about, but people don't expect an empty story, they don't expect demagogue answers from the government. They're expecting concrete government moves. (President: Mrs. Radeta, time. I'm sorry. So, we expect you, Mr. Dacic, to say, citizens, that's that much for you, so you do whatever you want. Don't get warm, freeze or say it - the government will do it to cut the price. You're bringing people who were in some middle layer into a situation that they wouldn't have the opportunity to heat up, and you're still threatening power restrictions, if you don't give God a break to electricity. It's really scary. We expect your answer in this regard. I apologize one more time, just one more sentence. When you talk about criminal charges, about criminal responsibility, it would be nice for you to tell us who in the current government is responsible or in the former one, why we have so late verified this agreement with Gazprom, whether it has something to do with this, what the role of Mladjan Dinkic is in it, that he's been digging against that agreement all the time since he's been active.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4777	Mr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4778	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly say, otherwise I appreciate Mr. Dacic's work on Mr. Skundric. It works extremely well, but you may not have heard me, I criticized the government, headed by incompetent Prime Minister Cvetkovic, for the collection of food and utility services, etc. I just want to say briefly, it is not responsible for this gas collection of Minister Skundric, who is doing a good job, but rather the government headed by Prime Minister Cvetkovic. As for the other, here you see a slowly opening box from which slowly come, one after the other, the information, and, once again, there's a huge government mistake and this collection of 60% of gas, a huge mistake. The government could have subsidized in some way to make this collection 10-15%, but I have to say two or three facts, because of the public, because of the MPs and the citizens of Serbia. The truth is we get the best price of gas. Only Belarus has a lower price of gas than we do. We're the only country that doesn't pay the penalty to Russia if we don't withdraw the amount of gas we've been looking for. We really do have a big advantage here. What I'm trying to say is, don't go after a contract that has Jugorosgas, a company where NIS has 25%, why it's not 50%, let others deal with Gazprom export and chase the oil-gas deal that this assembly has ratified. The oil-gas deal with Russia is the best economic agreement the Republic of Serbia has signed over the past 40 years, which will bring Serbia hundreds of thousands of jobs, a highway pipeline throughout Serbia, to increase direct foreign investment of two billion dollars, close to 200m euros each year in gas transit, will get the best gas storage facility in the entire Southeast Europe region, only Austria will have a bigger gas storage facility. I also want to add, the NIS will enter a company that has its own oil. So Gazprom is the only company that can buy it today. Let me just add one more thing. After this financial collapse on the stock market, it is only now seen that this contract signed with Gazprom, a gas-oil deal, is extraordinary. If this had happened these days after the financial collapse, when the withdrawal of the money became much more expensive, when the percentages increased practically two, somewhere even three times, at a time when virtually no large company had the ability to get favourable loans, only now can you see how good this oil-gas deal is. (President: Time. I want to say, I deeply hope, as is our criticism of the gathering, that behind the criticism of others is really just a criticism of the collection of this price of gas raised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that it does not stand, I hope, deeply, I am not 100% sure that it does not stand, an attempt to bring down the best economic agreement, which is this oil-gas agreement with the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4779	MP Jadranko Vukovic, come in. Then Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I had no intention of reporting to the Rules of Procedure if no citizen had come here to defend Russia. Don't mind me, I'll never go out for this pay phone in my office for no reason, no arguments. However, a man who no longer represents or supports "r" from Russia or "s" from Serbia is that gentleman. So don't mind me saying why I went out for this pay phone. In order to comply with the Rules of Procedure, I am reporting under Rule 226 and I am asking Minister Dacic for a notice, and it is about this topic of gas. Because of this gentleman who came out here to defend the Russians, no one here should defend the Russians, I support the gas-oil deal, we even, if you remember, when the debate was, means that the Russians came here and that we had no interest at that time materially, it would be compensated by that gas agreement. But, Mr. Dacic, this is where the problems arise the moment the gas and oil transport deal was made. As all EU countries in the area of oil, gas and electricity transport via state-owned companies retain control of these transports, it was logical that the Serbian government, as a Serb participant, appointed the Serbian company, which, in the 100 per cent ownership of the state of Serbia, contained control in the future joint venture. It was exclusively the right of the Serbian government, the Republic of Serbia, to be named as a Serb participant in a future joint venture. Since you've been called here, Mr. Dacic, I'm here to defend you. Here, this gentleman who has now entered, call him, call me, take us to the polygraph, and you'll see who falls. What's this about? This gentleman a month and a half ago, I know, was with Zarko Zečević at Ali Shen, a Turk, actively participated in this story. So, Tomislav Nikolic, Ali Shen, Danko Djindjic, Zarko Zečević and Aleksandr Vlahovic, they will discover on this side who has messed up. We don't touch Russians. So you will see the role of Tomislav Nikolic, that is his friend, Ali Shen and Zarko Zecevic. So much, Mr. Dacic, so we'll continue, we in the SRS certainly have more than Mr. Chank, but we'll see what you do, and we'll go public with the evidence of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4781	Mr. Milorad Buha, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4782	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Serbian citizens, the view of the SRS is that the Serbian government withdraws this decision. It is highly unacceptable, socially inconclusive, and right now the Serbian government would have to meet the citizens of Serbia, because they cannot pay such a price of natural gas. That this is one of the government's nebuloses and the fact that all EU member states, meaning 27 countries, do not have the total increase defined by the Serbian government, or 60%, respectively. When we talk about the importance of Russia, we have also received information on the Committee on Industry, and here are some fellow MPs who say, which is the fact and the truth, that we get the most favourable price, the most favourable conditions of payment. But what does the government do to revive an agreement between the state of Serbia and the state of Russia that provides for customs privileges, which could also be one of the bonuses in the whole business? Don't do anything. We don't have a strategy to take advantage of this possibility. The whole world is looking towards Russia, how to engage in the energy system and everything that is the natural wealth of Russia. We're the only ones where we have the most favourable conditions we don't use. Why? That's a question for the government. The government will have to come here and explain why we're not using those bonuses Russia gives us. Another fact, the government and the prime minister must come here and say what direct and indirect costs are that charge such a high price of gas and what the structure of the profits is in the total price of gas. I'm asking a question -- I want the government to clear the calculation costs of the gas price structure. We know what the profits of the management staff in the public-communal company, the public company "Srbigas", are to tell us exactly how much of this participates in the total price of natural gas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4783	Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4784	Madam President, Mr. Minister, I could have called when the debate on details began, that is, the continuation of the proposal for a law on foreigners, but indeed the situation is extremely alarming in Montenegro. It has been ten days since the Separatist government of Milo Djukanovic recognised the Quasip state in our southern province. What is happening, Mr Dacic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that Andrija Mandic, leader of the Serbian List and president of the People's Party, has been on the hunger strike for eight days at the MP club in Montenegro's National Assembly and is also supported by Serbian radicals. Our party went out on the Serbian list, our MP Mr. Bojan Strunjas is every day with the president of the parliamentary group Mr. Mandic, and what yours is now coming to me after the gathering of not only Serbian radicals, but Serbs in front of Andrija's support is the fact, Mr. Dacic, that our ambassador to Montenegro, Zoran Lutovac, has not shown one single time to support Andrija Mandic and the Serbs in Montenegro. That's scandalous. We are now with this kind of behavior and without a statement from Serbian officials exactly pushing the Serbian people to go into something they do not want. Do you understand, Mr Dacic, that it is happening now and that the separatists would like it, these Milo criminals in Montenegro, to keep the list and to happen in 45 years, that they are so much assimilation of the Serbian people that, as in those elections, when communists came to power, instead of before 95.6% of Serbs, or 94.8% who pleaded as Serbs and Orthodox religions before World War II, 45th, only 3.6% of Serbs, and 80th and some Montenegrins, invented nations under Broz' dictatorial regime. Do you now want us to push our people into Serbia's Montenegro to go to Montenegro, or God forbid they're Shipari someday? Come on, please, do something. People are desperate. It's not that now, you know, it happened, and nothing further. What are we gonna do? Do you know, Mr Dacic, when your killed in The Hague Kazamat, President Slobodan Milosevic came to the elections with the will of Serbian citizens and when the Serbian national consciousness began to rise, by Gazimestan over everything else we worked as Serbs, regardless of what we were not political equalists of Slobodan Milosevic, millions of Serbs were raised and already in the first elections held in 2003, i.e. by the 2003 census, 33% of our countrymen declared themselves Serbs in Montenegro. In order to be a higher percentage and to support them, and be sure, Mr Dacic, that not only those who have pleaded as Serbs against what has happened and what Djukanovic's regime has done, we must help our people. After all, you can see for yourself, based on the negotiations and talks with Jusuf Kalamperovic so far, that they will not step down from their firm stance and that they will seek a discharge from Montenegrin citizenship, as he told you during the last talks. It is necessary that the state of Serbia, first of all, gives clear support to Serbs in Montenegro. We offer you as the SRS a declaration of the rights of Serbs in Serbia's Montenegro, which has entered the assembly procedure. Here, I end up with this, Mrs. Dejanovic, I think it is inappropriate for you to have lessons about what you should do and to whom you should be loyal to be held by the one who is excluded from our party and who first betrayed his president and his political party, and who did everything when he was deputy president of our party, in the absence of Professor Dr. Seselj, who resides in The Hague casamat, to tear down all the bridges of the SRS with the Russian Federation. But, and now, fortunately, with the help of above all the wonderful people we have in our parliamentary group and friends we have in the Russian Federation, we raise these bridges. We want Russia to provide support in this case, as well as in the case of support for Serbs in Serbia's Montenegro. Thank you, and I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4785	Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4786	Article 104. I had to answer because on several occasions what we said was misread, and some of the lies were brought here. So, if it is to trust Mr. Minister of Energy, Mr. Skundric, Serbia does not buy gas at a favourable price from the Russian Federation, from Gazprom. This is not the information we came up with in any secret way, said Mr Petar Skundric on the Energy Committee, if I am not mistaken, four days ago. So, Serbia, this price of gas. The main reason why 60% of the purchases took place, Minister Skundric said -- the price of gas on the market is over $550, not to bother lawmakers, but to count. We were shocked by the fact that Serbia has no privileged position, but we are even more shocked by the fact that Serbia does not have the lowest price possible, as you said, except Belarus. Italy buys gas at a better price than Serbia. That's all the data Mr. Skundric provided. Then, although it does not buy gas at a more favourable price, in Bosnia and Herzegovina gas is cheaper in household sales, in Serbia, the price is 39 euros, in Bosnia 31 Eurocent. Next thing you know, it's the middleman's question. It's not true that the Russians are looking for a mediator. The government of Zoran Djindjic, 2001. It was one of the first decisions to enter into direct talks with Gazprom and Serbia bought gas from Gazprom without intermediaries from 2000 to 2007. So it is not true that the Russians insist, nor do we expect the MPs here to defend Russia with all their heart and soul because they are primarily MPs of the Serbian parliament, but this is not about the Russians at all. Believe that Gazprom is funny that it was given to them by Serbia. They can't believe it themselves, but they're not crazy, it's about profit, they're not crazy not to accept something like that, it's about the company. Furthermore, the gentleman mentioned by Jadranko Vukovic, Ali Shen, is very interesting about the meeting, we would like to hear more about it, given that Ali Shen of the Serbian government participated directly in negotiations and agreements with the Serbian government and he is the man who paid for 25% of the company Jugorosgas, which was sold so-called. Austrian, actually, daughter of Gazprom. But Shen was a middleman and made a direct payment. These documents are in our possession, and we're going to step in, according to all those documents, the heads of Parliament's groups. The main reason why we insist on the middleman so much is that the mediator took part in the price formation. Jugorosgas is a company that took part in the price formation by preventing gas supplies from being created, by including, as the basis for the price, a $550 market price, and the mediator is in the interest that Serbian citizens pay as much gas as possible, because their profits consist of a percentage that is obtained for the price. That's why it's a crime, and that's why political responsibility is the most important. Is it possible to lower the price of gas now or not? Yes, we carried out a series of measures to Mr. Skundric, he accepted everything and agreed. The further answer to that should be given by the Government. The government said it would allow the price of gas to be paid to the wars. That's nice and we support it. But what about the other 50 prices they collected based on the price of gas? Are we going to pay for that too? What about municipal services in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac? It'll all come together. This includes irresponsibility and all because the Serbian government allowed Serbia to find itself in such a position that it cannot affect the price of gas in its country in 2005-2006.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4787	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4788	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dacic, I reported by article 100 because there was a mistake in interpreting this which I repeatedly spoke about at the speaker and what LDP MPs were saying. In fact, let's say that we don't look back on the need for bigger Russians than Russians to appear for this assembly payphone. We don't mind that, but I think it's very important to respect the facts brought out of the congregation pay phone. If the energy agreement with the Russian Federation were good, we would not criticise it, we would support it, or the arguments that would be made in its contribution would be better quality than those we heard. We are constantly suggested, as the first benefit of this agreement, the truth that we are not paying for the gas orders we are sending to the Russian partner. In translation, we don't pay a penalty for what we haven't spent, unlike other countries that do. It's simple, if they order that much gas, and then someone separates that amount of gas according to that order, so they don't sell someone else because they're gone, and eventually there's no realisation of that job, then they charge for the penalty. It is a practice not in Serbia and Russia's affairs, but in jobs anywhere in the world. It is, in itself, a normal procedure and not the Russian devils because they insist and charge for it. Why did they set us free from paying for those pens? Because we have nowhere to store the gas we order from Gazprom. Other countries order more gas than they can currently spend, so they deposit that gas in their warehouses or in the space they rent in other countries' warehouses. Our natural gas storage Banatski dvor is dysfunctional and cannot deposit the required amount of gas in it, and it is dysfunctional because it is irresponsibly operational. Who is responsible for the situation in which the Banatical Court is located? It's a Russian partner, because in 96, there's an apparition signed by SRJ President Zoran Lilic, based on Article 96. The Constitution of the SRJ, which has been approved by the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between Yugoslavia and the Government of the Russian Federation, came into force. Now listen to what this agreement covers. These are identical formulations of the parts of the energy agreement that we ratified a month ago, without any question of what was done in the meantime. "Yugorosgas" was also obliged to reconstruct the Banatical Court, to put it into functional use, "Yugorosgas" was obliged to build a highway pipeline, did not build it, and "Yugorosgas" was obliged to compensate for the damage, under this agreement, unless something was done right. (President: Time. ) Instead, we are the only quality to be called upon, in fact, in the decision of the Assembly AD "Yugorosgas", which was held in Moscow on 7 June 2005 and in which, at point 5 below, it is stated: "As "Yugorosgas" showed losses in business in 2004, the Assembly decided not to approve of the payments of the 13th salary". Both in 2001 and 2002, and in 2003 and in 2004 "Yugorosgas" demonstrated losses because he could not charge the commission. In 2005, the profit was shown to be $40m, in 2006, $40m, in 2007 as well. We'll see how big it's gonna be in 2008 because of this increase. Look at the difference. Seven people are getting paid at Jugorosgas, some of whom were mentioned by opposition MPs. When did parliament decide on this, when did the government decide on it? Here a senior official of the previous government tells us it has nothing to do with them. Officially, they were in charge of it. If there is a force greater in this country than the government, let us be told, and then we will see what we are going to do, because I think that the government must respect itself and that we must respect our own country. Thank you. I only answered because we misread our words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4789	Work on the agenda. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SIDES LAW (resumption in particular) The People's MP Milovan Radovanovic, who tabled an amendment to Article 14.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 14(4). Proposal for a foreign law. It has been my honor to explain on behalf of the parliamentary group the justification of the amendment, as well as to convince, which is impossible, the assembly majority to declare themselves in the day of the vote in favour of the amendment. The position of Article 14, which, by the parliamentary group and me as the official proposing, is the amendment, reads: "Before issuing a visa, diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to obtain the previous consent of the ministry, when provided for by the regulation set out in Article 5. The amendment stipulates that in Article 14(4), the words "diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Serbia" are replaced by the words "legislatively established state authority". In Article 14(4) and in most of the provisions of this proposal, the legislator introduced a vague, less legal, logically less clear and incomplete linguistic provision on the jurisdiction and name of the authority to act on a specific request. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the current law was passed in 1980, the Law on the Movement and Stay of Foreigners. He has repeatedly, as you stated in the explanation, been nominate, but the essence of the solution to that law has remained unchanged. Meanwhile, these provisions of the current law have become incompatible with the standards of individual countries or all EU countries. It is okay to be compatible with EU solutions, it is not a problem at all. Why do these EU countries rob us of Kosovo and Metohija? Why are they trying to break the state, parliamentism and democracy in Serbia? Why do they finance breaking the SRS in their role? This has been particularly intensified since 22 May of the current year, following a secret meeting and agreements on Goc and other destinations. You say in the bill - the tendency to approach certain standards and solutions that exist in the legislations of individual democratically developed countries. It's just fine, it's not at all controversial. For us Serbian radicals, the SRS MPs, it is not at all disputed, because if we seek more modern and acceptable solutions and their essence, why not make sure that the remaining solutions, which are not essential, but which make the existence of this law, are adequate to legal institutes and logical terms. That is the essence and reason why we have submitted the amendment to Article 14(4). Let's say, using the terms, Mr. Minister, I'm sure that's not your fault, that's your service, using terms that are foreign to Serbian language and expressions that can't go in line with that official Serbian language. In the jargon that, like to relive, respect etc. I mean the correction in a legal-technical sense. You start the bill, the first sentence - this law regulates the conditions. I guess it should - this law regulates conditions, it's more correct, etc. The Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners who are now in force, until the new law enters, treated the entry of foreigners into our country, travel documents, visas and most of them, of course, who needed the visa. You are saying in light of the law that our country as an independent state, that Serbia as an independent state should pursue trends in resolving such a same issue and their standards in EU countries. I've already said that's not at all controversial. This -- an independent state is very well said to be real. Of course, Serbia should be an independent state and that all its internal issues should be resolved on its own, with the consent of not just any country, but with co-operation with standards, with officials and bodies from other countries, both from Europe and the world. But why are we not an independent state when it comes to this law? For years, they have been conducting various agents in Serbia, not officially, but illegally, secretly. How did they secretly get in in 2003 and continue to be Anthony Monkton, head of Great Britain intelligence for the Balkans or David Black, the same head of Balkan US intelligence? On what grounds? Did they get the travel papers? Did they get a visa? And if we don't talk about a group of people led by a certain Hill, 11 Commandos, and not one of them from this room, is not a person from this room, who entered the country on 11 March 2003 secretly, incognito in the state, who stayed only one day at the airport, whether with passport control or general control of the entry of foreigners into the country or not, we see now from secret transcripts, and the state is not responding, the prosecution is not responding, the police are not responding or at least we don't know that you're reacting. They were there one day and in the meantime what happened: Zoran Djindjic was killed on March 12th 2003 and the investigation was deliberately turned in the wrong direction and the wrong way. Why don't you investigate that? It's all about this foreign law, I deliberately compare these examples and these cases with the functioning of the state, to tell you that we're not an independent state, you can't react. As your publics are protected from the parties in power, so are all representatives, including ordinary citizens, great forces, as you say, America, Great Britain, France, can do whatever they want. Do they even need a visa, do they need a travel document to stay in our country? All these citizens can get to know each other, publish a single journal every day of the covert transcripts. So there's something. All it takes is for the authorities to react and find the real culprits. I believe you DS want the real truth about the murder of Zoran Djindjic, and they have the right to know members of his family. They have their own version, probably, maybe it's that version of the murder, but they need to know the right version. This is the same case, as could have been the suspension of a consular representative of Serbia in America following the case of Miladin Kovacevic. Has he acted contrary to the Law on the residence and movement of foreigners? Miladin Kovacevic is not a foreigner when he was given the opportunity to return from America to Serbia. As if he were a stranger, that's how you reacted to this man who was a consul in America. We are getting information that you are conducting official negotiations, Mr. Minister, or if you prefer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister or First Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, whatever I will say, as you prefer and accept more, to discuss with Montenegro the way of crossing citizens of Montenegro from Serbia over one border and another border and that transition regime. It's all right. It would be good if you could figure out a way to cross without any travel documents, just on the basis of your I.D. It is necessary to install it into the law, to know that it is a legal provision, not from case to case, as any government will change and create a parliamentary assembly majority here in Serbia. It would be good if you did the same thing with the Republika Srpska, all you need to do is put it into regulations and legalize the relevant law, that is, in this case, the law on foreigners. Mr. Minister, we know that the most responsible people from the DS and Boris Tadic are. But I can't help but ask you, what about those responsible for overpowering and causing riots at the SRS rally on July 29th, where a citizen, friend, brother Ranko Panic was killed. Still, did criminal charges against the responsible, those who directly did it, who beat him, and he succumbed to those beatings and came to him death as a result of beatings. Does your investigation, Mr. Minister, perhaps reveal that at that time someone who was still in the SRS, former people in the SRS, knew about the scenario of those riots on July 29th and who it was? Was there anyone and who it was? I'm sure neither he nor anyone, nor you wanted anyone to die. I'm sure of it, come on, let's say, I believe that's impossible. But someone here is obviously fooled, all those who were at the SRS rally and those who separated 50 or 100 dinars to come here. Finally, Mr. Minister, as the parliamentary mandates of the SRS have been restored in all Serbia almost, and in Nis and Zajecar, I expect that in Aleksinc, you will take advantage of your influence, which is not so small, and especially after this yesterday's declaration of reconciliation of your party, whose president and DS Boris Tadic are to return the parliamentary mandates of the SRS, which came to the polls on 11 May 2008 and until the next elections, the SRS should have its mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4791	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the basis of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on foreigners, which refers to the extension of the period of validity of the visa, Article 20(3). The promoter, or you say - ''closer terms, the form requires and how to extend the period of validity of the visa in the cases referred to in Article 2(2), shall be prescribed by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. ''The amendment that I have tabled in front of the party reads: in Article 20(3), 'the Minister responsible for Home Affairs' is replaced by 'the Ministry of Internal Affairs'. The explanation of this amendment - in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia only state authorities have the right to lay down rules governing the exercise of certain rights, the appearance and content of public documents, while this right does not belong to the managers of those bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4793	Is anyone else answering for a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to have to point out here certain directions to the activity of the state authorities in terms of entering the White Schengen list. I think the ministry, I think, will have a very prominent and significant role to play here. This ministry will circle with these two laws, the Law on Foreigners and the Law on the Protection of the State Border, a legislation that is a condition for the implementation of visa liberalisation. However, in order to implement these legal projects, it is necessary to take other legal and legal technical actions in order to meet the EU's requirements. What are the conditions? It is – legal conditions, then sublegal conditions, conditions that are provided for in terms of administrative monitoring of the movement and entry of foreigners, exit of foreigners from the country, technical and technological conditions, which include all equipment activities in the technical and technological sense of all state authorities participating in this procedure, as well as other conditions. We are currently on the grey list, and we know what problems our citizens have for obtaining paper, so to speak, in a broader sense, for joining the EU. Schengen regulations are clear and the conditions set by the EU, according to the Schengen Treaty, were also known to previous governments. The previous government and previous governments had to do all the work much faster and fill in all the works and actions in order to get into a position to move from gray to white Schengen. Now we're in a time teat. On Friday, I stressed that we will not be able to meet all the conditions that stand with us, so starting with these laws, which are not the only ones, sublegal, administrative, technical and other, which are not negligible. Our government, in order to meet all this that is a condition according to Schengen, has to inform the European Commission. The European Commission is sending mediators to monitor the fulfillment of all conditions here. The procedure lasts three to four months. In front of us is the period when Christmas holidays come, January when neither our institutions nor their institutions work, so we can expect their arrival until next year. When the European Commission gets a positive opinion on the fulfilment of the conditions, then we enter into one procedure that is provided for by their regulations. If we have met all the conditions, the Council of Ministers shall be informed, the Council of Ministers shall inform the European Parliament. Elections for the European Parliament are under way next year. So if we do not meet all of this by the fifth month, we cannot expect the European Parliament to continue working just because of us, etc. So it's their normal procedure, election procedure. It is expected that we will not be able to get there before the tenth month, when the constitution of the European Parliament is completed, only then can we expect to enter into the debate. Optimistically, if we could get on the white Schengen list before the end of next year, that would be satisfactory. I'm asking the government, I'm asking everyone responsible -- why this procedure and all these procedures that were necessary haven't been done before? Why wasn't this law passed three or four years ago? Why is he late with the other laws? In order to gain full membership for an EU candidate, according to the Association Office, 49 more laws have to be passed. How long does it take us to adopt all these laws - very much? Again the issue to the government - why we did not meet everything envisaged by the Action Plan, and the National Joining Strategy. At the very least, and with daily warnings from the EU, not only about the UN tribunal, but also about all the legal, sublegal, administrative and other rules and conditions set up by the state authorities, that is the problem. The current government does nothing to speed up these proceedings. It may seem satisfactory at the moment that, as far as legal regulations are concerned, it has fulfilled everything and that the adoption of these three laws will satisfy the legal form, but in the real implementation of all legal projects, implementation of projects in practical life will pass time and time. The waters and the waters of the Danube shall pass away until we have brought to life all that is sought. We know what their terms are, especially their observers and controllers who come here to control us. We don't take accession seriously. We are full of EU mouths, accessions, etc., but we are practically doing nothing to bring life to life. What is ours, which is subjective, are the things of our internal organization, according to the rules and conditions prescribed by the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4795	Anyone else want a word? If not, we move on to the amendment to Article 15, which was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from the People's Parliament of the Witch of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, there's something wrong with your order. We just had an amendment to Article 20, now to Article 15, please take care of it. You're confusing the MPs who are preparing for their amendments. A colleague, Dragan Stevanovic, submitted an amendment to Article 15, where he asked to be in the position of the 2nd member, instead of saying "Minister in charge of Foreign Affairs, with the agreement of the interior minister" to replace the ministry with the words that it is responsible for these affairs and that it does so with the agreement of the interior ministry. Otherwise, Article 15 speaks of visa types and says that visa types are provided for by this law: airport transit visa, transit visa, visa for shorter stay, visa for temporary stay. In the second position of this member, the appearance, form, content and method of entry into the foreign visas referred to in Article 1 shall be prescribed by the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs, with the agreement of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. The amendment tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group is in line with the position of the SRS, our successor group, and we have been doing it for years, any law in question, trying to draw attention to government representatives when they propose laws to take care of the Serbian state's legal system. We have here a statement from the government that the amendment has not been accepted because, in the State Administration Act, the minister is authorized to bring, as the government says, regulations, not the ministry, so neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can be the subject of sublegal acts. This explanation means nothing to us. The fact that something is written in the Law on State Administration is not a sacred letter. We are trying to draw attention to the amendments to the other laws that need to be changed in all the laws passed by the National Assembly, because if we submit an amendment to any proposal for any law, you cannot answer us that it is not in accordance with some existing law. We know what's written in the Law on State Administration, but we state the principle of the SRS that it's not so good and that it can't do that. Of course, to know that if you, Mr Dacic, would accept this amendment on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to imply that you are ready for amendments and other regulations, I mean not personally, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to amend and other regulations, and above all, the Law on State Administration, where you would change that. And then the consequence would be that in all the other laws you're proposing, you're not giving the Minister such broad powers. This became "modern" when the finance laws were passed, from the time Mladjan Dinkic was headed. At that time, we paid particular attention that we should not give such broad authority to the minister, of course to any minister from whatever party. The minister cannot have such a privilege that he himself can prescribe visa forms. First of all, the minister won't do it, the ministry employees will work, possibly the interior ministry will be the head, not the interior minister or foreign minister. It is impossible for the act to go to the head of the Republic of Serbia, underneath which is the foreign minister, and then a sublegal act. It just can't, it's not serious. So, one side of the medal is how much we can't and it's not good to give the minister as an individual such broad authority, and on the other hand, it's simply not in the spirit of our legal system. In light of this amendment, it is written that in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, only state authorities have the right to lay down rules governing the exercise of certain rights, appearances and content of public documents. That's the only thing that's normal. The ministry is a state body, the minister is an elder of a state authority. The elder of the state authority signs an act by the ministry, because then there is no purpose of the ministry, then there should be only one set of people who understand this job run by the minister. So what does the ministry do if it doesn't bring in and if it doesn't propose sublegal acts? So it's not a good argument either, because the explanation is actually throwing dust in the eyes. Now someone who reads this amendment and the government's explanation to say, so wait, this government is right, it really is in the State Administration Act. We're talking about something that is an SRS position, which is not a good solution, which is not a constitutional solution. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has regulated what state authorities are in the Republic of Serbia and the minister is not a state body. I repeat, the minister is only an elder at the head of a ministry that is a state body. Imagine if, in all state bodies, the authorities of the local self-government and so on, we gave such broad powers to the elders of the organs, then indeed, the very existence of the organ would lose its meaning. Mr Minister, that is why we propose that you accept these amendments in this sense, and then of course your colleagues propose and amend the Law on State Administration and other laws that give such broad powers to ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4797	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the foreign law. In fact, Article 21 says: "The refusal to issue a visa and the cancellation of a visa by the Authority responsible for issuing visas will not issue a visa if: 1) the period of validity of a foreign travel document expires in less than 90 days; 2) if there is any interference under Article 11 of this Law; 3) if a foreigner does not personally respond to the invitation of the diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Serbia". Then point 2: "Extremely from the provisions of Article 1, the visa can be issued for humanitarian reasons (and later I will return to that term "humanitarian reasons"), if it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia or if it is imposed by internationally accepted obligations". In Article 21(2), I asked that the words "an internationally accepted obligation" be replaced by the words "obligations established by international legal acts". I don't see what's so controversial about it. On the basis of the government's explanation, the government gave me this explanation or the SRS parliamentary group gave this explanation: "The government does not accept this amendment because the membership's formulation implies that these obligations are accepted by means of international legal acts, i.e. international agreements, agreements and conventions, and given that international public law applies the principle of volunteering, and these obligations cannot at all be established but simply accepted as stated." Let's take the explanation of this foreign law now. An important law on the movement and residence of foreigners was passed back in 1980, at the time of the SFRY, and then foreigners had to apply, as foreigners were viewed in some way and as people who came able to undermine a constitutional state system. He says, "This law was passed on the basis of the SFRY Constitution, whose solutions have long been overcome. Among other things, the solutions contained in this law are not compatible with the standards that determine the problems of foreigners in the European Union, as well as the latest trends in this area that have been adopted and brought to life in the developed democratic system. Also, the need arose for the Republic of Serbia, as an independent state, for the first time in line with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to address the issues of entry, movement and residence of foreigners in its territory. ''And then, with precision, Article 21 sets out the reasons why the competent authority will not issue a visa or cancel it. And then the following sentence: "For humanitarian reasons, if it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia or if it is imposed by internationally accepted obligations, the visa can be issued, and the Ministry can determine that a foreigner can only be allowed to enter at a certain border crossing. Paragraphs 4 and 5 of the same article stipulates that the authority responsible for issuing visas or border police may cancel the already issued visa if it subsequently finds that there is some interference under Article 11 of this Act. '"There's only one stranger here and I'm part of the sentence - for humanitarian reasons. You should have figured out, humanitarian reasons could be medical. The humanitarian reasons can be when applied to human trafficking victims, and that's where the part can be inserted when you say humanitarian reasons. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you're in this thinking, as well as your associates, that it's not an internationally accepted obligation, but rather an obligation established by international legal acts, is not Milorad Krstin, but Christin Milorad, but I thought that for this very part, where you say for humanitarian reasons, this should be extended because it's very important to specify which humanitarian reasons. I'll take the opportunity, because I don't have the opportunity to talk about what this assembly should be about, and that's when we got the budget rebalance material for 2008, I looked at what the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management got, and I can tell you that I'm really surprised that somehow the Serbian Government can afford so much luxury to destroy what little is left of the words of agriculture. I can't understand the government, I can't understand the minister saying on the Committee on Agriculture that the price of wheat was tailored by tycoons, that two weeks before the harvest itself, the price of wheat was 15.75 pairs, that the price would later be reduced, and most or 30% had not yet been paid. What to say about this budget rebalancing for 2008, for agriculture, forestry and water industry, when we know that the price of the sunflower from 2,700 for 100 kilograms would go to 2,415, so that some oilers like Vital Vrbas, when they saw that it was satisfactorily done, dropped to 2,300 and most have not yet received money for their product, which have been waiting for months. What to say about the price of fertilisers that went 80% on the basis of the spring sowing we had and now we question how much this autumn seeds will be afforded by farmers' ability to throw and get some bigger yields, that this raises the farmer himself and that the country itself too is abdicating. What to say about the subsidies you so kindly promised, until May 11th, until the election, is about subsidies to the agricultural land of 10,000 dinars per hectare. You then, until May 11th, until these elections, gentlemen of the yellow company, were in a hurry to pay off all those who applied, so that after that, you would literally care to pay off these subsidies. Should you think about being one of the next points and conditions in the agrarian? What to say about fruit corn in 2008, when the individual agricultural producer now carries 10 thousand pounds, combines and takes it to the drought, and based on the table when it drops to 14% moisture, it remains, if 22% moisture is pure 7,909 kilograms; 2,100 kilograms based on that table in drying simply does not exist. We'll only see when he collects the gas then how many droughts will take a toll from an individual agricultural producer. Therefore, the prices of corn now related to 2008 are based on 14% moisture - 660 dinars per 100 kilograms, last year were 1,700 dinars. To return to the subsidies that were activated and given to registered agricultural holdings on 11 May only because they were the elections of 11 May, then he could buy an individual agricultural producer a much larger amount of mixed fertilizer - three fifteens, which are always thrown when wheat was sown, barley in the fall. And the guy who gets it, if he gets it in the first place this year, now he's gonna have to buy a fertilizer at 80% more expensive price. The Minister of Agriculture says -- so we got 200m euros from the government of Japan and 50,000 tonnes of mixed fertilizer will be able to buy for an unfulfilled 3,000 dinar. It's the same fertilizer that the ministry brokers sell over the product stock market, you've got as many as you want now, the Efertil factory for 4,000 dinars. From 2,980 dinars per 100 kilograms, someone takes the difference to 4,000 dinars. That's where you government gentlemen have to question each other. That's what you gentlemen from this yellow company and you who make up most of this government have to ask yourself if any more individual agricultural producers can withstand so many minimum prices of agricultural products and so many large prices of seed and fertilizer. When you bring it in to make it even, then you can boast that this branch of the economy -- agriculture will do something for this Serbia, for these citizens. This is how you keep driving the peasants out of the field, making them make future crusts out of the fields, and making them not process, and you want the minister to make professional peasants. With this policy, you won't succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4799	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The Messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuh, and the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. The People's MP Milorad Buha says you have the advantage. The word has been given by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The time available for SRS is three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4800	I have reported for the non-discipline of the government of the Republic of Serbia's relationship with amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Here's why. In Article 21, you say - exclusively from the provisions, it is said that the refusal to issue visas and visa cancellations, the issuing authority will not issue a visa if I do not, now, have no time to read, mostly exclusively from the provisions of Article 1 of this Article can be issued for humanitarian reasons, if it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia or if they impose international obligations. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Momir Markovic submitted an amendment to Article 11, where he asked for a new position to be added after Article 3, which reads -- to an extremely foreigner who does not meet the conditions of this member, the ministry may grant entry into the Republic of Serbia, if humanitarian and health-sanitary reasons or national interests so require. It is amazing that you have not accepted this amendment, although Article 21 is in quite a relationship with Article 11 because in the fourth position you say - the authority responsible for issuing visas or border police will have already issued a visa if it subsequently finds that there is some of the interference in Article 11 of this Act. Obviously, it's not about someone taking this amendment seriously and it is, I'm sure this amendment to Article 11, should be accepted, because you already say here, even though you don't have it in Article 11, and we suggest you have it, and you say you're going to issue an exceptional visa for humanitarian reasons. This was just an observation, to remind you that you should make sure that we do it very seriously. You say in Article 21, we said: "Internationally accepted obligations" are replaced by the words "obligations established by international legal acts, that is, in accordance with international public law". What does the government tell us? It does not accept this amendment because the membership formulation implies that these obligations are accepted on the basis of international legal acts, i.e. international contracts, agreements and conventions, and bearing in mind that the principle of volunteering applies in international public law. Mr Dacic, was the principle of volunteering in international public law valid when Slobodan Milosevic was taken to The Hague, when Radovan Karadzic was taken to The Hague, when Zdravko Tolimir was taken to The Hague, when Stojan Zupljanin was taken to The Hague, not to talk about the names of people who allegedly went voluntarily. Just because we know that international public law is not respected, precisely because we know that the principles of international public law are not respected, we have suggested that what our law is strictly written, not internationally accepted obligations, too broadly, we do not know what, not specifically, but obligations established by international legal acts. I see no valid reason not to accept this amendment, which absolutely does not touch you in essence, nor in the concept of your law, of your proposal, but we are merely referring to something that this Article 21 in point 2 would be specific, concrete, concise. We always have some laws where we leave the possibility of abuse, holes in the law, etc. It's not good, and given our experience I've been applying international public law and regulations... (President: 15 minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Thank you, I end up, at least in this regard we should make sure that in our acts, in our laws we do not make these mistakes that cost our citizens, I have listed all those who have been kidnapped and taken to The Hague, also mentioning the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who has been violated in The Hague in the most brutal way for six years... (President: 16 minutes. )... guaranteed by international public law and international public law acts, I end up with this sentence, they don't respect it, and we're still leaving them the opportunity to continue to expand and do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4801	Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Ivica Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4802	I just want to, ladies and gentlemen, give you an explanation. It is precisely the text written in the bill that says that when it comes to international obligations, and that is why the principle of volunteering, as you know, applies to us only to those international obligations that we accept. That's the principle of volunteering. If it remains as proposed, that the obligations established by international legal acts are, there are obligations set out in various international legal acts that Serbia may not accept or accept. Here the goal is exactly what we said - we are subject to the international obligations that we ratify, which is what we accept in a way that is defined by the Constitution and the laws. After all, with regard to these cases you spoke of, and the Assembly of then-SRJ seems to have even brought the truth, after then against the constitutional extradition of Slobodan Milosevic, passed the Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4803	Right to the replica, on behalf of the parliamentary group, MP Dragan Todorovic, on the basis of Article 101. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it's exactly what you said, but in international law and relations, there's another rule, and that's reciprocity, why isn't our country even referring to it? Unfortunately, not only our country, but many countries in the world, specifically when it comes to America, they are nowhere to be held accountable. That volunteering comes down to hand twisting, under duress, and it's not just in our country's situation, unfortunately. I'd remind you of that case that took place in Italy, when an American pilot got angry with his plane, performed acrobatics, cut off the ropes and killed 25 people. After that, he was immediately transferred to America, not allowed to be tried in Italy, as there are many examples of the crimes that Americans committed, as members of the occupation forces in many countries. Among other things, it happened at KIM. How come, Mr. Minister, that we as a state, in our relations, not only with America, but also with other states, do not accept reciprocity, specifically when it comes to the Hague tribunal. We accept The Hague tribunal, we advocate that the UN tribunal responds to those who allegedly committed war crimes, and why we do not insist that those who also committed war crimes, as far as I remember, the government in which they were radicals and the Socialists in a regular and legal court procedure condemn those responsible for the war crimes committed against the SRJ. What's with the facts? How come we just accept the things they force us to do, and in return we can't achieve any of our only rights? That's what the SRS wants, that the state starts working on equal relations with the world and with the states, that we don't accept that subordinate position. Not only do we accept a subordinate position, but we accept that we self-inflicted with ash and accept everything that requires of us those who aim to destroy us definitely and completely, which is to humiliate us, to tear apart all the institutions that are important to the Serbian people and which mean the survival of the Serbian people. I'm sorry, I'm a little out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4805	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Ambassador Dragan Zivkov has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4806	I have submitted an amendment to Article 24 of the Foreign Law, in fact, the proposal for a law on foreigners, which reads that in point 1 of point 1, the words "stay up to 90 days" are replaced by the words "short-term stay". In the light of the amendments, as regards this amendment, it says that this amendment proposes harmonising the text of the law with the provisions of the International Convention on Foreigners and other provisions of international law governing the status of private and other rights of foreigners. The answer the Government gave, not to accept this amendment, is the reason why our law does not know the category of short-term stay, not to dispute that in some countries such a law, i.e. The category of short-term stay exists. Since our country faces many situations, i.e. To Serbs from the diaspora, i.e. from the former states of the readmission now being implemented, I believe this amendment should be accepted by the Government. I would also use the presence of a minister of police, who is a representative of the government for this law, to ask him some questions. There are gentlemen from the ministry next to the minister, so I'd like to ask the minister a number of questions that will be raised through my discussion. I would set up certain situations where foreigners who appear in certain organisations, whether they are political or from some funds or from NGOs, who freely manipulate and come into our country, who even act politically, act negatively for our country and act negatively for our economy. Here, in a daily press, a text has come out whose title is very disturbing for the people of Vojvodina, where it says, "Train for terrorists." This organization called County 64, which has been coming to our country for many years, i.e. in Vojvodina, where she held such gatherings, where even the service, i.e. police and provide such gatherings, as was the meeting in Subotica, Sainta, Topoli, Vienna and many of the cities of Vojvodina, where the organisation was involved in its programmes. I wonder in this situation where there is even a question of secession and Vojvodina and the statutes of Vojvodina, which will come to this Parliament's agenda, where we will probably be able to discuss it at that time, but I wonder if Mr Lazlo Torockai is allowed to come to our country, so that he acts as this text writes and whether our country allows and can provide such gatherings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4807	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4808	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue this story by my colleague Zivkov, but I will return to Articles 2 and 3. The proposal for a law on foreigners, which defines the question to which categories of foreigners are not covered by this law, says in paragraph 1 - to those who have applied for asylum, or who have been given asylum in the Republic of Serbia, if the law is not different, so under two of those who, by international law, enjoy privileges and immunities in the work which has been excluded from those privileges and immunities." On the SRS proposal, we have made an amendment and added another category, and these are persons who have achieved refugee status. This amendment has been accepted and I think it is good to be accepted because this category of foreigners, because under Article 3 of this bill, foreigners are all those who do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, so refugees are foreigners, but we have avoided the application of the law to refugees who have achieved refugee status. I think it is a very good solution because we do not apply the rigid provisions of this law in some situations, because we have hundreds, dozens, and probably hundreds of thousands of refugees who have not yet received citizenship from the Republic of Serbia, you are being mistreated in obtaining documentation from Croatia, paying huge administrative and other costs, and travel expenses going to Croatia, coming back here, handing over, and individuals have been teaching several applications for obtaining Serbian citizenship, etc. It's one of the ujduras refugees had, but here I must stress that the government of the Republika Srpska in persecution, on several occasions warned the state authorities, I also here in the state parliament, representatives of the SRS, asked the Ministry to apply the provisions that have been ratified, which is a provision of the Convention on the Status of Refugees, which requires a favourable approach of the state to the refugee population, according to displaced persons. We warned the government not to make those moves, which was related to a number of documentation which Serbs, who were expelled from the former Yugoslav states, had to bring to the state authorities, and the documents brought to the state body clearly show that there is all the necessary information to obtain new documents. I will refer here to one information sent to all the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, including us as MPs, from the High Commissioner for Refugees, which says that according to the High Commissioner for Refugees since 1 July 2008, there are 96,948 refugees from BiH and Croatia or 80% less than in 1996. Of that number, 1,379 lives in the remaining 59 collective centres. I don't think this information the High Representative has is complete because the number of faces in collective centres is far, far higher, it's moving around about 6,000 and it's in constant fluctuation. It is important that the findings that coincide with everything that we have on behalf of the Government of the Republika Srpska in exile, on behalf of the Assembly, on behalf of all the refugee populations, refer to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. I will try to read in a short version this memo that has arrived to all state authorities by the High Commissioner for Refugees. The letter says -- in 1992, the government passed a Law on refugees referring to refugees from the republic of the former SFRY. The government also adopted a comprehensive National Strategy to address refugee problems, internally displaced people, in 2002. Given the modest results achieved by implementing this strategy, the High Commissioner for Refugees advocates its review and update. It is this last sentence that says that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are not in the right direction and that those moves made by the government and the state authorities are not real. They must, as they said here in a letter from the High Commissioner, re-examine and update themselves. What do we have to do? We need to address the issue of legislation too well. The 1991 Refugees Act has been overcome. In his matter, he gave certain definitions that have now been overcome and they have to change. Here I will read only Article 4 which is very important, so that he can hear it between the other and the public of Serbia. It says -- the Republic of Serbia provides collective protection for private, property and other rights and the freedom of refugees and provides international and legal protection in a way that has been established for its citizens. Perhaps this solution was good for those conditions during the period of war conflicts, the exorcision of Srbaitd. However, today, and especially in the 2000 period, we have a terrible standstill of state authorities in the area of protection of the personal, property, collective rights of refugees. The state authorities are doing nothing to bring these provisions to life. I have spoken here numerous examples of the lack of care of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the return of property to Croatia, and in other former republics, about the return of their property, social rights, and I have specifically mentioned about pensions. Look, the provision is very good in a formal sense, however, in a functional sense, the state authorities are doing nothing to help refugees, the refugee population, in terms of the return of their deprived personal and collective rights. On the other hand, it says -- it provides international protection. I ask the question: is any dispute against Croatia initiated by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia? It's not. We have two very important international agreements between Serbia and Croatia, one on normalisation of relations, in Article 7 it is clear and decided that the two states will do everything in terms of returning, safe and safe return of Serbs to the premises of Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, but there is nothing since returning. According to data from the Republika Srpska government in persecution, 55,000 Serbs returned to Croatia, and in this memo we see, I will read it later entirely, also their data, data from the High Commissioner said that about 55,000 were also returned, but it was already of those 55,000 who were returned there, who actually live there, about 15,000 died. Most of the elderly return, return to the fires, burned, destroyed, devastated houses and hearths. We have only 40,000 Serbs living there. Croatian authorities falsely provide information that between 120-140,000 Serbs live in Croatia. That data is not accurate, and that confirms this memo that we have from the High Commissioner for Refugees. I will continue to read this information that clearly points to huge refugee problems. He says -- after an emergency humanitarian aid period during the 1990s, UN High Commissioner's programmes and activities in Serbia in recent years have been increasingly focused on providing assistance and on providing lasting solutions to the most vulnerable categories of refugees and internally displaced persons, as well as on building a national asylum system. Voluntary repatriation. Given that all major obstacles have been removed and that all refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, who wanted it, have returned to their homeland, the UN High Commissioner believes the organised return of refugees from Serbia to Bosnia and Herzegovina is over. The voluntary return of refugees to Croatia has proved much more problematic. Since 1996, about 131,000 people have returned to the country, representing 50% of the evasive population. However, a 2007 feasibility study showed that only half of them remained and lived in Croatia. The Croatian government has launched several housing programmes to help returnees rebuild their homes and build a new or provide alternative accommodation. Due to a series of obstacles, a significant number of potential users are not included in these programs. The UN High Commissioner in Serbia believes the biggest unresolved problem is the loss of housing rights, which has greatly prevented refugees from returning to urban areas. The High Commissioner for Refugees continues to advocate a comprehensive and fair solution for all former tenants. Now, with housing rights, we need to comment a little wider on what happened to the Serbs who had a tenant right.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4809	Fifteen minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4810	I'll pick it up later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4811	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we don't know if you know that your ministerial post is slowly shaking, although you have written this love reconciliation with DS, and the reason is that Tadic has promised his pet, citizen Nikolic, on the condition that he will pass the Law School, that he will come to your place. Here, I can cheer you up that Mr. Nikolic has finished Law School, and it's by Bologna, and he rightly expects it to be your place, but I don't believe it if he comes and if he's a minister he won't be able to go to Zabela. Since Madam President is not here, I will address you Vice President. The workers of the Bar Assembly are dissatisfied to the very environment in which they work because the Progressives are at the bar and believe they smoke a lot. You know very well that it is forbidden, so I recommend that they move across the street to Mr. Tadic's cabinet, there's a smoking permit. Now I'm going back to the amendment, so you'll probably adopt it because it's really constructive. On the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I submit an amendment to the proposal for a law on foreigners. The bill states above Article 25 - Staying for up to 90 days, and Article 25 of this bill reads: ''A stay of up to 90 days shall be considered to be a foreigner without a visa or on the basis of a visa, unless this law or international contract provides otherwise. '"I made my amendment and now I'm going to read it. The title above article 25 is changed and is changed - Short stay, and in Article 25 words - stay up to 90 days is replaced by words - short stay, so I would say this in the end. The amendment I propose is far more constructive, Mr. Minister. Above Article 25. Instead of - The 90-day stay would be a short stay, and the very text of Article 25 of this Law would read as follows: ''The short stay of foreigners without a visa or on the basis of a visa, unless this law or international contract is defined differently. ''This amendment, Mr. Minister, aligns the text of the law with the provisions of the International Convention on Foreigners and other provisions of international law governing the issue of status, personal and other rights of foreigners. Each country has an autonomous right to allow a specific category of foreigners to stay longer or shorter in its country. Thus, during the war in the former Yugoslavia, EU countries took very restrictive measures towards citizens coming from the Balkans. In certain situations, the most rigorous measures, i.e. immediate eviction, were taken without the right of detention, not taking into account the social and other conditions of these citizens. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia must pay particular attention when it comes to persons coming from the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is about Serbs who come to the Republic of Serbia because of discrimination that is obvious, which consists of the following positions: the problem of obtaining personal documents, the return of property, houses, apartments, the return of pensions, the return of housing rights, the return of other property and social rights. Normally, by this amendment, if you adopt it, Serbs from the Republic of Croatia and BiH, who in some way have now become foreigners, would have more than 90 days to solve their problem. What is important, we know well that when you are to arrest citizens of Serbia, especially those on The Hague, you are doing it successfully. I ask you what have you done so far for those citizens who are in The Hague or do you consider them strangers, so you will not take much care of them? You well know who is there - real Serbs and Serbian heroes. Dr Vojislav Seselj went alone to defend Serbia's interests, my interests and all of you. That's why something stronger, and because of the citizens sitting here, who used to speak at our former great myths: Dr Vojislav Seselj lived, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4813	The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, without the intention of offending anyone in this room, I think no one is more competent to speak of the essence of this law on foreigners than it is Mr. Buha, who is, by the way, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in exile. Now I'm going to talk about some purely legal matters and about this amendment, and the one before and for the amendment that was still on the agenda on Saturday, because in the meantime I saw something that was not in line with the Rules of Procedure. When I mentioned Mr. Buh this way earlier, I can see that some of them laughed so boldly. I didn't mean to mention it, but that's exactly why I have to mention, when we talked here about some draft law, and Mr. Buha was talking about the law at the time, something was about strangers, he said that he would talk more about it when the foreign law was on the agenda, and then a colleague from the DS, who is not currently in the O.R., said, "When the foreign law is passed, and you're going to be a stranger." So much for sincere intentions and when it comes to this law and the government's intentions or at least the works of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First, I must return very briefly to the amendment of MP Dragan Stevanović to Article 11. It's a bill of law. I explained that amendment for him on Saturday. You remember the problems we had about whether we should start working under this law in particular, because it was the opposite of what was agreed in advance, and the consequence was that I did not notice at the time that the report of the Legislative Committee said that the Committee did not consider that a legally possible amendment to Article 11. The bill was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, I'm talking about the opinion of the Legislative Committee. How it is possible that the Committee found that Mr. Stevanovic's amendment is not legally possible, when the proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I would remind you that this amendment refers to whether the word "government" should be replaced by the word "Minister" because the government cannot do the affairs of the state administration, because the government is not a state body, the ministry is a state body. So, just this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the fact that the Government's bill is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and I don't think there's anyone in this room, any possible lawyer who's going to say anything different. The government has given some explanation as did you instead of keeping quiet, you are still stressing that the amendment is not legally possible, and if we respect the Rules of Procedure, it just means that it does not comply with the Constitution. Mr Ratkovic, I expect you to explain to us what this amendment does not comply with the Constitution, that you will read to us from the Constitution what state authorities are and see how much this amendment is in accordance with the Constitution. Mr. Dragan Zivkov and Sulejman Spah's amendments are almost identical, but they are on two different members. In the chapter - stay on foreigners, in Articles 24 and 25, it is said: "The stay of foreigners, within the meaning of this law, is up to 90 days, temporary stay or permanent stay". The amendments to both SRS have been requested and proposed to replace the words "staying for up to 90 days" with the words "short stay". First of all, for the sake of the public of Serbia, I must tell you, Mr Dacic, that you have to be dangerous to scold officials and translators of this law, because it's so badly done, it's really amazing. You say you do not accept this amendment because "it does not dispute that in the legislation of some countries this stay is called a short-term stay, the government does not believe that there is a stay for up to 90 days, in its legislation called a short-term stay". Whoever understands this sentence, I take off my hat. You further say, "Thus, before the convention called for in the reasoning is unknown, and the name for staying in the provisions of the foreign law cannot be considered as an element of importance for the status, personal and other issues of foreigners." So we don't mind that you, as a government, have a different approach to solving this problem, you have a different concept, you have the concept of the law that you've proposed. You're assessing whether amendments to the MPs are like that, and I'd say it's exclusively about amendments to the SRS MPs, that you can say you don't accept it, and it's a fine manner to write in half a sentence, which is what you're doing, which is why you don't accept it, but for God's sake, don't embarrass yourself like this. Is it possible that you haven't heard of the International Convention on Foreigners? The government tells us there is no such convention. Nicely explained, this amendment proposes harmonising the text of the laws with the provisions of the International Convention on Foreigners and other provisions of international law governing issues of status, personal and other rights of foreigners. The government informs us that it is unknown to this convention. What convention did you use to prepare the bill, then, if you are not the one that is essential to foreign matters in every country? So, I'd like to ask you to take care of it, now it's too late for this law, since we've got the government's opinion. This is not the first one, but on Saturday, I have several times drawn attention to the fact that the law, or reasoning of the law, uses some new word, some unknown words in Serbian, is obviously a translation. At least give some translators who know the Serbian language and let the Serbian parliament pass the law in such a text. Such sentences as I just read, which nobody understands, this first sentence that the government does not accept, does not dispute that this stay is used in legislation, the government does not consider that there is a stay for up to 90 days in its legislation to be called a short-term stay. Guys, we're playing here. I guess we're serious people, we're making laws, we're discussing laws, we're Serbian radicals, we have really good intentions. We want this parliament to begin to pass more finally laws that are in the interest of Serbian citizens. You're doing this kind of bran, back-to-back, you don't care, you know, you've got 126 MPs, they're going to vote for whatever you suggest. The fact that it has no bearing on neither the Constitution nor international public law, which is not in the interest of Serbian citizens, is none of your business.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4815	Fifteen minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4816	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4817	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on foreigners, wanting as well as all the other MPs of the SRS Parliament club to improve this bill and to convert the theory as easily as possible into practice and in some way try to change our theory to simplify and allow foreigners to stay in our country as we would in some foreign countries in the easiest and best possible way. For the sake of the citizens, I will read that I asked for a new position to be added in Article 27 after Article 4 which requires that the competent authority be obliged to issue a form for the applicant to issue a temporary stay authorisation form with a text in several languages. That existing position 5 becomes heading 6. There's a lot of reasons for this request. First of all, if we take it that in practice, any MUP that has the management of the city's foreign SUP, the foreigners who approach the foreign department, say, I'm going to point out from my municipality on the street. Savska, for the sake of submitting requests, although they pay an administrative fee covering all the costs of the procedure, they are referred to a request for a release which, otherwise, is printed by the Ministry of Contemporary Administration and costs three dinars, which they buy at a nearby agency, where thousands and 500 dinars pay for it, in fact, the agency charges them a form and a filling of the same, which also causes the foreigners to feel unhappiness and a violation of our country's reputation. So it's a very simple thing, in the UN service there are six world languages: Russian, Spanish, Chinese, Arabic, French and English. These are official world languages used to enter every country and information on any basis in any country. What's controversial here is that when a stranger comes into our country and fills out certain forms, the first thing that's bad, his form is charged. Another thing that's bad, complete form is someone else or a court interpreter, because he's charging him for translation, and he's charging him for conditions closer to our law, because a stranger doesn't know our laws. The next thing you know, it's a very bad thing, it can happen that he has a huge expense and that his request is denied. That's why we asked, on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club, for these requests to be made in several languages, in these six at least official world languages used and applied in UN services to foreigners. We didn't seek the language of an African tribe or I don't know any provinces in a country whose language we don't even know. Therefore, I do not know why the government has given such a response, it says - the government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the proposed amendment represents a kind of restriction on foreigners by prescribing the form in which a request for permanent residence can be submitted. I must remind you that this law has huge shortcomings and that the regulations themselves are the form in which the application can be made very bad, and it is seen even in the next article. What we have to do is introduce these six languages into the service of the MUP. In the same article, Article 27(5) shows - about the request in Article 5. 1 and 4 of this decision shall be decided by the competent authority, with the prior consent of the national authority (which is natural for the police to verify the authenticity and accuracy of these data), whose jurisdiction is to verify the justification of the request for a temporary stay, which is required within 15 days to declare the request. So, Minister, 15 days is enough to in the service of the MUP all these six languages and translate, analyse and return as an answer to the stranger, especially if the answer is negative. It may not comply with some of the provisions of Article 28. Next member. Here in the debate in principle, I have drawn attention to some members who have even hair with the Constitution, and that is especially when you see that member, what are the conditions for publishing. And here he says, one of the conditions is that he has enough means to support, that he's health insurance, etc. What came to me by the eye is the requirement that for the first temporary stay a stranger is obliged to attach an appropriate correction that he is not convicted. This is a huge problem with administration in countries where foreigners come from. It's not a problem in our administration. We're asking that we know who's here if he's convicted, but what's the procedure to get that paper out abroad? He's got to look from here... What's important is that the procedure, when any document is drawn in any other country, is a huge problem for the administration of foreigners, especially if it gets a negative solution. This is, then, a clear dissatisfaction, and in practice, a great dissatisfaction will be created. Especially investors and foreign managers who have been staying here for a while, so they apply for that time to be extended, and then they have to start over again. It's not prescribed by this law. They repeat this for the sake of citizens now, that citizens know that, when the document is removed, it must be certified by the court in Serbia as power of attorney, in the country of origin, someone in his name could obtain, more specifically, that certificate; that such power of attorney is supplied in Serbia by virtue of international use, and that his power of attorney in the country of origin should be translated into an interpreter for the Serbian language. That's why I asked for a multilingual form to be submitted to him. After obtaining in the country of origin, such a confirmation of the non-judgment of the same supply for the sake of international need, then to translate the same in Serbia's judicial language interpreter from the country from which the certificate comes. This is a huge task and obligation of a stranger who wants to extend his stay, or wants to stay for the first time, or wants to stay for the second time. This isn't just about this thing. In view of the reason for the refusal of the temporary stay requirements, it is not envisaged that the stranger is convicted, as we have already said, or condemnation is not an elimination condition. He may, for example, be rejected for something else, and he has obtained all the documentation, that he has not been convicted, and he has been rejected because, let's say, he has expired the importance of a valid passport. The case works, a foreigner, an investor or his manager accepts to present to our police a report in criminal records, if he is convicted in the country of origin, and there are those not only among businessmen, but also among citizens, especially for political crimes, which are interpreted in their own way in each country. So one thing here is essentially clear, if we connect Article 27 and 28, we have to enable a stranger to carry out his rights as easily as possible. We must not rely on the agencies, we must not rely on private court interpreters, who will make a practical translation from language to language so that he can submit any request, and all of this even get a negative answer. That's very important. It is clear that the conditions here are quite rigorous, and that they are not easy to meet because they are applied in other countries because of the famous white Schengen visa. So, the government's argument of refusing this amendment, Mr. Minister, is truly disastrous. Language can be interpreted very simply. Simply, our amendment does not come from that side, in order to determine the classification that foreigners will stay longer, which is not, which is not, which are not, but if you apply only the six official world languages that I have listed, we will have a lighter circumstance for each stranger, for more foreigners to come to our country, to be less crowded in police administrations where there is a reception of foreigners. That six papers are copied and divided by all cells, produced, that's no problem, and it's no cost. The modern administration charges these three dinars at the request of the MUP, and private agencies take from 1,500 to 2,500 dinars just because they will make a translation. A stranger who has already come or who wants to extend his stay is not obliged to know the Serbian language, but there is not even a stranger who at least knows one of these six languages. Every school teaches this, all six languages - Russian, French, Arabic, English, Spanish, Chinese. We may have a problem with that, but we have a 15-day deadline to respond to the request. In 15 days we can find not one translator, but all six if necessary. It's a burden on us in that sense, but it's an extenuating circumstance for as many foreigners to be present in our country as possible. That's why I submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS. I hope these answers to the government, that the selection of foreigners will be that way because they have this language, and they do not have one, will be negatively condemned by the ministry itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4819	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nenad Popovic, so Mr. Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4820	The presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, under Article 226, I still haven't received information, and I have dozens and dozens of phone calls about this gas price acquisition. As the DSS, we decided to come up with a proposal for all political parties in the Assembly to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia for information together -- why it had to come to this gathering and also by consensus that we were all looking together to reduce the price of gas. We think that this idea, together in the Assembly of all political parties, would be very good for all citizens to benefit from it. That way, this tension that exists today would be reduced, because indeed the most endangered will be the poorest layers. That's why I'm looking again for information, but we're also giving an initiative to all the political parties in the Assembly -- to ask the government together to urgently reduce this illogical price of gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4821	I'm finding no breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed. I give my word to Mr. Milorad Buha after the amendment. There's four minutes and 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will return to the previous story relating to the tenant rights that Serbs lost in the Republic of Croatia. It is almost 50,000 housing units belonging to the Serb population in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, to which Serbs today have no right. No apartment in social property, with Serbian tenants' rights, has been returned to Serbs. On the other hand, we have parallel rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All apartments and tenants' rights have been returned to the Serbs. It is similar in Slovenia, it is similar in Macedonia, etc., only in Croatia. I will now read to you the provisions of an international act signed in 2001, which is the Agreement on Succession, which was adopted by Croatia, which was ratified in the last 2004. It is also known why -- only to extend the process of returning the rights that Serbs had. Namely, Section G of the Agreement on Succession, relating to private property and acquired rights, Article 6 states - domestic legislation, each of the States of the Successors, which relate to the household law, will apply equally to persons who were nationals of the SFRY and who had such rights, without discrimination on any basis, such as sex, race, color, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, which are related to national minorities, property, birth or other status. I don't think there's a better international solution than this one. So the tenants' rights under the provisions of this agreement must be returned. Why aren't they returned? They were not returned because Serbs were discriminated against in Croatia. Before that, they were killed, expelled, and eventually, those who had the right to return did not achieve it. Here is what the provision also states that Croatia is referring to the return of rent rights, as well as all other property and social rights. It is an agreement on normalisation of the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia. I quoted this member, but I will point out other rights that Serbs do not exercise under the provisions of the Agreement on Sucession and the Agreement on the Normalisation of Relations. Article 7(1) states - foreign Contracting Parties will provide conditions for the free and safe return of refugees and displaced persons to their residences or to other places that they freely choose. Foreign Contracting Parties shall ensure that those persons are returned to their property, meaning that they all have rights, i.e. fair compensation. And look at this -- even a fair fee. No Serb in Croatia has received fair compensation. They don't even have the right, even people don't know, unfortunately the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia don't know, and they don't do anything to get back these 50,000. To put it into some real money, it's about four or five billion, maybe even more at current current current prices. It's not a small sum. Why aren't the Croatian authorities returning them? They are not returned because in 96 years, after the exile and exodus, and genocide over the Serb people, they sold them to Croatian citizens -- they have resigned to refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and now they do not have them in possession -- they do not have four or five billion to make up for Serbs (President: Time). Thank you. It's discrimination at work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4823	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4824	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted to Article 28(2) of the amendment to replace the words "Minister of Home Affairs, with the consent of the Minister of Health" with the words "Minister of Home Affairs, with the consent of the Ministry of Health". An explanation - in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, only state authorities have the right to lay down rules governing the exercise of certain rights, appearances and content of public documents, while this right does not belong to the managers of those bodies. I think this amendment should have been accepted because it is said in an explanation that it belongs to institutions, such as the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, not that it belongs to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment and this member are very serious because when a stranger enters the territory of Serbia he in some way not only will he have health insurance, but in some ways he is being followed. Followed by an example that happened ten years ago in my family, where there was armed robbery and where there were fatalities, but there were also injuries to those who committed such crimes. They could not go far, but they could not normally apply to the health center, because they would have been discovered very quickly, but they had the opportunity to apply to a private health care facility that had not yet functioned at that time, but there were also those institutions that were private, medical clinics that were in the territory of the Sabic municipality, where they had given them certain medical care, or rehabilitated and their consequences. I must honestly tell you that until today, although there was a certain assumption, there was no detection of those faces, which were somehow followed from the entrance from the border crossing to the territory of the Sabbath municipality. You can see for yourself that this article, and this amendment of mine, is very serious because it solves a significant item, which also releases the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Health at some point, where it goes to the ministry's jurisdiction. In that case, you can say, so if someone is good with one or another minister, they can still exercise those certain rights. What I can also say is that a large number of refugees in Serbia's territory today cannot exercise these rights, i.e. to have their health insurance. I was personally present when the evasive persons had to return, that they were not given adequate medical assistance because they did not have health insurance, which I believe is Serbia and the government, and the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Health in some way to provide these evasive, or displaced persons, who, even if they are in these refugee centres, are very difficult to spend these days without certain material assistance from this society. Also, we must note that one large number of these people who have escaped are seeking citizenship. It is also very difficult to get citizenship, because there are great peripetities to make them happen, i.e. to become citizens of their Serbian queen. I think that the health insurance of persons entering Serbia should be cared for by the embassy, i.e. that all costs related to the insurance of citizens arriving in Serbia should also be monitored through the embassy, which in many cases is not realized because there is probably a large number of those who are illegally staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I was talking about NGOs on Saturday. A large number of these NGOs, whether on purpose or not, are not reported or one number of these citizens are registered to the embassies to perform certain tasks, but one part of them is not reported at all. He doesn't sign up because at that point, they'd probably have their stay followed. That's one big problem, I have to tell you, since the 1980s, when Kosovo and Metohija were at that time a large litter of intelligence services, which have worked since then for many intelligence services in Europe and America. And then, at that time, when the borders of Yugoslavia and the borders of Serbia were well guarded, there was an illegal stay or legal stay, but I say legal in such a way that not everyone was applying, but a certain number was only reported, and the rest was illegally staying in Serbia's territory. I must honestly tell you, speaking to people from that time on security, they also said that the border of the Republic of Serbia was one of the easiest or least secure, where it could have been easily reached on its territory, passed or entered at various border crossings, such as border crossings connected to Albania. You know very well that there was an agreement in school, that they came from Albania to the KIM territory, that teachers came to give lectures. It happened that these very people, who came as scientific workers, were in fact a group of many intelligence services, where they provided a passage through them, and the knowledge of what was happening in Serbia's political, economic and cultural life at the time. That we do not speak now between border crossings, between the temporarily busy KIM, because we hope that one day and that Serbian territory will be free and that this entire world attack, where many want or where many aims to become an independent state, will not happen, but that this area that today is least secure about security, the passage of all possible goods, and I think that, God forbid, that it will happen, is exactly terrorism. In this case right now, even then, Europe is kind to them and when it is on their side, it is likely that they do not yet know their devastating fact by these Albanian organisations, which can endanger these countries through terrorism. The door and windows of this house called Serbia have been opened. I believe that by destroying the army, which began in 2000, when Boris Tadic became military defence minister, then systematic destruction and military equipment began, and the normal and importance of military insurance for the Serbian border and Serbian territory. Now the police are trying to provide borders in some way, i.e. because there was probably a theory in the DS vision that Serbia would enter the EU and become a member and become part of the EU family. It goes to Serbia not to need an army, i.e. major military expenditures are needed to normally buy modern military equipment and to preserve the military security and military industry that we were known for. I remember well, ladies and gentlemen, in the '80s, the military industry in Kragujevac was one of the, not to say the strongest, but one of the strongest in Europe. When I graduated college, I was supposed to join that institution, but I didn't, and that's why I was able to see what its production programs were. But I wonder what today is about this military industry and where Serbia is today. It is the most painful and difficult thing that falls on every Serbian citizen, it is not difficult to separate certain contributions from him, if these contributions are important to ensure the safety of the country, which is threatened today, because I think that sometimes when we laughed and talked about what Albania has from military equipment, I wonder what Serbia has today. Not to mention the various affairs that, at least as far as military industries, military facilities are concerned, especially after the bombing, where they were housed military equipment and military equipment, they're gone. That's why I'm asking, that's why I'm saying in my statement that the arrival of illegal foreigners in Serbia's territory today is very possible, while as far as those who regularly apply are concerned, they are under the control of state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4825	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Is there another minute and 15 seconds for the SRS? Nobody. Thank you. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 28th amendment together. The government has accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee deems the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Mladen Grujic submitted the title above article 30th. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Milorad Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31. The proposal for a law on foreigners, and Article 2, where I suggested that the words "the Minister of Home Affairs, with the consent of the Minister of Education and the Minister of Science" be replaced by "the Ministry of Home Affairs, with the consent of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science in charge". The reasons are in line with the view of the SRS that jurisdiction in this case belongs to the ministry, not to the minister. You said in response to the government - the government does not accept this amendment for the same reason as the amendment to Article 15(2). It's a bill of law, but I'm not gonna waste any time on this right now. We have more important things, and in any case, when you accept and understand one day that you have to respect the Constitution, change all the legal regulations and accept the factual attitude and interpretation of the SRS. Let's go back to the Serbian tenants' rights in Croatia. We have to talk about them because it's damaged over 50.00 homeowners. It is a large amount of money, I said about 4-5 billion euros and above all the rights acquired by Serbs, and only by the criminal policies of the Croatian state do these rights not return. Here's what he says about all this UN High Commissioner. It talks about the Sarajevo Declaration -- the Sarajevo Declaration is one agreement between the three states, BiH, Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro at the time, which defines the conditions and way of returning the tenants' rights. I quote what the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said: "In order to close the refugee chapter in the region, the European Commission, the OSCE and the UN High Commissioner in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro initiated the Sarajevo process, which resulted in the signing of the Sarajevo Declaration by representatives of these countries in January 2005. The states have thus committed to drawing up their action plans, however, some of the identified obstacles have not been removed because the signatories have failed to agree their action plans and resolve the remaining problems, primarily the problem of the taken-off housing rights in Croatia. ''The UN High Commissioner for Refugees identified Serbia as an important country in a world where there is a long-standing refugee crisis. Under its patronage in early 2008, a high-level meeting between Croatia and Serbia will be held, which should give a new boost to the process of finding permanent solutions for refugees and mobilise the assistance of the international donor community in this regard. Here is a convenient opportunity, primarily for the current government, to make clear in December of this year both to the international community and to Croatia that their obligations were under international law, signed international agreements, bilateral agreements and everything resulting from the provisions of international law. Household law is acquired, inalienable law. It's got to come back. What did the Croats do? In 95-96, Croats, for a part of the population that escaped from Republika Srpska, passed a law on special state protection and, in fact, the law once again confirmed the withdrawal of tenant rights. In the course of 92, special state regulations, the parliament's rules, turned this household law into state law and shared apartments, primarily Serbs' apartments, to their citizens, who bought them at the price of benified or made them available to BiH citizens who had fled to Croatia. To Serbs, by legislation, on the other hand, judicial proceedings, administrative measures have been deprived of that right and has never been returned. No apartment in social property, to which Serbs had tenant rights, has been returned. Only Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. That's why I'm warning the government, here's a good chance, you have a relationship normalisation agreement, which says that all the property will be returned, you have a conflict agreement, you have a Sarajevo Declaration, which has even defined a return within two years of all tenants' rights. The landscapes expect you to give them back their rent rights. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution has notified this, far beyond what I am saying today, all state authorities, from the President of the Republic to the Commissioner for Refugees, have requested intervention. She visited all international missions in Serbia and pointed to the problem of returning to tenant rights. It would be appropriate, God-awful, to meet the refugee population, to return the tenant rights, so that the Serbs who were right to do so can enjoy that right. What will the Serbs do? The part will come back, the part will cash, the funds will be transferred here. The interest of Serbia is that the funds that Serbs receive from the return of housing rights are poured into the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. They're not small funds. We're talking about a few million donations, a few million credit lines, this is about billions. Make it possible for the general well-being of the Serbian state and Serbian nation. We will all benefit from this together, and that right belongs to us according to international law and national law, both by international agreements and by divine law. The second thing I want to talk about is the pension rights of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. That's very important. It's also a few billion euros. About 60,000 pensioners left Croatia, exiled, fled. They did not receive pensions from 91 to 1995, one category, another category from 1991 to 1997. According to the government of Republika Srpska in persecution, it is a sum of between 1.5 billion and 2 billion euros that Serbs have not received on this basis. We have a lot of categories to add to that. I'll only mention a few, because I won't have time. It is the category of population that, according to the provisions of the Social Security Act between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, entered the administrative process of obtaining pensions, whether acquired here in Serbia, started and finished here, or started mixed in Croatia, and continued here. It's a number of 40,000 applicants. All 15 grand has been solved, and 24-25 thousand has not been solved. People who have obtained the right to retire cannot get it because Croatian state authorities are not doing anything to end the proceedings and people who have acquired the right to retire enable them to enjoy the pension, which is appropriate to legal norms. I asked the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in this House on 14 September 2007. He says: "In the administrative procedure of the PIO Fund there are 20,000 items relating to the exercise of the right under the Law on PIO Serbs of Krajisnik from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, which have been expelled and have exercised a certain right from the PIO, but because of the lack of data from the PIO of the Republic of Croatia, this fund cannot complete the procedure. This violates a number of legal regulations, in particular the Law on PIO of the Republic of Serbia, the General Administrative Procedure Act and a number of other legal regulations. These procedures take years with uncertain outcomes. Serbia, which has been expelled from Republika Srpska and Croatia, has achieved the right to retire, live in Serbia, cannot go to Croatia, but they do not end procedures, which cause material damage, so I'm interested in what you're going to do to solve this problem? "Here is the response from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: "The agreement between the SRJ and the Republic of Croatia on social security was signed on 15 September 1997, it entered into force on 1 May 2003. This agreement regulates the entire area of social security, PIO, health insurance and unemployment insurance. In the area of PIO, among other things, the protection and protection of acquired rights from PIO is guaranteed by the provision of a single legal system of the SFRY until 8 October 1991, but rather, the insurance holder of that Contracting State will be entitled to continue to pay them off. "That's what I was saying about that group that left Croatia, it was effectively expelled from Croatia from 1991 to 1995. It further says: "PIO law which was implemented from 8 October 1991 to 1 May 2003, in accordance with the legal regulations of a single Contracting State, with the inclusion of a pension internship completed under the regulations of another Contracting State, is re-established under official duty, in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement. The PIO Fund, originally granted the right to retire and, on the basis of the training completed on the territory of another Contracting State, shall cover with the Fund of another Contracting State the procedure for recalculating the pension. The Fund of the Second State Contracting Party will determine its part of the pension in proportion to the pension that has been completed with it, so-called. A proportional part, which is followed by the fund that launched the procedure. This way, the amount of pension shall be recalculated directly to the user from the first day of the next month following the end of the month in which the re-determination procedure has been initiated. "Let's see what the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy says now: "In line with the above, the Republic Fund for PIO employees has launched about 15,000 retirement procedures, while the Croatian PIO carrier has launched around 9,000 procedures. Despite a number of problems in the pension recalculation process, in many cases there are no data on pension internships, earnings, insurance bases, residence, as well as other data with war on affected areas. It is noted that the holders of the mandatory PIO and the professional services of this fund in day-to-day phone contacts solve those problems that arise in the application of the Agreement. "I repeated the question during this year. I got an answer from the Ministry, he's longer, but the number of 24,000 that was listed here remained at 24,000, in a year. It's not just for a year, it's in a few years; 24,000 pensions per Croatian legislation, the average monthly fee is about 400 euros, multiply it by 24,000, and times 12, you get over 100m euros. You multiply that by the number of years, as many users as possible of pensions, if they got it, they'd be users, denied. Multiply that by seven, eight, ten years, like who. Now take, given that we are mortal people, that our life span is limited, the one above determines how much of these funds will be lost, or will remain to the Croatian state. The Croats do it very cleverly. The accident is in the Serbian state, the accident is in the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, which tolerate all this. Imagine if the Croats were in such a position as the Serbs, they'd throw an atomic bomb at us. It's my responsibility. Best example to serve us; it's been 15 minutes, I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4827	I just need to remind you, Mr. Buha, of the provision of Article 103. This time I let you talk to the end and longer, but the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. You were talking for one and a half minutes. I understand the importance of the questions, but in the end it turned into a conversation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and we have Mr. Home Secretary here, and I'm sure he realized, at the very beginning, what the point of this presentation is. So that's it. And now, on the basis of Article 85, I'm setting a break by 15.00 and I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some information before we continue our work. First, today we will work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure until the end of the agenda, due to the importance of the agenda, which will be at 18 hours on the agenda. We've been asked by RTS, and I've made consultations with the parliamentary groups to take one break from 18 to 18.25, to include RTS in the transfer of book fairs. I would like to tell you that tomorrow we will be working from 15 hours, given that a large number of MPs wanted to participate in the Great School Hour event in Šmarice, Kragujevac. So we've been working since 3:00 tomorrow. Mr. Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4829	According to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. I'd like to take advantage of the presence of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Police. It's not even far from this topic, and I won't be long, maybe 30 seconds. I want to ask one question that I believe he can quickly find an answer. Namely, I received information from the top of the executive government, and Mr Dacic himself was the top of the executive government, and I received information from the top of the executive government that after visiting Minister Shojgu Serbia and entering the Russian state security at the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia sought and received an accelerated citizenship procedure for the state of Norway. I don't know about initials, but you can think about who the minister is. We know that a government minister worked at the Norwegian embassy and at our embassy in the Kingdom of Norway. I'm just wondering if that's true. It wouldn't be the first minister to have the citizenship of another state, but it's an interesting moment where he gets that citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4830	Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ambassador Vukovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, respected citizens, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 37. Proposal for a foreign law. The proposed amendment provides for a new position 2 to be added after Article 1, which reads: "The ministry is obliged to issue a form for the applicant to issue an authorisation form for a permanent stay, with a text in multiple languages". The existing positions 2,3,4,5,6,7,8 and 9 become points 3,4,5,6,7,8,9 and 10. To explain the idea of an amendment like this. It is known that in Europe there is a very restrictive policy towards asylum seekers, towards foreigners, etc., and we here in Serbia, at least you who aim for Europe and such a rapid step, when you make such laws that at least install something good that will show these foreigners that there is a way and democracy and understanding for all types and categories of population. We use Cyrillic letters in Serbia, and as much as I love this letter, and I think that it is one of the most beautiful and best in the world, this Cyrillic of ours, the fact is that we must in some way show that we are open to other people who do not understand our language, whose Cyrillic letter is very difficult to understand, and for this reason I suggest that in several foreign languages, world-famous and those who are mostly used, such a single form is published. In particular, I would like to stress that we should jump off in a way from the Republic of Croatia, which in all such proposals has a very rigid view that only in their new Croatian language forms can be written, which is also one discrimination against the rest of the population and especially with foreigners, which they consider both Serbs, Roma and all others in the world. I especially want to say that the usual thing is that on the packaging of anything that is branded in the world, and Serbia is branded, and this law is branded by the adoption here, it writes in multiple languages a manual for use. That is why I suggest you add this second position as an amendment that will facilitate various asylum seekers, for whom we Serbian radicals have in time indicated that, due to the problem of restrictive policy in Europe, they will rush to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4832	The word is Mr. Radisa Ilic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for an amendment submitted by my colleague Slobodan Vukovic to Article 37. Proposal for a foreign law. Article 37 regulates the issue of permanent residence of foreigners. Unfortunately, Serbs who fled to Serbia 17 years ago by fleeing Ustasha and today are in some way foreigners, although they have refugee status or even the status of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Even in spite of the demands made to win citizenship, which they have been waiting for for years, their status remains unchanged, and when they get it, other problems arise. They're here, they work, they live with us, they create families, but when the time comes that they need confidence about citizenship to get a document, and mostly for their children, there are problems. There a man feels not only deprived of his motherland, but also rejected and unprotected. Let's just see how the Croatian state treats the Croats wherever they are, and only if it is the Croats who came to Croatia from central Bosnia or from another area that has been affected by the war. And Serbs, in Croatia, they took their apartments, houses, properties, even pensions, and treated them here in Serbia as if they were not nations. Is it normal and is it according to the law that a Serbian refugee from Republika Srpska in 1993, I am talking about a specific case, living in Paracino together with his wife, and who got our citizenship, which is the family of Zdravko Dukic, and their children were born in Paracina in 97 and 98, is it normal for this man to pay a fee of four thousand dinars for enrolment in the citizenship of his two children, who, I repeat, were born in Paracino, or in Serbia? Here's an example of discrimination. Mr. Dacic, you're the Home Secretary and you can stop what's happening to our brothers being banished from their hearth. That's why someone can feel like a stranger in Serbia, even though it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4834	Mrs. Verica Radeta, also after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly to return to my colleague Milorad Buha's amendment to Article 31, and we have had several amendments with the same text and I think they will still be there during the day, and it is about changing the words that the Minister in charge of Home Affairs can adopt some sublegal act, because it has to be done by the competent ministry, it doesn't even matter which ministry it is. Since there is no understanding for this amendment, I have firmly decided, Mr. Minister, to bring you to a more familiar right and to read you Article 136 of Section 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "The affairs of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other authorities of the state administration laid down by law. "I don't think a second explanation regarding this constitutional provision is even necessary. It doesn't make sense to me. It's even amazing to me that you don't accept these amendments. I don't understand such a lack of desire that the law we bring is at least in accordance with the Constitution. We also talked about the content of the law in principle, and when it comes to the discussion of details. You can see that we have submitted a large number of amendments, that all amendments are very concrete and with our serious intention to fix the text of the law, first and foremost because this law applies in the most part to this category, which is regulated by Article 37, these are once-in-a-lifetime foreigners, these are people who came to Serbia as refugees or exiled persons and who still today have many problems in the state of Serbia. So we think it would be good if this law, although we also have a Law on Refugees, which is only bad, we talked about when it was on the agenda, but it would be good if at least this law, which I say applies mainly to these people, to make sure that by applying this law to these people, our fellow countrymen who have been tortured to come to the queen of Serbia, because all Serbs who are born outside of Serbia, Serbia see Serbia as their queen. That's how we've all experienced it, because I've been a part of you literally since we knew about ourselves. The team is a greater disappointment to those citizens, Serbs, who, unfortunately, came here with refugee status and exiled faces. I don't know if I need to remind you all of the still terrible conditions in various collective centers. It was joined by Serbs displaced from Kosovo and Metohija. Authorities always have nice words when talking about that category of people, and when there's something concrete to be done for these people, then no state and no help from the state. We Serbian radicals have always truly advocated helping these people and we are doing it wherever possible and done it. I remind you of the settlements built on the territory of the municipality of Zemun, of Busije, Grmovac, Blue Horizont, of the settlement in Temerin, where Serbian radicals were in power at the time these people came to Serbia. We always reminded that at that time every municipality did what they did, for example, the Zemun municipality and the Temerin municipality, we in Serbia today would not have any residential refugee space. So now we have cases of various NGOs or governments in the world giving local self-government certain resources to provide housing for refugees and exiled persons. Then we have the most common, I don't want to say every time, but most often the abuse of local officials. Unfortunately, those people who need to get those apartments must first pay someone a commission, then only then exercise their right to do so. One of the problems these people have, these are really life problems -- solving housing issues, but one of the problems is certainly correspondence, i.e. communication with authorities or with local self-governments from the former Yugoslav republics from which they came here. I don't know if you know that no act, no request from Serbs, refugees or exiled persons, even if it has been given citizenship in the meantime, and if it should be referred to an act, a request for a certain act, or documents in any place on the territory of the current Republic of Croatia, or even on the territory, means Republika Srpska, and so does BiH, all but Republika Srpska, every request here must be translated from Serbian into Croatian, or what they call the Bosniak language in BiH, and then that translation must have the seal of the apostol. For all of this, taxes are paid, all of which means walking from municipality to court. That's why we've proposed these amendments both to Article 37 and to that previous member, because we know what our people's experience is that they're talking to some authorities in those former Yugoslav republics, and that's why we wanted to have a different relationship here, that these people don't have to be harassed. You know, a lot of Serbs, unfortunately, living in territory, say, Croatia, were not in a position to use a Cyrillic letter, and now the problem is because in Serbia, the Cyrillic letter is official, and that is fine, there is no other way or should not be, but we cannot, however, fill out an old woman or an old man who learned only that Latin letter and only that Croatian language, then Croatian-Serbian, so called, can't make it impossible by law to fill out a particular form, that a particular form cannot be submitted to achieve rights that I repeat, otherwise very limited and very restrictive when these people are concerned. A special story is when it comes to persons who still have refugee IDs, with which they have virtually no rights. (President: Time. I'm done, thank you, I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4836	There's a word Mr. Free Maras, advertised by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4837	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, or Mr. Vice President, you spoke to us a few hours ago trying to introduce the topic we were talking about and show that the Government, which is currently the Government, is not responsible for what happened in the previous years. We agree with that. We've been trying to address you as Deputy Prime Minister all morning. Now I'm going to tell you what Resolute Minister Mr. Skundric has done, that is, where his responsibility is and where your responsibility is, and where is the responsibility of the entire government. On 22.8th of this year, the employer and NIS trade unions signed a social programme for NIS. That day, it was passed to the Serbian government, Minister Skundric, the resolute energy minister. After that, we had an oil-gas deal debate here in September, a ratification of the gas agreement, in which I underline, there is not a single word about the social programme. I say, 13,000 NIS employees are irresponsible, inaction with the government, whose vice president you are, and resolute minister, Mr. Skundric, are left without a social programme. So, the social programme was signed, set up and arranged by the employer and unions, three or four unions as many as there are in NIS. So, if we can say that the government of Vojislav Kostunica is first responsible for inaction when it comes to those 50% of Serbia's share of the gas contract, we can now say that your government is indeed responsible for why the social programme, which provides 13,000 employees in NIS in one way, has not passed on to the government, has not been agreed, because in an oil-gas agreement with Russia's Gazprom, we do not have a single word on the social programme. I underline, if Mr. Skundric for the simple reason that he was given the wrong information answered incorrectly to the question we asked him a month and a half ago, I think this question must have an adequate answer, since he is currently a resolute minister and you are the Deputy Prime Minister. What happened to that agreement between the employer and the union, which is why it didn't go through in the government, and why did the workers run out of the social programme, who are employees of the NIS? I repeat by an oil-gas agreement with Gazprom not a single word on the social programme is foreseen.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4838	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is for Miss Natasa Jovanovic:
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I believe that you did not pay attention to the connection of this member - the refusal of the requirements for permanent residence, with a criminal procedure brought against the persons requested by it, because we would have entered into the serious gazing of the Constitution, or of Article 17 and the position of foreigners in our country by our fellow Serbian radical Momir Markovic, on behalf of the SRS. Mr. Markovic, in this sense, is, of course, cautious about the fact that in our country's territory, as you know, they live and various spy agencies and some that pose a latent threat to our country, through arms trafficking, people, that I am not talking about all those situations in the south of our country, in that part of the municipalities bordering our southern province of KIM. It is now impossible for us to, because of the fact that the state has to follow and be careful about such cases, we are entering constitutional norms and we do not respect the presummation of innocence, because you yourself know that the fact that someone under official duty has been charged with something, or is being prosecuted against it, is here at point 2, and this requires Mr Markovic to be deleted, therefore - who is convicted of a criminal offence for which he is being prosecuted by official duty, it is okay and it is acceptable to reject such a request, "or if such a criminal act is initiated". Except in the Serbian Hague case, which was also designed to be tried only by Serbs and to kill Serbs, and to be tortured, and to write a false indictment and this shameful verdict to Mr. Martic a few days ago -- and no one in the country voiced it. It wasn't allowed for people, here's what Mr. Buha will tell you, that no one responded to the press conference when it came to this latest Hague scandal. Only, therefore, in this ad hoc ad hoc, the quasi-judgment is given to people before the actual day of pronunciation and find guilty, because Serbs, guilty of being "witnesses" by Natasa Kandic, at the invitation of Zoran Djindjic, villages with other anti-Serbs and charges or because of the appearance of such "witnesses". But very often, there are also some people who are mildly retarded or your experts, and all the spies and agents who were working here, Mr Dacic, after Serbia for years after the overthrow of power and after a five-octobaric coup. We cannot be like them, who allegedly advocate respect for international conventions, human rights and conventions that regulate the position of foreigners and their treatment in a country -- bilateral agreements and all that we, as one state that wants equal co-operation with all normal people in the world, with those who do not want us evil, but good, to co-operate. It's about those who come from countries that run a highly anti-Serbian policy and act that way. However, we must respect our Constitution and say, yes, you have been charged with a criminal offence, but you are innocent until the moment it is proven. Now I can tell you not to put pressure, of course, on the judicial authorities or on the larger ones that are going to deal with it, but here you are the Minister of the Interior, and the Republic Public Prosecutor is probably thinking something in these past months and by day, now I can really do more than 99,999, but there is not a single draft, and that anyone can suspect, even someone who is political right now, just because he needs it, supports these SRS apostates. I'm not going to use the term "citizens," because citizens are honest people, ladies and gentlemen, and this is something else. When you say "citizen," you mean some man who's honest and respects everyone's respect. On this basis, now that Mr Krasic has taken two criminal charges to the authorities -- for abuse of his official position, which is taking credit without the approval of the party authorities of 600,000 euros, with interest and much more, done by Tomislav Nikolic and stealing parliamentary mandates. But, respecting the presummation of innocence, but I already know because I am an active participant in what was revealed after that failed coup, that sometimes, although justice may be slow, but it is available -- that man must be responsible for what he did. It's undeniable. There is a law, and if the judges want to judge by our country's Criminal Code and take into account everything he has suggested, and that's only one part of it, of course, that's how it's going to open, Mr. Krasic, that's how it has to be. I can't say about anyone out there or you who we don't know anything about or we're not familiar with the fact or the legal thing or the dispute that someone has and we're going to tell them, yeah, we're going to reject you for that request and you can't stay here. Mr Dacicu, you know there are many people in our Serb people's struggle, this will be spoken by Mr Buha, found guilty by the Croatian Ustasha authorities. These are people who had to defend and be wounded with their naked lives, and suffer their loved ones and their own doorstep, both in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. They are blamed, or they are already in advance guilty, but they are being prosecuted before these so-called county courts in the Ustasha state. You will now say against this someone they are there because he is a Serb, and that is the only reason why our people died, that he kept his faith and his doorstep, he can't stay here all the time, to get a stay. We will have the same case, unfortunately, for a slow start, but if we do not stand vigorously as a state in the defence of the Serb people in Montenegro, we will also have cases with Serbs from Serbia's Montenegro. There are several cases like this. Today I found out about one, you know, and you, too, reminded me of my colleague Ruzic in our informal conversation. So, if people who stepped in defense of the Serbian state in Montenegro rebelled against it ten and more years ago, under investigation or have been charged by the separatist regime, some people cannot go to their hometown and where they were born. They're people who already have maybe more advanced years or younger people. Now such incredible pressure is being put on. Mr Dacicu, ask this unfortunate man, Yusuf Kalamperovic, when you see yourself next in the process of double citizenship negotiations, every night on weekends in cafes, on discotheques, on the Montenegrin coast. What are they doing here? To scare the people? There's an informal curfew in place. Why was our president harassed a few days ago in Podgorica, young Mr. Vlado Vukovic? Only because he welcomed his friend from a car in downtown Podgorica in his way of expressing his belonging to the Serbian people and protecting what the Serbs in Montenegro have done in such a way. What's supposed to happen now? Those separatists, they bullied him for six or seven hours, they didn't beat him, but they told him what you were going to do here, get out of here, go to Serbia if you like him so much, we don't need you, you came here to spread Sheschel's ideas and great heart. He said no, this is as much my country as yours. What our people say to the end, which they are both, which they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who We will stay and fight, but there will be such cases that for these political reasons criminal charges have been filed, as is the case in the Ustasha state of Croatia, so will so. What's the difference between what Milo or Mesic or Sanader is doing? Not at all. And then that people have to save their naked lives and their heads to come and we say, we will deny you a stay because, by official duty, the police or the government in Montenegro have brought a criminal case against you and you are a persona non grata in the state of Serbia. That is why it is very important, especially because unfortunately we will be in a position to protect, above all, our Serbs, to accept this amendment by Mr Markovic. I think there's enough arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4840	Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Buha, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4841	Since the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior are present here, I will point to certain problems that foreigners have and also people who have had refugee status and in a certain way, because of the failure of state authorities, in violation of the provisions of the Refugees Act, have lost the property of refugees and become foreigners under the provisions of this law. Its interpretation is based on the provisions of the Refugees Act, which defined in Article 18 the way and conditions of losing refugee status. Article 18. The Refugee Act says: The refugee loses the right laid down by this law if 1) that incorrect data when applying for refugee property or when exercising individual rights of the refugee is submitted; 2) does not report changes in the capacity of refugees that are of significant impact on the exercise of refugee rights or do not report a change of residence; 3) refuses under the conditions laid down for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to carry out a working or other prescribed obligation; 4) refuses to offer accommodation or accommodation or refuses to reside permanently or temporarily in a place in which life conditions are provided for him. In practical application, the Commissioner for Refugees in all situations when a person or refugee gets assurance of citizenship and asks for the issue of an I.D. must return the refugee book, and at that moment his refugee property is extinguished, and at that moment he lost refugee status. In Article 18. The refugee law has no basis for such a provision anywhere. So, you're just directly involved here. This procedure goes through the Refugee Commissioner, but you, as a state body, cannot violate the Refugees Act in this case because no provision, nor does this Article 18 give the Commissioner for Refugees the opportunity to take that property away. According to the Convention on Refugee Status, refugee status can be taken away from the moment he received citizenship from the Republic of Serbia and is permanently returning to the Republic of Croatia, but there is no permanent return to the Republic of Croatia. Croatia does not allow that. We said that only 5% of refugees returned to Croatia. Now we're going to show it through examples of how the number of refugees was moving. In 1996, there were about 650,000 refugees, in 1998, 715,000, in 2000, about 505,000, in 2001, 450,000, in 2005 107,000 and this year about 96,000-97.000, but the number decreased. In almost 95% of the cases, the right to refugee status of a refugee man was seized the moment he got his ID card, and we don't have a foothold in the law. That's what I mentioned when we talked here about the Law on Citizenship, the Law on I.D. and the Law on Travel Documents. That flaw has to be removed. The refugee status is internationally regulated. It can, given that we have ratified this Convention on the Status of Refugees, we have a material law that defines the ways, conditions of acquisition and withdrawal of that right, so the state authorities cannot do this violation of the legal provisions. In the end, it is one discriminatory measure according to a specific category of population that puts these citizens in a second-rate position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4842	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word for Mrs. Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I'm going to finish what I just said, but I've wasted my time, so I didn't want to break the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to refugee status, Mr. Buha now spoke and read the provisions of the Refugees Act, which, unfortunately, are not applied. The end of refugee status is something that is absolutely absolutely, so in practice, depends on officials in the municipality working in the Department of Refugees, as a refugee commissioner in every local self-government. People who still have the status of refugees or exiled persons today, they are the mahogany of old people, sick, hard-moving, even immobilized often, and they are asked to come every two years to the local self-government and to apply for it, so it is sent to the Commissioner for Refugees, and after a certain number of days they have to come again, and sometimes three times, it depends on how long it takes these Commissioners to deliver that solution. So when they get that solution, with that solution, they have to go to the M.O.P. Department, get a new refugee ID, and it usually solves that officer there. I have a lot of examples from my wider family, that people lose refugee status, and they don't meet any of the conditions laid down by law. This is a problem that Serbia has not taken care of, I have already said this before, never before, and it does not lead today. But that is why in this Article 50, which I have submitted to on behalf of the SRS Group, you have a completely different attitude towards a permanent stay, Article 50 is within the framework of a permanent stay at the shelter and you are not careful enough there. Who can all be in a shelter from a person who has the status of a stranger? You know what happens, not only in Serbia, but in the environment and in the EU countries, you know that it's current and drug trafficking, and trafficking in white slavery, and when it comes to Serbia, they do all kinds of intelligence services, they do Saiovci, and I don't know who arrests people, they go after Serbia. A few days ago, a man who looked like Ratko Mladic was arrested, so he was released when it was found not to be Ratko Mladic, so they asked Mr Ljajic if the state authorities knew the location of Ratko Mladic and how could such a failure happen to arrest a man who did not? Mr Ljajic said in that interview - we do not know if Mladic is in Serbia, we do not know where he is, and this man who was arrested, we have received a tip from foreign services that it is Ratko Mladic. So everyone in Serbia can do whatever they want, I mean those who come under different circumstances, and we don't have adequate protection for our citizens, our people from those who come to Serbia. In article 50, you predicted that staying at the shelter would last until a foreigner was forced to leave. The time of stay at the shelter can't be longer than 90 days. SRS MPs think it would be more appropriate to cut that deadline to 30 days. It's unnecessary for someone to stay 90 days or say no more than 90 days. Now I'm going to quote this article, so I can explain it in every way and make it clear to the public what we're talking about here. You say in the bill that after the expiry of the term set out in Article 1, a foreigner may be extended his stay at the shelter, so he may even extend, if his identity has not been established. So where does that stranger come from and who is that stranger if you're not able to do 90 days, and we suggest in 30 days, to determine identity. Is someone working on it or just catching a man, putting him in a shelter and no one's taking care of it anymore? It's just impossible, if anyone's involved, that you need more than 90 days. You're saying if he deliberately interferes with an emergency distance. So how can someone deliberately interfere with an emergency distance? What are the state authorities doing, what are the police representatives doing? What he's saying is, I'm not gonna walk away and he's distracting the forced distance. This is really something that there couldn't have been a place in this law. You're still saying - if he submitted an asylum application during the mandatory distance procedure in order to avoid forced distance. Here we can only say for this point that it can be, but no longer than 90 days, that it can be there for a maximum of 90 days. It's the only thing that can be accepted, that it takes a longer period than this, but not proposed by law, but by our amendment. The total stay time at the shelter cannot be longer than 180 days. Now I'm asking you, if the total time at the shelter can't be more than 180 days, what if you don't determine that person's identity in 180 days? If you haven't established him for 90 days, there is a serious risk of not being established for 180 days. What are you doing with that man then? What happens to that stranger or if he deliberately interferes with the forced distance for 180 days? Then what's going on, what's the legal solution? Do you take him by the ears and lead him across the border? It's inconclusive when a state authority sets itself on such comfortable deadlines, and then it's no wonder that employees of state authorities don't do their job on time enough. We must regulate every area by law, so that the law forces every employee in the state authority or local self-government, so above all, all those who are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or those who pay Serbian citizens out of their pockets, at least by law we can make them have to be effective, do their job seriously and responsibly. Someone who's in charge of some stranger at the shelter, he knows, he doesn't care, 180 days is how long he's gonna hold that man, and maybe the man isn't even in the shelter, he's gonna hold him there and he's not gonna do anything for 180 days, but he's gonna say two days before he says he doesn't meet any of these conditions. Next, you say - a foreigner whose identity has been identified will be fired from the shelter if legitimately expected not to be able to force himself away. Believe me, this is quite an incomprehensible formulation. A foreigner who has been identified will be fired from the shelter and where he will go, if legitimately expected not to be forced away. So this is the answer to what I asked you earlier on these points. So you're gonna fire him from the shelter because you justifiably expect him not to be able to get away. He stays in Serbia, no longer at the shelter, justifiable doubt exists that he will not be able to get away, and maybe he's a drug dealer, maybe he's a trafficker, maybe he's a criminal, I don't know what classes, you just open the door to the shelter and you say you just reasonably expect that you can't force him away, you let him go and he walks the country to Serbia and he keeps doing what he did. If our doubts about this article were justified in 50, and that's why we asked to shorten this deadline from 90 to 30 days, you explained in the final position of Article 50. That final position of Article 50 says - the time spent outside the shelter in holding the prison sentence or in detention is not included at the time of stay at the shelter, except in the case referred to in Article 48(1) of this Act. Article 48(1) of this Act speaks of the retention of foreigners and says - exceptionally, if this is the reason for the security of the forced distance, the stranger may be kept in the premises of the competent authority, but no longer than 24 hours. Isn't detention up to 24 hours a day? As far as I'm aware of the legal regulations in Serbia, it's a 24-hour detention. There's no reason to make an exception here. Why did I tell you to confirm all our doubts with this attitude? Because you've already said yourself that the time a stranger spent outside the shelter to support a prison sentence or in custody is not included at the time of his stay at the shelter. If you expect him to have been in custody or have been in detention, you yourself are aware that the largest number of such people with any criminal past or in Serbia is due to some criminal activity. Of course, different cases can happen, completely harmless, when people have to come to save their heads, what we said the other day could happen to the Montenegrin Serbs under pressure from the regime in Montenegro, but that is something that has been regulated by other members of this law. However, you did not accept our amendments, but in any case it does not apply to these people, but it does refer to those who have committed a crime or plan to commit a crime in Serbia, perhaps even a criminal act of terrorism, who knows what, all sorts of things happen in this evil time. It's not good that you predicted that this time spent in custody was not included at the time spent at the shelter. While a person is in custody, you can, I suppose, do all that, determine his identity if you don't know him, try to find out who he is, which is why he's here, see if he will deliberately interfere with the forced distance, whether he has a network of his criminal territory in Serbia, etc. I guess it's all done while the face is in custody. No, you're holding him in custody as long as the law allows, so you're only taking him out of custody, so you're leaving him 90 days, or 180 days, and he stays in Serbia for over a year, his criminals, drug dealers, human traffickers, God forbid terrorist organizations, etc. In this law, you have not in any way protected the interests of the citizens of the Serbian state, and thus neither the state of Serbia. It is not only a solution to pass the law in order to put a cartoon there -- and this law has been passed, but the laws must, above all, be used by the legal system of the Serbian state, which is not the case, and must be, above all, and exclusively... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, in the interests of Serbian citizens, in the national interest of the Serbian state, and everything else is secondary and should be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4844	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Buha, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Gordana Pop-Lazic has tabled an amendment to Article 54, paragraph 4, and is proposing to install instead of number 180 in draft law number 90. I'll read the bill so the public can see the essence of this amendment. Article 54. The bill says: "To a party who knows identity and who has been provided accommodation and means of maintenance, and cannot be forced away immediately, the competent authority may by means of a solution determine the measure of compulsory stay in a given place. A foreigner to whom a mandatory stay is designated shall be obliged to stay at a specific address and to regularly report to the competent national authority. Where justified reasons exist, a stranger may temporarily leave the place of compulsory stay, only with the decision of the competent authority to which it is granted. Mandatory stay may last for a maximum period of 180 days. Against the solution referred to in Article 1, as well as against the decision referred to in Article 3, which shall be denied, a foreigner may, through the competent authority, make a complaint to the Ministry within eight days of the date of receipt of the solution. The appeal does not delay execution. The mandatory stay shall be entered in the travel document of the stranger. A foreigner who does not have a travel document is issued a temporary ID card. The way the mandatory stay is entered into the travel document and the appearance of a temporary ID card form is prescribed by the minister responsible for internal affairs. The competent authority shall determine the stay at the shelter in accordance with Article 49 of this Act. On the submission of the amendment, the Government has given an explanation stating that it does not accept this amendment for the same reason for which no amendment to Article 50 is adopted. It's a bill of law. Dear counterpart Gordana Pop-Lazic tried to reduce the time of stay, to allow state authorities to determine within 90 days all the relevant facts regarding the stranger and that the time of retention is in place within 90 days. The government has been going with this attitude -- no amendment has been accepted, and here I will point to certain other matters related to this law, and also to other legal regulations concerning both foreigners and certain assets. I will now talk a little bit about the property of Serbs from the Republic of Serbia in the former Yugoslav states and what its fate is, above all, legal and physical persons, and on the other hand, to see what the fate of the property that the legal and natural persons in the Republic of Serbia had. The area is regulated by an international agreement that constitutes an act of international law, since it has had more signatories and is signed with the participation of the international community and thereby gains validity. It was signed in 2001. It's about the Sucession Agreement. It has been ratified in the Republic of Serbia, has been ratified in all other countries, the last one has been ratified by the Republic of Croatia, you will see why it has always ratified the last of all international agreements where it has certain obligations. The Succession Agreement defines the whole property issue of the former SFRY, the deob and the property and way of handling all former Yugoslav states in terms of the right to the property, the regulation of the relationship of the assets and the return of certain assets in accordance with this international contract. According to this agreement, none of the former Member States could sell the assets that are catastranous, which are run as property by another republic. The Republic of Serbia passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act last year. Article 3 of that law allows the sale of assets of former Yugoslav states. The total value of Serbian property in BiH, Croatia and Slovenia is valued at a billion and 800 million. In all, about 300 private persons had the property and about 6,000 natural persons had property in the former Yugoslav states. What have the former Yugoslav states done? The moment they secededed, formed independent states, sold that property, alienated that property. What did we do? We passed a regulation in 1991 that allowed workers in those legal entities to form independent legal entities that would continue the work and continuity of these companies. They remained in special status, had state property status. This year 1606, on the basis of these amendments and the addition of the Privatisation Act, the government adopted a regulation that changed the character of property, from state property, that property has now grown into social property, those legal entities could register with land and cadastrian books with social property status. Thus, the Privatisation Agency created the conditions to sell the property, according to legal authority. At that moment, problems arise, and huge problems to find the state. So, our assets, whose value is one billion and 800 million euros and today the chamomile is there, it's sold, we're hardly even entitled to it, and the property of legal persons from the former Yugoslav states, the total value of about 800 million, when we tried to sell it, we even defined it by a regulation, the government defined by a regulation, that these assets would be held in a special budget account. Therefore, it will always be available to other legal persons who had it before 1991 and, in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement on Succession, will be compensated for mutual obligations, repossessed property, etc. The moment the first tender for the sale of certain companies was held, some fifteen companies were sold, which was followed by protests from Slovenia and Croatia. In total, Slovenia sent three protest notes. Rupel was very up-to-date there, he sent a protest note on 20.03.2008 and 22.07, and 25.07 and 19.08, meaning four, not three. Even one of us famous secessionists said it was out of the question of selling that property. We will prevent Serbia from entering the EU if any companies from Slovenia are sold. Janez Jansha, we know him very well. That's his statement. The foreign minister's statement, Rupel, was also similar. Croatians, too, three protest notes etc. What we did against the law, at the initiative of Minister Dinkic, Minister Dinkic was the bearer of the initiative to amend the Law on Privatisation, advocated thesis, went public, we must because they handed over our property, etc. The moment diplomatic pressures started from Slovenia and Croatia, all the jobs at privatisation were cut off. Why? Shouldn't we reciprocate, as they did in Croatia, Slovenia, BiH, to sell the same thing, to put it on the bill, to have the means in fact, as they do with our own? But far, far greater amount, billions and 800 million and about 800 million of their assets. I'll mention here what businesses on the Serbian side are about. We have NIS; NIS has in the former Yugoslav states about 30 petrol stations, there are numerous resorts, warehouses, participation in the Adriatic pipeline. We must also mention the EPS, its involvement in the construction of the electricity system, the former Yugoslav power system. Then we have the Geneks, we have the Centrotekstil, we have the Zemun Shoes, we have numerous resorts at sea that were built by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the authorities of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, many municipalities had their own resorts. A total of 319 facilities of business, industrial, tourist, catering, etc. Here's how one basically good idea in practice doesn't come to life, not just because we're afraid to enter a diplomatic struggle. We have behind us the fact that it's our property. It was once a unique social property and social property category. The moment of separation between Slovenia and Croatia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, they turned that social property into state property, sold and enjoyed the day-to-day in the funds they made from that sale. Unfortunately, Serbs don't do that. When we talk about the property of the legal entity, I must also mention the enormous assets of the natural persons, about 6,000 Serbs from the Republic of Serbia had property in Croatia, Slovenia and BiH. In Slovenia, they were the most pitomial about the return of property, houses, cottages by Bled, Bohinj etc., but in Croatia it is problematic. The Croats do not return, nor do the Serbs who were Croatian citizens return to the Serbs. Even where they return, they return by the rule of devastated, destroyed and burned objects, primarily the Adriatic cottages, numerous cottages, these are cases. The property was cleaned, stolen, destroyed, etc. When Serbs want to return to possession and return the real property, they have huge problems in front of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia. These procedures have been going on for years. They end up after 5, 6, 10 years, but it is a skeleton of houses, of real estate, because everything that can be destroyed is from Croats, and the situation is similar in certain parts of BiH. You see, our citizens don't have any protection here. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are doing nothing to assist in these proceedings before the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia, BiH and Slovenia. I'm asking the public, what is the right of one minister, who is aware of the fact that we have signed a Success Agreement, in which it is decidently said that property owned by former republics cannot be alienated, must be made available, to propose here a law on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act that allowed the sale. Suddenly, his will was cut off from this sale. Why? If we've already done illegality, let's get it over with. But when it comes to Dinkic, then you can do what he wants, but we can't let that happen. If the Croats did it, if the Slovenes did it, so do we, regardless of the conflict agreement. We were obliged under that conflict agreement to form a commission for succession. She was originally a commission of the federal government for succession, and according to the data available to the SRS, we were the most inactive in the commission. One joint committee, composed of all representatives of all commissions from the former Yugoslav states, was supposed to bring the views into line, agree on certain solutions and return to property and legal and physical persons. That's where we made the appointment again. While it was removed from the federal administration into the republican administration, we also lost documentation, etc. Mr. Buha, time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4846	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SRS MP Aleksandar Martinovic tabled an amendment to Article 57(2), in which he suggested that the words "registration and cards" be replaced with the words "road documents and travel cards". This amendment makes sense, legally and legitimately corrects the failure made by the promoter. Namely, attitude 1 and attitude 2 are not in agreement. Therefore, it was necessary to specify what travel documents are in question, what cards are in question. These can also be topographic maps, which is absolutely not acceptable and we believe that this amendment should, for these reasons, be accepted logically. In a few words, I would refer to the provisions of Article 40. It is incorrectly envisaged and not clear in Article 40 paragraph 1, point 2), it says - cancelling permanent residence. What's the big mistake here? A more precise formulation of this attitude should have been made. It's not clear, he says. It should have been more precise, legally convicted in Serbia of a criminal offence prosecuted by official duty. Because he can be convicted in France, Germany, England, Belgium, Britain and not count. So I think there was only one explanation here that this matter and that norm would be precise, and it would be more comprehensive. Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the opportunity since there is a Minister of the Interior, also a Deputy Prime Minister, firstly, when the government will propose to pass laws on foreign NGOs. I have studied which European countries have a special law on foreign NGOs. I worked on foreign NGOs and studied them in Austria, Belgium, Greece, Estonia, Italy, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Switzerland, Sweden, Spain. This is a common demonstration of national legislation on how regulation should be done when it comes to foreign NGOs. Our country has no special law on foreign NGOs. This law should be segregated from the Association Act. The Association Act contains three to four members, however, in the countries of the European Union you have between 20 and 30 members and provisions that regulate the way you register, the way you work, the way you delete from the register, and the first thing you ask for, which is in all countries, that these NGOs cannot be profitable. Mr. Minister, you are a witness that we have in our country foreign NGOs operating, but there is no legal regulation that has arranged that area. This area, especially from the aspect of our country's security, deserves special attention, to be segregated from the Association Act. It can't be the same and it can't be covered by the name of the Association Act, so it can be identified by hunting or fishing society or association. It's incompatible. Do you know how many foundations, both foreign and humanitarian, and inhumanities, work on the territory of this country? You remember in the 1990s what they were doing and how they were doing in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, what problems they were giving us. This area deserves special attention and to be regulated by law, in accordance with the Constitution. I remind you again that this is arranged in the countries I have listed, which have not been classified by the NGOs. They can act if they're registered in Germany, France, England, Britain and I don't, but they're registered under their laws, and here they can only be registered under our Constitution and our law. That's why they still need to arrange this area, that they have to follow the law, that they don't do it, because here agents, foreign and intelligence services, have entered all the structures of our system, and security, and military, and political, and economic. That's why I think it's necessary to think about passing a law on foreign NGOs as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I'd like to ask you to allow me just a few notes regarding, but the foreigners were working there again when it comes to Panchevo. When it comes to Panchevo and environmental protection, gentlemen of the people's MPs, citizens of Serbia, especially the citizens of Pancheva, Oliver Dulic, the environmental minister, was present. He held a meeting today in the City Assembly building in Panchev, and promised to resolve the problem in Panchev, by predicting in one of the next budgets a million or two million euros to resolve the consequences of protecting the environment that has been marred by NATO bombing and other age-old technologies. What does that mean? When Labus came, he said - Panchev will need to resuscitate South Industrial Law 360m euros. Former environment minister Dragin said the state would separate 120m euros to resuscitate the situation in Petrochem, Rafineria and Azotari. But, ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing of it. You can't protect the environment in Panchev to a working body. Let Mr. Dulic not hold a meeting in the City Assembly, but rather go with journalists in Petrochem, Azotara and Rafineria and see to it that the situation is there, and that the public is informed by state media, that it is estimating a situation that is very catastrophic. We have a fellow MP who is from Panchev, who last time convinced himself when the MPs wouldn't let them enter the Rafinery to see the state of the environment. The government's superiors go to Panchev several times, but there are no results, as the directors of these public enterprises also do not allow journalists and MPs to appear and see what is happening there. There is panic in the town of Panchev every day with our fellow citizens, and no one is doing anything about it. The government will shut up. This is another sad story from Panchev, which continues. The Pancheva oil refinery has become a top-secret institution. Not even the MPs can get into it. A top-secret place, more than the Pentagon. Bin Laden was able, without any problems or obstacles, to reach the Pentagon in the U.S. It's the Department of Defense, for those who don't know what the Pentagon is, and I think everyone knows, and MPs can't get into the Refinery. Over Pancheva is every day a smoke screen that takes its toll, jeopardizing the lives of our citizens. There's hot evidence, but no one's doing anything to protect the naked lives of 130 thousand Pancians. What have we discovered, and what haven't we, when we had the chance to visit an industrial zone in Petrochemy and the Refinery? What we did not reveal was not allowed to see and to know the public about it. We, MPs of the National Assembly, recently visited Pancheva, but without success. Panchets cry every day until they move out of this town. Such is your beloved injustice. We, instead of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, would suggest that we have a ministry of truth. Pancians have become slaves to the damn computers, monitoring that registers pollution, but responsible officials provide false data on the protection of the environment in Pancevo. Panchevo is like a prison circle, but surrounded by the greatest contaminants and war poisons. In 1999, the Pancians thought Mars attacked them when they turned out to be attacked by democratic countries from the West and the EU, rockets and bombs. The Pancians became victims, killed our citizens in the Refinery, workers, and caused material damage estimated at nearly a billion dollars. It's raining black in Panchev. When the Pancians get up in the morning, they say, "Good afternoon, sorrow." It's a city where it's dangerous to live. Panchets over their city see panic, in the very air. Contaminants became designers. Popular public opinion in Panchev can't do anything. In Panchev, cultural and polluting imperialism reigns. The failed campaign of local media against contaminants, especially RTS in Panchev, and their correspondence, unable to enter factories, recorded the situation and faithfully transferred it to the citizens of Panchev and also to the competent state authorities. The Pancians will experience total, not ethnic cleansing, as the government takes care of the Pancians, but that's why Pancev is making a huge profit and profit. The comparison works, Panchevo is the former Auschwitz, because its citizens live in a large gas chamber. Contaminants in Panchev were recently declared innocent by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection. This campaign of innocent contaminants is a campaign of dirty tricks, brainwashing the Pancians with their lies that there is no pollution in Pancev. This was announced to us by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, recently when we and the Committee on Environmental Protection were in Panchev. It seems that even a Balkan spy can't determine who's polluting Pancheva, whether the Rafineria, whether Petrochemy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4848	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 59th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 59 of the Foreign Law. The reasons for the adoption of this law can be divided into two groups. The first group because the previous law on the control of the movement and residence of foreigners in our country was passed on the basis of the 74th Constitution, and the 80th law itself belongs to the first group of reasons why this law should be passed, and the second because of Serbia's need for integration with the EU. It is said that this law needs to be adopted by an emergency procedure, and the last article says it will apply from 1 April 2009. A little illogical, but back to the amendment to Article 59. In order for the public to understand what this is all about, I will read Article 59. The bill, which reads: "The travel documents for foreigners, within the meaning of this law, are a travel document for refugees, a travel document for persons without citizenship and a passport for a stranger. A travel document for refugees shall be issued in accordance with the specific law and international contract." With the amendment I have submitted, I propose that Article 59 be deleted from the first sentence of the word "traveling document for refugees" and the complete position 2. Mr. Minister, my amendment is a logical clue to Mr. Buha's amendment to article 2 of this law. His amendment stipulates that point 3 is added in Article 2(1), which states: "This law does not apply to foreigners who... ", so it is said that I am not taking up time for this, and Mr. Buha has suggested that it should not apply to persons who have acquired refugee status. In his explanation, Mr Buha stated that the law on refugees provides for conditions for the exercise of the right to refugee status, which are different from the conditions provided for in the proposal for a law on foreigners. The refugees, as a special category of foreigners, shall in particular treat that law, and the provisions of this law relating to refugees shall be deleted from this proposal. So that's Mr. Buhe's explanation regarding his amendment. The government accepted the amendment and, in its explanation, said: "The government accepts this amendment for the reasons set out in the explanation of the amendments of the applicant." If this amendment is accepted, it is fine and it is quite in place, then there is no reason not to accept the amendment that I have submitted to Article 59, because the logical trail to this amendment is to Article 2. Who are the refugees in Serbia? Refugees have been Serbs and citizens of other nationalities, which have since 92, due to pressure from Croatia and other authorities, due to the threat of genocide, persecution due to various political views, of course and belonging to other religious groups, have been expelled from these republics and are now in Serbia. Who takes care of refugees - the most, and not to say almost exclusively, the Commissioner for Refugees and on the basis of the resolution of the Refugee Commissioner, the person gets status, and then the MUP assigns refugee legislation, which has the character of the identification document and the character of the health book for those who do not have other documents, and on that basis they exercise their right. I'm surprised, Mr. Minister, you're also in the role of Deputy Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister, the facts Mr. Buha presented not only today but many times... First Deputy; if we didn't comment, that's not the point, it's fortunate that Mrs. Comic holds the presidency, I'd list all the ministers and all the ministries, I have eyes in the back, because she once expressed dissatisfaction that one colleague couldn't do it. But if I ask to count all the agencies, I have to admit I couldn't do it. But a joke aside, Mr. Minister, today, the People's MP, Milorad Buha, as the Prime Minister of the Republika Srpska Krajina in exile, and not just today, has brought to you countless times in this high house the reasons and problems that refugees, before everyone from Republika Srpska, from the Republic of Croatia, and of course he is talking about refugees from Republika Srpska. The government should begin to resolve what it says on behalf of the Republika Srpska government in persecution. You heard from his statement that there are many reasons for the government of the Republic of Serbia to react urgently on this issue, and because of the problems refugees have in Serbia, and because of their assets, which are estimated at large financial amounts, which would directly benefit the Republic of Serbia. You would have to solve this and make good co-operation with the Republika Srpska government, if you care about solving refugee problems, which are close to 100,000 at this point in Serbia, in particular 96,948. Of course, they have big problems. In only one Belgrade municipality of about a thousand and a half, and perhaps two thousand refugees submitted a request, following an audit since 2005, due to their problems not to date or after three years, their problems have not been resolved, and neither the state authorities nor the Ministry of Refugees, nor the Commissioner for Refugees, have decided on their demands. A special problem arises among refugees from Republika Srpska in the Republic of Croatia when they need to extract assurance from the birth certificate, and they do not register JMBG with them, and without that number they cannot get certain rights in Serbia or register in a certain way to raise certain public documents that should be owned in the state of Serbia. I must remind you, although the situation is somewhat better now than it was before, it is not from the moment you are at the head of the ministry, but in the last year the situation is somewhat more up-to-date, Mr Todorovic knows about it, when it comes to the issue of citizenship assurance. Earlier, it waited several years, now that period is quite short, so I would ask you to look at, or to give a warrant -- all cases that are not resolved within a reasonable period of time to be resolved as soon as possible in order to get refugees or citizens of Serbia who have submitted the request, and are no longer in refugee status, to be given assurances of citizenship, which are necessary for them to exercise other rights. I remind you once again that this amendment should be accepted because there is no reason not to accept it, since Mr Buha's amendment to Article 2 has been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4850	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. There are six minutes and 30 seconds available to the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4851	When we talk about the assets of the former Yugoslav states, the assets of natural and legal persons in the former Yugoslav states, we must also mention the property, primarily social and state, in the Republic of Croatia. According to the provisions of the Federal Law on the privatisation of social and state property and transfer and property in some other property form from 90/91. In the year, the right to free division of actions, the right to participate in state and social property, all citizens, i.e. participation in a joint cookie called social and state property. What is the fate of individual categories of the SFRY population will best serve you an example of Serbs from the Republika Srpska Krajina of the Republic of Croatia. By banishing from 1990 to 1995, and unfortunately there are still exiles today, but I will refer only to these banishments from 1990 to 1995, nearly 800,000 Serbs were expelled from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Those Serbs who have been expelled have lost the right to refund property rights, social and state rights in the Republic of Croatia. How? The Republic of Croatia deleted the right of Serbs to free action, to participate in certain financial assets, by amending the 1991 Constitution, with a number of legislations later. Now I'm going to tell you here how much it's the property rights of the Serbs. According to the 91st Croatian Statistical Yearbook, the total value of property in Croatia was 126 billion German marks. If we move that to the euro category, that's about that much, 126 billion euros -- the situation of 31.12.91. If the participation of Serbs was 12.8%, it was far higher, it was about 20%, but official data say so, make it 12.2%, at 126 billion euros, it is 15 billion and 372m euros -- it is the participation of the Serb population in social and state property in Croatia. No euro Serbs have received. Look, these are unreal things. When the public hears this now, it says - this is banging etc. All of this is verifiable, all of this needs to worry us all -- that property is the property of Serbs. Serbs live here, you break in Serbia. Instead of allowing Serbs to obtain the property, this right belongs to them under a number of international rules, it belongs under the Agreement on Succession, etc. But that doesn't concern us - it's someone else's, which we don't care about. The property transfer from Croatia would come here, 15 billion euros -- unreal. We're talking about refugee meetings, people don't believe it, but it's math. It would also be a reality if we had a serious government, which would stand up for the Serb refugees, who would stand up for it, sit with the Croats and say, let's see why, in any way, how this right was denied, taken away. Now, what is the fate of the same Serbs who have received refugee status in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. At the end of last year, at the 12th month, the Free Action Sharing Act was passed. In the law, Serbs who have refugee status, do not have Yugoslav citizenship, do not have the right to free action. So, those who did not exercise that right in Croatia, who had the right to the federal state and according to the international conflict agreement, lost the right to this law, either there or here. Where's the justice? Now that you're listening to those people in collective centres, they say we're left behind by everyone and everyone, the only thing worse thinks about us. You see, then they're right. We don't think about them, but we don't think about ourselves. This property, that property rights would return to this country, enjoy these people too, enjoy this country, invest in real estate, invest in movables etc. Through value added tax, etc. It would pump into this country's financial system. The financial system of this country is empty, and we have huge rights that we don't want, we don't have current power with us. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution has reported dozens of times about this problem to all state authorities, the international community, etc., there is no movement. Let's honor one and the other and three, this is a crime to one people. We've experienced it from 90 to 95, here's what we're experiencing in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4852	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4853	Honorable MPs, Mr. Minister, based on article 145. I have submitted an amendment to the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure for Foreign Affairs, and this is to Article 67(2), in which the words "minister in charge" are replaced by the words "minister in power". In the light of the amendments, I stated that in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia only state authorities should have the right to lay down rules governing the exercise of certain rights, the appearance and content of public documents, while this right should not belong to those bodies' managers. In an explanation, the government does not accept this amendment because under the State Administration Act, the minister is authorised to lay down regulations under the Constitution, however, the institution is laying down regulations. My colleague, Verica Radeta, has already explained in detail the anti-constitutional nature of this law on state administration, so I would not explain that part more widely. In the state practice of the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, in the Law establishing the Central Government of 1862 and the 1929 State Administration Act, the ministry is mainly cited as competent to adopt sublaws. Otherwise, the position of the SRS is that in the current state-of-the-art state-of-the-art of Serbia's institution or ministry of protection against the individual-minister. In a previous draft by the government of Vojislav Kostunica since 27 December 2007, number 8776, there has been a provision that the minister is competent to adopt regulations. I must point out that this proposal for a law on foreigners of government Cvetkovic-Dacic is fully equivalent to the legal proposal of the previous government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica, the only change is in ministers, representatives of the government in the assembly. Earlier as a representative of the government, Jocic was appointed, and today it is Minister Ivica Dacic, the second is the government's composition, and the legislative proposals are identical entirely. So this is not the government's legal proposal Cvetkovic-Dacic, but the government's legal proposal, Dr Vojislav Kostunica. All of the above says that this government has not done this legislative proposal, and it cannot be included in the government's work. It is likely the same case with other proposals of the former government's law that were removed from the assembly agenda after the disbanding of the previous government, Vojislav Kostunica, in early spring 2008. This huge production of legal proposals that must be adopted under the urgent procedure is not due to the current government of Cvetkovic, but to the previous Kostunica government, so for the Jubilee 100 days of work of this ministerial council, the government cannot afford the authority for this bill, as well as probably for many proposals of the previous government's laws that this ministerial council has just prescribed. On the other hand, government media said the government had sent 70 bill proposals to the assembly procedure, while the assembly passed only 14 laws. Again with nothing caused by an attack on the Labour Assembly. Recently, the prime minister, over 100 days of government work, has again highlighted these 70 famous laws, which the government has not yet drafted or produced a few. To return to the matter of the ministry and ministers in the government, which is also the subject of reviewing this amendment of mine. If this amendment of mine is adopted, ministers can get powers like the one Louis XIV used to say - state, it's me. And the ministers, if this formulation remains, will be able to exclaim - the ministry, it's me, or even - the legislator, it's me. In the previous assembly, I criticised the proposal for a law on foreign affairs. Under the previous Law on Foreign Affairs of Serbia-Montenegro, the institutional basis of the organisation of foreign affairs has been deleted because there is no foreign ministry institution under the law. The state, like once Serbia-Montenegro, has a law on foreign affairs, in which the foreign ministry institution is placed in a different plan. If this continues to threaten us with the death of the Serbian state, that is, the death of its state institutions. The state-level government institutions are losing importance in the history of the modern Serbian state. As far as I can see, it's going to be an institution, a state-run system, like it used to be in self-government socialist Yugoslavia. As justified and meaningful as this amendment is for the benefit of the Serbian people and the state, as well as the amendment to Article 15, it will be rejected because it is an amendment to the SRS. Therefore, amendments to the SRS are not treated with respect from this ideologically-politically diverse, incompatible and highly lax coalitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4854	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 75th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popović, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Slobodan Maras. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, of the 75th Law provides for the obligation of almost instantaneous reporting of foreign nationals in our territory. The LDP believes that this obligation has so far produced major problems for foreigners who come to our country and the people they come to. Often in the debate on this and other laws, we will refer to some other countries, especially those which are in the process of transitioning and harmonising their legislation with the legislation of the European Union. Here I will give an example of Montenegro, which passed the Foreign Law a year ago and where they have ruled out the possibility and the obligation for foreigners to register immediately when they arrive on the territory of Montenegro. There are countries that want to attract as many foreigners to their country as possible, regular guests, tourists, scientists, professors. What do we want from Serbia? Where are our problems? Is tourism, say, a chance, and education reform a way to create a knowledge society? We've heard that we want to bring teachers from abroad to our universities. A Belgrade dormitory is now being renovated for this purpose. That's great, we support it, but we're asking whether when these professors come straight from the airport they'll go to the first local SUP to apply or do it for them by dean of the university or maybe the administrators of those dormitories. These are practical problems. Young people have also been coming to our country for years who have spent part of their studies here or have been professionally perfected. They can't understand that they're going with the owner of the apartment to apply to the police. Then suddenly, many of our problems come up: we don't have precise records, people live in apartments that don't have regularized ownership papers, and so we're in a vicious circle. Then what is it worth to us to lift visas for European countries? We are constantly talking about branding Serbia, improving its image. The countries are becoming attractive to foreigners not because of a concrete report by the European Commission or because of the CNN video, but because of the image of openness and easy communication they provide about themselves. We think this is a step in the wrong direction, that we'll be funny when, say, in two months we tell a stranger or a foreign guest that we have a modern law and that he'll be able to sign up by e-mail. Then, unfortunately, they'll find that at that very moment, it's not possible. We hope that this is a law that should be in force and when Serbia becomes a member of the European Union, it is made with that intention and such a term of duration. Then why insist so much on the system where visas are so important, in which everyone reports to the police immediately upon arrival? We suggest that this obligation be abolished, that it be reformed somehow. Whether to create a special organisational unit within the interior ministry, which will design some charts or some electronic way of reporting foreigners at the border. I think it's the minimum there has to be, that there's some modern European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4856	The People's MP Miroslav Petkovic has the word, followed by the National MP Judita Popovic, and then by the MP Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4857	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dacic, we have discussed in principle the very subject on which counterpart Hajdarevic submitted the amendment, if I am not mistaken, one amendment from the ruling coalition has been accepted in connection with the move from 12 to 24 hours. I'm taking this opportunity to thank Mr. Dacic who accepted the DSS amendment to the foreign law and one amendment to the state border law, and I think that's good. Today we received information that the government, or prime minister, has announced that it has accepted another DSS initiative. In fact, on 8 October, we submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, where we asked for the deposit insurance to increase from 3,000 euros to 20,000 euros, as it was in most European countries, which, meanwhile, increased the amount to 50,000 euros when the financial crisis took place. We heard an announcement from the prime minister that the amount will be increased to 100,000 euros as well. But I just want to go back to the fact that we asked for it on October 8th, and already on October 9th we got a response from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Slobodan Ilic, who literally said that we were panicking needlessly, that there is no reason and no argument can be seen in our demands that this deposit increase be included; he stated that 80% of citizens, who have their savings stakes, have up to 3,000 euros, 13% between three and five and very small percentages of over 5,000 euros; that practically this requirement should protect some financial oligarchy, tycoons and people who have huge resources; that this is pure demagogy, to spread panic, that it is a beautiful story and that nothing is based on our request. I want to express my satisfaction that the proposal and the idea of the DSS have been accepted. Although we have asked for 20,000 euros, the situation is obviously much more serious, so the government has agreed to raise the amount to 50,000 euros. I would also like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister - when we can expect this bill on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, given that this amount can only be changed through law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4858	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, followed by the MP Slobodan Maras. The LDP parliamentary group is available for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4859	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Working Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on this amendment to Article 75, I would particularly draw attention to the legislator of a single illogicality. According to this Article 75, the moment since the foreigner's obligation to report has been defined by Article 1 and 2. Article 1 provides for a time for the provision of accommodation services to a foreigner, i.e. from the time of arrival of a foreigner. Therefore, this is the moment when a foreigner should register to the competent authority, i.e. the competent SUP, of the place of residence. But what's going on here? The stranger crossed the border, so we don't know when, obviously it doesn't get registered, and then from the moment he settled, that is, when he arrived at his place of visit he has an obligation to apply. It remains empty that period from the moment of crossing the border to the moment when the obligation arises that he report it, that he has entered the country and settled where he is staying. In item 2, the stranger is also obliged to apply, and since the time of arrival. So the situation is the same as in attitude 1. We basically have an empty walk from border control, from the border crossing to the moment of that binding part, where he has to apply. If the legislator's intensity was to have a record of the foreigner's stay in our country, then there really is a problem because we don't record a period of his stay. This is also the argument of the Government which rejected this LDP amendment in paragraphs 1 and 2. So, the record of the foreigner's stay is necessary to the ministry, in order to have insight into the length of the foreigner's stay. If the legislator felt that it was much simpler for the stranger to apply to the competent SUP in the place of residence and that it was much cheaper for the state, we consider that it is not, because it is also a cost if it is registered there, so why would it be less cost than applying to border control. If a stranger applied when crossing our border, at that time his entry into the country and his stay in our country were recorded, in that case it would be no problem for the state to record his presence in the country from the first moment of the crossing of that border. Therefore, we do not really see why this amendment was rejected, for there is no economic or other justification. We urge that this amendment be in that form as proposed and adopted, i.e. to delete Articles 1 and 2. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4860	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. The time available to the LDP parliamentary group is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4861	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, along with my LDP colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to delete Articles 75, paragraphs 1 and 2. I would only state three key reasons, the first and the main reason is that so far this reporting that existed and produced some unnecessary complications and made the situation quite difficult. The other thing that I think is also important, I can't say that it's successful, but it's important in, and in its explanation, and here I still think it's attitude 5, you're saying that reporting foreign residents can be done by email. All of us who have been in this country for the last six months have witnessed that when it comes to not e-mail, but when we had a situation with new ID cards and passports, there really is one problem. I'm not saying that this problem was caused by your actions. On the contrary, that's something we weren't ready to do. I think that if these e-mails, if strangers were to apply to it, could often happen and if the system didn't work, if it hadn't been raised, etc., there was a jam, and in the end I guess it's necessary to bring in a Rules of Procedure about something like that, and I think that's one of the things that made us suggest that we delete these two positions. As counterpart Hajdarevic said, this law should be in force and when we enter the EU one day, this system by which these visas receive such great importance I think it will produce that this law must be changed at these times, i.e. that these views cannot remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4862	Anyone else want a word? On behalf of the promoter, the word has a minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4863	Ladies and gentlemen, it is doubtless that the applicants of this amendment have a desire to simplify this procedure that exists and I must say that we have seriously considered all these proposals because the aim of making this law is to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation and the aim of our bill was to pass such laws, which tomorrow will not be an obstacle to putting our country on the white Schengen list. With all that in mind, despite all these suggestions that you've made here, we need to stay with this solution that exists so far, as suggested. Legal and natural persons providing accommodation services to foreigners with compensation are obliged to report this to the competent police administration. It's so everywhere in the world. Just because we don't know that that's true doesn't mean that hotels where you're staying don't. The second question is to simplify procedures for strangers themselves, when they do not stay in hotels or when they do not come to visit private persons. Also simplifying the procedure for those who host foreigners, we accepted one of the amendments that extends that time of stay. I must say that our MUP is in the process of developing a single information system that requires good software, but it is also necessary to connect well and network with various other state bodies, such as the Foreign Ministry, in order to know exactly who it is going to, on the basis of which invitation letter, etc., in the act itself. Also, this system should include a unique archive of entry and exits from our territory. I must tell you that at this time, the MUP, the state of Serbia, does not possess such a unique system. Other countries that are in our environment and do not possess such a system, although EU members, such as Bulgaria, Romania, also have such institutes as we are proposing here. If you have noticed, in the text of this article stands - the foreign minister may, in agreement with the interior minister, prescribe that certain foreigners are not obliged to report their stay in Serbia. This means that when our doors to the EU are opened, this is the situation in Bulgaria, where EU citizens are not obliged to report. To be clear, only strangers here are required to report where they are, if they're not in a hotel or if they're not at some physical person's. If you look at this final position of this member, the way in which the residence, residence and change in address and log out is determined by the rules of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Our goal is to simplify completely this procedure. What does that mean? A stranger no longer has to go, or a citizen, directly to the police station, can do it by e-mail, and we'll assume he can do it on the phone, because if he already gets a visa, he'll file an application for a visa, about where he'll be staying. Whether we accept this amendment or not does not reflect whether we want a country that will be closed or that will have some old ways of controlling foreigners. On the contrary, even modern countries, democratic countries, have just such institutes on some issues that are important to the country's security. I would like to remind you that not only foreigners from the EU are coming to our country. It is very important to say and the next thing you know, there are strangers coming to our country who, when their visa runs out, are looking for asylum. I don't know if you're aware enough that last year something less than 100 Iraqis requested and received asylum in our country. Also, I don't know if you know the gentleman you were talking about, County 64, he's been cancelled, he's been banned from coming to our country for two years. So I ask you, and when it comes to the next article of 76, one question is human rights, freedom, democracy and everything else, and another question is some records and what every country must have. This ministry will fully simplify the whole procedure, and when we're able to create a unique information system and it's clear that one stranger entered one border crossing, went to another, to know exactly when he's going in, who he's staying at, what hotel, then there won't be any need for such details from this law anymore. Finally, this law and this other law on state border control are harmonised and are written to allow our country to go one more step further on that so-called. the map of the road to EU entry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4864	Does anyone else want a word by amendment to Article 75, where the applicants are joint MPs Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Slobodan Maras? You want a word? The SRS parliamentary group has time. Here you are, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, it is necessary to install this in the provisions of the law when it comes to a foreigner coming to Serbia, that he is required to register if he is staying in a hotel, or an institution providing catering services. What are we gonna do if that stranger comes to us and goes to General Staff or goes to the embassy? On entering our country, he reports -- I will be at the address of that and that -- however, he changed his address and went elsewhere. It's a matter of control. Secondly, who enters Serbia? It is not known why it enters Serbia, it is not known who is following it, whether someone will follow it, whether someone will follow it and also register it with electronic, audio or photographic recordings. And what's going to happen, I'm asking a question. This is a very difficult situation when a stranger comes and goes to the embassy, the embassy shuts up, our organs are unable to find out where he is. And what's going to happen, he's not in the Hotel "Balkan", he's not in Moscow, the internal affairs don't know where he went, whether he went to Albania, whether he went to Croatia or the Bosnian Federation. He's losing track. Its entry into the country has been recorded, however, looking in various ways for the possibility of staying in our country of Serbia. And what's he doing? You, Mr. Minister, are well aware, because you are a witness to the events ahead of previous wars and during the wars what our intelligence services have done to us, which are embedded in all systems, and in the General Staff, and in the Ministry of Defense, and in the Ministry of Defense, and in the Bia, and in other ministries, the Foreign Ministry. That's why he's got some good evidence going on. The evidence is that the advisors are English, English generals are advisers to the MUP and General Staff. In internal affairs, we've come under the firm to help you, we want to help you carry out military reform, police reform and reform your legislation, and we're going to organize round tables. However, their activity was out of control. That's why our M.O.P. has a delicate responsibility. This business must be approached in the most serious and responsible way, to banish all those persons, and to declare the persons of non-grat, who have damaged our country during the war, and even after the war, and now. What Serbia's army will do with advisers from England, America and Germany. Well, we have such good officers, generals and experts who ended up at a few academys. Why do we need a counsellor from England to come to the General Staff and now he's listening to our generals and officers, and he's telling them a story about how our army needs to be organized. What are they doing at the M.O.P.? You remember in 2000 what happened, where they all had pores and stops. That is why it is necessary to clean them out of here, in this country they are not desirable to us, neither necessary nor necessary, we have the police extremely professional and responsible. Therefore, there is no need for them to remain in our country. We have the right, we have the obligation to arrange, as best possible, relations in the state of Serbia when it comes to responsibility and conduct, and also to interfere and deal with the intelligence activities of Western intelligence services. You, Mr. Minister, have had your chance as soon as you've come to learn many things in that vault as possible. We are counting on our police and BIA to bear full responsibility, and it has every right to control their border in detail and to establish such security throughout Serbia in every sector, in every municipality, in every district, that the bird cannot fly across Serbia without our intelligence and counterintelligence knowing what is going on. There's a lot of mess in this area. That's why it's necessary to arrange, not go over this flat. This law will be nothing unless our services take matters into their own hands. This means that we must establish the security of our country, the security of our citizens, and regulate the rights of foreigners when they come to the country as they should behave. The deadlines that are proposed, in which case the stranger may remain 90 and 180 days. That's unacceptable in my opinion. Ask in England. If someone for some reason needs to be expelled from America, they won't wait 24 hours or 48 hours. That's why these deadlines are very long and they have no excuse. What about the one who's first of all justly convicted, secondly, who doesn't appreciate the request for pardons, what he's doing in our country for 180 days, to be guarded and followed, and to be fed, and more hotel accommodation to pay him. That's unacceptable. On these issues, the SRS has a completely different view and this state can be regulated to the extent that our citizens can feel safe, and secondly, foreigners have to act in accordance with the Constitution and the legal regulations adopted by our country. They can't be free shooters here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4866	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. The LDP parliamentary group is available for six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4867	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I had no intention of reporting after your address, no matter how much I'm not satisfied with the explanation. But you touched Article 76, and you stated that, too, this explanation could literally refer to that member, but more than anything, I was offered the address of my colleague Jojic, or it seems to me that behind your reasoning, behind your wish not to accept the erasure of these views, is actually one such thinking, I don't mean yours personally, but look at the formulation in Article 76(3). Mr. Jojic, on many occasions as he was speaking now, said that these foreigners who enter are being guarded, someone is watching, feeding, etc. That's what he's after. The formulation in this Article 76, which we have proposed to delete, reads - necessary to protect the order or security of the Republic of Serbia. In this amendment, we have put it into the view that it is too general and that all of this reminds us, and especially this thinking, of a "kvorović Serbia", means an incredible fear of foreigners. Of course, we need to protect the country's safety, but we can't look at this problem that way. My colleagues before me from the LDP are examples of why we think these positions in Article 75 of the 1st and 2nd paragraphs should be deleted. Mr. Dacic, like you, I've tied myself to 76, to the one we've filed with DLP, to erasing the positions of 1st and 2nd from that article. What I'm saying is that behind your argument, which is nicely packaged, I'm afraid one of these intentions is hidden, which, by chance, was presented by an MP of the SRS, but I'm afraid that such thinking, "vvorovićski" means, fear of strangers, is behind this argument, which is why you rejected our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4868	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. The SRS is available for seven minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4869	I'm reporting for the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not about Serbia none of our citizens want, about Serbia that would be a police state and that would in any way endanger anyone's freedom. It is a free Serbia, where Serbian citizens and foreigners who come to Serbia could do anything in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, I have reminded you of Serbia since 5 October 2000, which is no longer a free state. You either know it or you should know, that there is no ministry in which there are no foreigners, EU representatives. You should know that no law in this assembly comes without first obtaining approval from those who are appointed by the ministries and who approve of any bill that can come into the assembly procedure or not. What's particularly important is that there are no proposals on our part. Only those proposals that have already been received from the EU arrive here, and that there is a danger from those who have come and are doing Serbia, and they do not want Serbia well, you have so many examples and it would take me a long time to give you everything. Here, I'm going to accidentally give you an example from 2001, and that example in the form of a parliamentary question that I then asked in the Greater Republic, the then federal government of Yugoslavia, the Ministry of Defence, where I asked the question at which session of the government and who allowed the representatives of the US military to come and tour the entire dedicated industry in Serbia? Mr. Marash, I didn't get that answer until today. Now, regardless of the political differences between your party and our party, do you think these people who came here are registered? Did they account to any of our state authorities, the Ministry of Interior or the Ministry of Defense? No, they were in charge of them. They couldn't even communicate with them, they just had to serve them, they had to fulfill all the orders. Now you explain to me the motives that led America to send its people to tour Serbia's entire dedicated industry, that is, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. As unobstructed as anyone can be in this case, they can't convince me that their motives were altruistic, that they wanted us well, that they wanted to see what they had destroyed in NATO bombing, that they could help us fix it. No, they came to see what state he was in, whether it could possibly be restored, what everything was produced, and to give the order to stop that production. Among other things, you should know that when it comes to the work of the dedicated industry, no programme can be launched without the approval of America and the EU, nor can any exports be implemented, absolutely nothing. You should know, everyone here, that first that former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the area of arms exports, was making significant funds. And now we're on the sidelines. Why? Because it didn't suit anyone. Who? Logically, whoever's leading in that area, and we've had an extremely good dedicated industry. When representatives and MPs of the SRS point to some problem when it comes to foreigners, we primarily think about those who are unwitting, who do not want well to this country, but are instructed, that is, to do their activities harm Serbia and its citizens, which you have had opportunities for all this time and to make sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4870	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief. First of all, I should like to comment on the amendment of my colleague, Aleksandr Martinovic, to Article 57. I have not responded by amendment, but I cannot miss the opportunity precisely because of the arguments we received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia which is why this amendment is not accepted. It is the fact that the position of Article 1 57 states that in order to ensure the enforcement of the emergency distance protection measure, travel and travel cards and travel cards may be temporarily withdrawn from a foreigner, and in the second point of view, that the withdrawn documents and cards of Article 1 of this Article shall be issued. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Col. Martinovic specified this position, asking the amendment to say that the withdrawn travel documents and travel tickets were issued. Now listen, please, what kind of explanation we got from the government why it wasn't accepted. He says, very intelligently, the government does not accept this amendment because the formulation of this article clearly shows which documents and cards are involved, and other documents would not be issued attestation. What does this mean? We wanted to make sure that there was no confusion, that if you took away your travel documents and you took away your travel tickets, that you would issue that man a confirmation that you took away the temporary travel documents and travel tickets, that someone wouldn't come with the photo cards, with some military cards. You have to know exactly which card, or specifically, is which one was taken away. Come on, why don't you take it? You say it. And you wouldn't issue a certificate about other papers. Is it possible for you to take away from strangers your papers without giving them confirmations? Who knows what kind of documents people come to Serbia with, and you mean you don't give them confirmation of what you took from them. This was really so interesting that I had to go public... Now, that's Cvorovic's Serbia, that's right, Mr. Todorovic. So that was why I had to go back to this amendment briefly. Now, regarding Article 75 and the LDP amendment. When we in the SRS, in our parliamentary group, analyzed this law and we were in a dilemma whether to write a similar amendment, or whether to delete the first two positions of Article 75, but of course for completely different reasons and with other motives compared to the motives brought forth by LDP colleagues, which is, of course, their absolutely legitimate right, which is the views of their party. But what Marash said here was that SRS MPs, he specifically said about Mr. Petar Jojic's discussion, that SRS MPs were afraid of open Serbia. No, of course not, but we are afraid of Serbia being opened the way you would open it and opened it since 2000. That's what Mr Dragan Todorovic was talking about, and I have no intention of repeating it. But what was our motive when we considered whether to write this amendment, whether or not we submitted this amendment, of course, by respecting the facts that Mr Dacic stated that one part of this really had to be regulated, but of course not all of it, you didn't explain well enough. For example, by reading this article, we had in mind foreigners on the street of Jevrem Grujic. In my time, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I asked your predecessor, Mr. Jocic, to answer the parliamentary question, since he gave the answer, in fact, the man said he didn't know what it was about, and now I'm asking you, perhaps you found out in the meantime, so I would pray, if he did, that you would answer us. In Jevrem Grujic, number 11, Serbs have been detained in the building for several years. There, in the harshest possible way, they convince, blackmail, bribe themselves, to be witnesses in The Hague. We know cases relating to an attempt to provide witnesses to the indictment in the case of our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj. I assume you know of such cases from your late president's trial and likely all other Hague indictees are working in the same way. So, there are some people out there, they come to the home address of a man they estimate to be a witness to the prosecution, and then they bring him to Jevrem Grujic, first he has to walk past some guards, some police. My question, referred then to Mr. Jocic, and now to you, it was, first of all, who are these officers guarding the building in Jevrem Grujic, number 11 and what is the interest of the Serbian state to have our police guard that building? The answer I received from Mr. Jocic was that he, as police minister, did not know who these officers were guarding the building at 11 Jevrem Grujic Street, but said he had some knowledge that there is another police officer who is solely in the jurisdiction of the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes in Belgrade. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you to answer this question, if something has changed in the meantime, if it hasn't, then let's know we still have a case like that. So, then our people, who they pick up like that, even Christine Dahl himself, came to the table, Stoki, Ljubisha, what they're called, and then they take a man there, they hold him for four or five days, they interrogate him continuously for seven or eight hours, they don't let him drink water, they don't let him eat, they don't let his family know. By the way, they tell him that they know everything about him, and then they tell him some details from his childhood that he doesn't remember, and then they say, "You know, we know that you were here and there and there, we have a prepared indictment against you, but all of this can go away if you agree to testify against Vojislav Seselj." And this one says, "but I don't know anything, Vojislav Seselj at the time, and I don't have any information that Vojislav Seselj committed any crime, let alone a war crime." And then these Hague investigators in Belgrade, in Jevrem Grujic, say "well, you don't have to, but then you're going to go to The Hague, then we're going to press charges against you," or they say, "Say how much money you need". They gave the man a check, it was published in our president's book, we had a scientific meeting twice on the subject, they gave him an empty check, and they said, "Write down how much money you need, just accuse Vojislav Seselj." Some of them seem to have typed a number, and we expect maybe a surprise when it appears with lines and a changed voice, but we'll see. So that was our motive why we wanted to discuss this article. On the other hand, since this law is a good thing for Serbs who used to be refugees or are refugees today, you know, it's very offensive, even though you just said it wasn't true, and it's true. Unfortunately, I speak from personal examples. It's very offensive when he comes to me as a guest, or anyone from a similar situation, a born aunt, aunt, aunt, brother, it doesn't matter, from Banja Luka, from Sarajevo, someone from RSK, etc., that you first have to take him by hand, to take him to the MUP on the municipality where you live, to report there, to take his passport, to tell him exactly how long he will stay, if you happen to stay a day or two longer, you have to take him to confirm it again. It's not even possible for me to go personally and do it, but for the one who came to the guests, before unpacking, to go faster or better to apply to the MUP. What was up to the time he came into Serbia, until that time he came to me, let's say it was someone who could in any way be dangerous to the state, of course, in my case it wasn't a case, but he could've done not know what, but it's important when he came to where he went that he had to sign up to the MUP, like we don't have police at the borders, like we don't have customs, like we don't have a face record or maybe we don't really have a face record coming into the country. In the end, the amendment that made me come forward is an amendment relating to Article 75, again what we haven't been able to convince you all day, Mr. Minister, which is on the application of Article 136(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines what state authorities are in the Republic of Serbia. You're, like, a person with a lot of functions, but you're not a state organ, you're just an elder of one of the organs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4872	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4873	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Rule 226 of the current Rules of Procedure and ask for a notice, through you, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- when the deposit insurance law will come to this assembly. In fact, as the DSS parliamentary group, reacting last week to the current financial crisis in the world, we proposed by an urgent procedure to amend the Deposit Insurance Act, to calm down the panic that apparently occurred to citizens and to enable our fellow citizens not to worry about their savings roles, which should be safe in banks, and they will be safe in banks when the state guarantees them. The National Assembly Finance Committee, attended by the governor of the NBS and the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, was then held. They then broke the sea of criticism on our bill in the words that it is, in fact, a panic from the opposition and that it is a wrong move, that it should not be done, that savings stakes in banks are safe and that insurance of deposits is up to 3,000 euros, as far as it is, quite enough, because it covers 80% of all savings stakes in Serbia, and therefore there is no reason to raise that deposit on the proposed 20,000, as we have then suggested. Today, reading earlier in the news, we heard Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic say the government of the Republic of Serbia will pass a law on an urgent procedure to amend the Deposit Insurance Act and raise the threshold to 50,000 euros. I wonder what that means now, who lied in this story? Did we panic or wanted to bring security to our citizens by saying that the state must guarantee all stakes of up to 20,000 euros, or indeed panic exists, so the government is now, using this proposal, raising further to 50,000 euros. Is our financial system really stable enough, and the central bank, so that we can guarantee the citizens up to 50,000 euros? Anyway, this is commendable, and I'm glad the government people accepted this well-intentioned suggestion. It will certainly strengthen the trust of our fellow citizens in banks and the monetary system. But I'm simply interested in when this law will formally come to the Assembly, because press statements don't mean anything until the law formally passes the assembly procedure and until it is brought here, and thus guarantees the roles of our fellow citizens in banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4874	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic. At the disposal of the DSS parliamentary group for 12 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, the greatest evil currently overcome over Kosovo and Metohija is the deployment of the Eulex mission. On the subject of 13.09.2018 the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija concluded, among which the first conclusion is that Eulex cannot be extended to Serb municipalities and settlements and that any such attempt will come to the resistance of the Serbian people in the province. By contrast, at the time, Minister Cvetkovic made one statement that there was a possibility that the Eulex mission could be deployed throughout Kosovo and Metohija. The community's leadership at the time has three times requested the reception of Minister Cvetkovic to clarify these views. We are witnessing daily individual statements and opinions that the Eulex mission should be deployed throughout Kosovo's territory. I'm making a difference between you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister, counting that your relationship and presidents are not the same towards Kosovo and Metohija, so I ask you to explain to me, not only to me living in Kosovo, but to the entire Serbian population in Kosovo and Metohija, the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot accept representatives of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4876	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 76th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Slobodan Maras. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I am informing the assembly that, in agreement with the National Assembly President, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and the heads of the parliamentary groups and RTS, it is agreed to take a break between 18:00 and 18.30 hours for the direct transmission of the Book Fair in Belgrade. On this basis, I am setting a break now because, according to the amendment in particular, every MP has 15 minutes, not wanting to deny MPs the right to use their 15 minutes. So we continue the discussion in detail. Kenan Hajdarevic picked up his word, and he'll get his word, and I'll set a break by 6:30. Thank you. [[After break – 18.35]] We continue to discuss the amendments in detail. The amendment to Article 76, which was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Ivana Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Slobodan Maras. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4878	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, Article 76. The proposal for a law on foreigners provides for a way to collect personal data for foreigners. There are three ways to do it here. Our amendment to the LDP parliamentary group requires that under 3 be "needed to protect the public order or security of the Republic of Serbia" -- deleted. The LDP considers that the law on foreigners is quite sufficient to provide a provision that states that data can be collected when provided for by law and international agreement, or what is referred to in No. 1). It is dangerous and harmful to promote such principled sentences and provisions in the process of adopting so-called adoption. European laws. We must reform legislation through such laws, and our understanding of the country in which we live and its environments. It can no longer be enough to repeat a general claim from the Constitution that allows the data to be collected - when the reasons for the public order and security require it. But the purpose and purpose of the law is to specify these circumstances and conditions, to work out exceptions from some right, not to prescribe constitutional categories. Public order and security for us from LDP are very important in the modern world, especially in the context of the growing threat of terrorism. All countries face these challenges and seek a way to maintain a balance between privacy and protection of national security. This problem must be dealt with seriously - reforming the services involved and adopting specific laws and rules for such situations. We can't go into every law that mentions states, foreigners, borders to make provisions that scare us, and they don't bring any benefit to the state and national security. Therefore, the LDP advocates that we keep the formulation - when it is provided for by law and international agreements, and that during the period of changing other concrete laws, as the Criminal Procedure Act and the Security Community, we define what it means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4879	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. The time available to the LDP parliamentary group is 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4880	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the LDP has submitted this amendment - to delete point 3 of Article 76 of the foreign law, precisely because it is common for us to mention the word "party" at the moment to be associated with national security, to protect the public order. Unfortunately, this points to a very bad practice, a claustrophobic approach towards the entry of foreigners into our country. In fact, foreigners are automatically assessed as security-interesting persons and as suspects -- who knows what they can be prepared for as soon as they cross the border of the Republic of Serbia. We still don't have a reformed state security service, we don't have the proper laws to adequately protect the data on those foreigners' personalities. The LDP considers that the law and the international contract are quite well and can correctly regulate this matter by collecting data on foreigners, especially if it is in the interests of foreigners and the parties do not object. Therefore, this article in 76 could in itself absolutely submit all checks on the liberalisation of our legislative system. However, this point 3 actually spoils the picture about it and is completely unnecessary, only making it difficult to apply this law because it allows certain services to be far more involved in the assessment of these foreigners, whether they are the same in some of the national interests, in public order and so on. Because that public order and national security are so stretching concepts that there's a lot that can be fooled by the same thing. We have witnessed in recent years that this has been used many times. Where there is no limit or guarantee that would be regulated by law in the sense of limiting the collection of such data in the interest of protecting public order and national security, then point 3 is indeed a problem and we do not see why this point would not be deleted under the LDP amendment. Therefore, when this law is better read, it can be seen that these other provisions, such as visas, issuing powers and consular co-operation, types of visas and the like, are quite neat and correctly regulated by that matter as regards informing our country about specific foreigners who want to enter the country. First of all, these visas are made and not given to foreigners unless they meet some assumptions about their actions that could potentially endanger our public order and national security. It is really unnecessary, therefore, that, contrary to international conventions and contracts, it is so insistent on this, and this is a rather archaic way of controlling and registering foreigners that in order to protect the public order and security of the Republic of Serbia, data on foreigners is being collected. Therefore, we believe that this law on foreigners, its provisions that have passed so far, as far as amendments are concerned, cover the interests of this country to the fullest extent possible to protect itself. By the way, as regards our previous amendment to Article 75, I would just like to point out that, in fact, the minister did not deny that he was, or that those views were, simply because the problem with the administration which is very three and slow, and there are no appropriate software, there are no appropriate programs to regulate the registration of foreigners when entering the country, so at the moment of crossing the border. In fact, we have only proved that our amendments are celibate and that they do not give us reason to make it difficult for the Ministry to work, legislator or anything like that, or to advertise the existence of LDP, but only to actively participate in the creation of laws and policies regarding foreign law. Therefore, we continue to urge that our amendments be adopted because they are indeed only given for this reason to improve the regulatory framework and no other reason exists. We consider this article 76 to be essentially good, except for this point 3, which should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4881	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. The LDP parliamentary group is available for six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4882	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, has already been mentioned by this Member, or our amendment, where we have proposed that Article 76 paragraph 1 point 3 be deleted. We believe that it is quite enough that in this position 1 states that we will collect all information about a stranger when the law or a ratified international contract, or at point 2) when it is in the interest of a stranger, and it does not object. We believe that this point 3, when it comes to protecting the public order or the security of the Republic of Serbia, is quite general and allows for abuse. That's what I'm saying for the following reasons, which we ourselves know that our security services, however many there are, have not been reformed. I listened very carefully to what you said yesterday at the marking of the 18 years of your leadership committee, that it was time for new personnel and new rhetoric. I don't see any new personnel, because all those who marked the SPS era in the '90s have returned to power. It's your policy and your coalition partners. We don't mind that. When it comes to rhetoric, this attitude of 3rd reminds me indeed of a time when we took care of the protection of the public order or the security of the Republic of Serbia by abuse of security services. We think at this point it would be very appropriate to delete this point 3 from this attitude and thus not allow for one generalization. Because in this formulation, you can really find any context to do what this article expects you to do. I therefore consider this amendment to the LDP to be in place. You just said there are reasons why you weren't able to accept it. I can't accept those reasons, especially for this amendment, for the previous one I can still accept those reasons. I don't agree with your reasons, but the reasons you cited, and you tied them to this member, are not acceptable to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4883	Anyone else want a word? The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4884	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would only ask one question, in fact I see it more as a complement to what my colleague, Maras, has brought before me. As representatives of the government, I think there are also lawyers in education, all of us who have taught the theory of the state and the rights know that the purpose of the legal norm is to be clear and concise, to clearly reflect what the legislator wanted to say and to have sufficient capacity to make the wish of the legislator, i.e. the aim of that legal standard come true. In my view, and I tend to be able to interpret the legal norm because I am a professor of law school, point 1) and point 2) have quite enough capacity to achieve the objective of this law, or what the legislator, or legislator was going to say, so I would like to get an explanation why our amendment is not accepted, because point 1) and 2) have quite enough capacity for what the objective is, and point 3 gives the possibility of abuse. Among other things, the aim of a legal norm is to prevent abuse, so I would like to hear an explanation why our amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4885	Anyone else want a word? The word has a proposing representative, Minister Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4886	Ladies and gentlemen, as with this previous member, I would like to point out once again to the motions of this amendment that the reason for the refusal of their amendment does not lie in the fact that any abuse of this provision or any conspiratory work against foreigners is wanted. This is exclusively about the measures and the activities undertaken by every country in the world when it comes to protecting the constitutional order, that is, the security of our country. Even in the most democratic and most developed countries, as they call themselves, there are far more restrictive provisions concerning the possibilities of such work. I must also remind myself that today our ministry has arrested a three-member group, of which two BiH citizens, who intended to commit a serious crime here in the territory of the Republic of Serbia by planting a large amount of explosives. It is impossible to perform certain laws of the prescribed function and of our ministry and security services unless there is one such authority. We have discussed and discussed what you have suggested, whether this first position allows and whether everything that we are talking about can be counted within it. The proposal is to remain such a formulation exclusively for these reasons, to prevent all forms of violations of our public order, endangering security, and especially considering that our territory can also be an area where various terrorist activities are being carried out, and especially activities related to organised crime. The last position of this member is that which prevents abuse. It speaks of the collection, processing and use of personal data on foreigners being carried out in accordance with a special law governing the protection of personal data. It seems to me exactly the law that is on the agenda of this session, so that they are complementary and I think that, if both of these laws are passed, that, on the one hand, they will be made possible by our state bodies dealing with the protection of public order and peace and security services to carry out their work, and, on the other hand, they will allow human rights and freedoms of course and foreigners in our territory. So, as with the previous member, regardless of what different comments may be heard from different political parties, the aim of our ministry, which is the legislator of this law on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is precisely, as I said, that these laws be in line with the legislation of the European Union. So they are not a distraction, nor are they destroying the credibility of these laws regarding harmonisation with European standards. It is precisely these provisions that exist almost in all the laws of the world, and especially if it is known that some countries that have been victims of terrorist attacks have passed special laws concerning the fight against terrorism, which greatly violate the rights and freedoms of foreigners on their territory, which, as you know, is a major debate both in their parliaments and in their publics, does this mean limiting their freedoms and rights. So I'm asking you not to take this as a pledge to keep some restrictive norms to keep our law, so to speak, to keep it in some definitions that may be a reflection of some ancient past. It is not that, here it is that the opening of our country, the liberalisation of our country, and the liberalisation of the visa regime, and for our citizens and for the citizens of other countries when they enter our country, does not mean that our country on that side can be a territory where they can be uninterrupted and without any control to carry out any acts concerning organised crime or international terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4887	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. The time available for the LDP parliamentary group is two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4888	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, first I would like to congratulate the members of your ministry on the work well done, but you've tried to replace the thesis a little bit. We haven't talked so much about restrictiveness, you've stated that some laws, or laws of some other countries, are even more restrictive. We tried to indicate that this point 3 of this attitude is too general. Maybe there's a possibility that we haven't found it, you have probably better experts when it comes to such a thing, to find a much better and more specific formulation for this point. We predicted that she was deleted, because she's too general. Because it allows abuse when it's so composed. There wasn't just so much talk of restrictiveity that you were referring to other countries. We just think it's too general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4889	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word of the people is the Messenger Milorad Buh, and the messenger of the people is Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4890	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr and colleague Vitomir Plužarevic has submitted an amendment to Article 78. The bill also points out in its amendment that this amendment corrects Article 78(2) to replace the words "the Minister responsible for Home Affairs with the consent of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the record referred to in Article 2(2) of the Foreign Affairs Minister with the agreement of the Minister of Internal Affairs" with the words "the Ministry of Internal Affairs with the agreement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the record of the 2nd term of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the agreement of the Ministry of Interior". The explanation is similar to that of the previous members. The government refused this amendment for the same reasons, we heard more. I don't want much of this amendment, since all the amendments to this character have been refused. Here are the representatives of the ministry, I will warn them of certain things that happen in practice to persons and foreigners, refugees, asylum seekers and all those who come into the situation to seek certain personal documents before the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. According to legal provisions in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia to obtain a particular personal document, it is necessary to obtain certain documentation. The documentation as a rule for Serbian citizens is supplied to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Refugees, asylum seekers are obliged to obtain that documentation in their home countries. I am now talking about the situation that is happening to refugees from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, who must go to the Republic of Croatia for this documentation. In order to go to the Republic of Croatia, they must lose one working day or two, especially those who lived and had a residence earlier in Dalmatia, Banja, Lici, Kordun, at least two days, and perhaps three days to obtain the document. To obtain this document, the administrative fee should be spent to obtain it from the Croatian authorities, on the other hand to spend one, two, three days and material resources. Going there earlier a Croatian citizen to request one of the documents spends funds on everything that practically our state body has. And what does the state body of the Republic of Serbia have? There's a document, when I say one, it's either a ID card or there's something else in the documentation -- refugee records, birth certificate, birth certificate, marriage certificate, citizenship credentials, etc. There's already that in the paperwork, in all the documents I mentioned. They have all the necessary personal data - name, father or mother, last name, place of birth, date of birth, unique birth number, former residence and other necessary things. Now, he went to Croatia, spent the funds, came here, got that document, got, let's say the solution to citizenship. In order to get a ID card, they don't usually match, but in the meantime, the document expired, because I don't know by what rule and by what law all the personal documents relating to the assurance of citizenship, the birth certificate, marriages, etc. They've been with us and in Croatia for six months. To get a ID, he must go back to Croatia, to get a passport he must go back to Croatia. Five hundred thousand Serbs from Croatia or close to 500,000 Serbs were obliged to deliver the document. Let's see what's monetary. About a hundred euros is needed for administrative expenses, for journeys there and back and for all other costs. At 500,000 times a hundred, it comes to you 50 million euros for one document. All Serbs who were on the occasion, who were all committed, spent 50m euros, and 50m euros for a ID card, and 50m euros for a passport. What do we suggest? You've got it in the file. It's a game of big numbers, no one thinks about it. What do we care? We give it to the Croats. We have a lot of money, these refugees are full of money, let's help some Croats. We currently have 97,000 refugees, we have hundreds of thousands of Serbs who are undefined status. Someone's got citizenship, and he's got no ID, someone's in a different situation, he's got citizenship and ID, and he needs a passport, so he's got to go there. Only that 97 plus one hundred thousand is 200,000, per 100 euros that's 20 million euros; so let's not throw, we don't have. Let's keep it here. The law doesn't have to change, the law doesn't even ask for it. You have legal regulations that clearly say: a state body based on, that is, the General Administrative Procedure Act, Article 170, which tells you that you can, on the basis of the documents you have, issue credentials and other documents, and based on the documentation you have. You've got the paperwork. Don't let us put people in a position, first they're exiled, on the other hand the Croats don't give them pensions, don't give them action, we talked about it all, they don't give this and that little money they have in their pocket, let's spend it too. We force them into Croatia and fill the Croatian budget. Why? There's really no need. Think about it. I also said that when we discussed citizenship, I said that when travel documents were being discussed, etc. Think about it, there's a lot of resources, let it stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4891	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4892	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this law, as the motionor put it, is the Government, came from the Constitution, Article 39(3). It is not a problem for those who are welcome in Serbia's territory, but rather a problem for those who are not welcome. You know, surely since 99, a man who shouldn't be welcome in Serbia's territory, that's Solana, who killed over 2,000 innocents in Serbia, who destroyed schools, hospitals, economic goods, and you're receiving him on some curtous visit or official visit here in Serbia. That is what, very important, according to this law -- which foreigners are welcome and which are not. Look at Ahtisaari who has become, unfortunately, a Nobel laureate, but a man who has done great evil to Serbia. First, by his Kumanovski agreement, when he forced former President Milosevic to sign the agreement, which you yellows keep mentioning, as well as in what way he betrayed, back then, Serbia. That's not true. Ahtisaari was one of those who forced those patriots to sign that shameful pact. What we can say further, see in recent history, that is Ollie Rehn, so that I do not speak of many others who do and whose task it is allegedly to introduce Serbia into the EU by certain democratic laws. That is why here, in this Article 78, it says "International offenders who are forbidden to enter the Republic of Serbia". Mr. Vita Plužarevic wanted to improve this article with this amendment, as well as the amendment that I discussed at Article 28, that there was no minister, but the ministry. It is the ministry that will assess whether someone is responsible or not to come to Serbia's territory. You see here various inscriptions in the newspaper, where some Croatian tycoons appear who buy in the Vojvodina land, do not mind entering their birth certificate, to see what their fathers were, their grandfathers. No, it's important for you to have someone come in, with whom you've established some kind of relationship, where you can get some kind of individual benefit, that's the most important thing to you. This is why this amendment aims to prevent such people who have done evil to Serbia, who are in the near future, come on, go that way, let's forget what once happened or happened, as such an evil done to this people, but in some mild future you can't forget it and not forget it. The other day, ladies and gentlemen, Friday night when we were discussing and when I was talking about some people who have also done evil to this country with their behavior. Then Zoran Ostojic of the LDP came out for this pay phone, wanted to say as an ex-journalist that this is the misbehavior of some MPs who mention some people, whether in a negative or positive connotation. Understand, however, we readers read, as the Wolf said -- read as it was written, read at the time that individuals were calling, calling on the NATO Alliance to bomb Serbia and the Serb people, not yet calmed down, it is still necessary to inflict additional sacrifices and destroy certain economic goods because, allegedly, they are not yet good, they have not yet accepted what they need to accept. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to individuals here, I agree with individuals about the increase in the price of gas, but probably many of you haven't been businessmen since the 1990s. I worked at a mineral fertiliser factory in Sapac and unfortunately, such factories no longer exist in Serbia's territory. The only energy available to us that the nation could survive, and now I'm going to tell you how the nation survived, was just gas. Thanks to the Russians, the production of the mineral fertiliser factory in Sapac has not been interrupted. It is not interrupted because it has allowed farmers, farmers to sow agricultural crops, to harvest them and feed the nation. You see how our great friends of the Russians made it possible for you during this period of great economic crisis, and I must tell you, during the bombing, the continuity of supplying this energy is not interrupted. Please, when you talk about these people, speak with dignity, because they are the only friends of the Serb people. Understand, what I'm telling you is true, because most of you probably started a working relationship for the first time here in the Assembly, and they don't know what it was like for businessmen in that period, to maintain the continuity of life in Serbia. It's very important when you talk about a friend. (President: 15 minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. You're talking about the EU, you're talking about your friends who killed, you're destroying businesses, and those who helped you call you enemies. That's what you yellows can't understand. It's probably important to you to respect what you came to power for, because only in the west of 2000 did he allow you, in a criminal way, a rude way, to come to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4893	Anyone else want to talk about the discussion in particular? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Judita Popović, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Slobodan Maras together submitted to the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4894	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our amendment to Article 82 of the Law is in direct contact with Article 75 of the 1st and 2nd, therefore, in direct connection with the amendment that we have submitted to that Article on the 75th Law on Foreigners. We suggested that it be deleted, for the same reasons we suggested that Articles 1 and 2 be deleted. I couldn't add anything else, because everything's already been said about article 75 and those two members' attitudes. I would only suggest once again to delete these criminal provisions that provide for rather large fines for legal persons who would have sinned against that Article in paragraphs 1 and 2. Moreover, a safeguard measure for the prohibition of the exercise of activity, for the provision of services, for the accommodation of foreigners by a legal person who has not acted within the meaning of that Article 75, is also foreseen. I'd just like to add one more thing I forgot to add. Mr. Minister, it is not the usual bang in the world, especially in this developed world that you mentioned, that the same way is regulated by the registration of foreigners as you have overlooked this proposal for a law on foreigners in Article 75, paragraphs 1 and 2 because already at the time of entering the country, so when you cross the state border, the parties entering the country are recorded. For example, in the UK, you already get on a plane to fill out a particular form that's being handed over at the border, so there's no subsequent check-in at the hotel or at the host's house. It's just pure information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4895	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84, MP Dejan Mirovic, the government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4896	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to article 84. Proposal for a foreign law. The amendment seeks to increase penalties from 10,000 to 50,000 to 100,000 to 100,000 dinars. In his explanation, the promoter stated that the amendment was rejected due to the existence of an alternative safeguard measure to distance foreigners from our country's territory. Apparently, this safeguard measure is enough because it achieves the aim of every sanction, which is prevention. But that argument used by the promoter suggests that the amount of punishment is insufficient. According to Serbia's official exchange rate since 17 October 2008, the amount of fines provided for in article 84 has ranged from about 120 to 600 euros. For foreigners from rich EU countries, this is not an amount that would be a significant blow to their standard, nor would it lead to prevention. For example, this can be concluded by comparing the level of punishment with the following data. In Germany GDP per capita in 2007, it was about $34,000, in France GDP per capita in 2007 was 32,000, in the Netherlands it amounted to as much as $40,000. Thus, it is as if the promoter was thinking only about foreigners coming from poor countries when writing article 84. It's as if he's ruled out the possibility that citizens of wealthy countries can violate our laws. Whether it's some kind of discrimination, self-esteem, requirements from Brussels or accidental failure, that's a particular question. It is also significant that the provisions of Article 84 are linked to those of Article 10. It's a bill of law. In Article 10. The bill regulates illegal entry into the Republic of Serbia. The position of the 3rd member states that illegal entry into the Republic of Serbia is considered to be an entry using someone else's invalid, i.e. fake travel or other documents, and in paragraph 4, it is said that this is the giving of false information to the border police. These provisions cannot be objected in a formal legal sense, but in practice, because of our mildly vague and confusing foreign policy, which is trying to convince us of the impossible, more precisely in the phrase that EU entry and preservation of KIM within Serbia are possible, these provisions can lead to the following problematic situations. For example, what will happen if our authorities do not allow the entry of a person who has a passport from the phantom state of Kosovo. Will Brussels ask our authorities to respect one of the foundations of the EU, the principle of free movement of people? I remind you, almost all EU countries have already recognised Kosovo's false creation, also, the deputy head of the European rule of law mission or Eulexa, Roy Rif, said already on September 23rd 2008, that the mission expects Belgrade's support. So, what happens if some high-ranking Eulexa, who works on so-called. The establishment of the law, he says to our border police that he lives and works in the very thing called the state of Kosovo. Does this fall under Article 10(4) on the provision of false information? In these situations that are realistic, how will our competent state authorities behave? These are very complicated questions for our authorities. That's more than clear when you look at the reasoning of the law. It also states that it is adopted because of the outdated old law and the collapse of the SCG. These are certainly reasons that can hardly be challenged. But it is said to be brought on account of European standards. What does this mean in practice, which are standards and how it will apply to the KiM issue, is not difficult to assume. Of course, no one reasonable can be against the possibility that our citizens have the right to travel across the EU, but in this case it is not all ideal. The artificial euphoria created by Schengen has several limiting factors. For example, the euphoria that affected the masses in Bucharest's markets in early 2002 because of Romania's accession to the Schengen regime has dimmed the fact that it has had at least 500 euros in terms of travel to the EU. In this context, the so-called “supervised ” should also be observed. The map of the road that Jacques Barrot, the vice-president of the European Commission, brought to Belgrade in May 2008. Serbia, among other things, is asked to accept a large number of citizens who are illegally staying in the EU or readmission, and in return, promises that only 2009 will we be able to travel without visas. In addition, on a visit to Belgrade on 7 May 2008, Jacques Baro himself admitted that the visa liberalisation plan, drawn up by the European Commission and approved by the states, was conditioned by full and unreserved implementation of the readmission agreement. So first, about 150,000 people from the EU should return to Serbia, so visa relief can be discussed. Otherwise, the number of 150,000 people is an official estimate, long ago carried out by an assistant director of human and minority rights services in an interview. In the end, our citizens need to know the following facts. Maja Kovacevic, the former head of the EU's accession office, said the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is not related to visa waiver. Also in 2001, Macedonia signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but its citizens still cannot travel to the EU without a visa. The Schengen area was expanded with a large media pump in 2008 to nine new countries, to the Baltic states, Malta, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Latvia, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia. But in practice, the Czechs and the Poles complained of humiliating conditions on the roads in the German and Austrian interior. Czech Prime Minister Miroslav Topalekje had to protest that Germany and Austria are violating Schengen freedoms on roads near borders. Similar controls within 30km of the border were also complained by Polish authorities. The Polish citizens even claimed that the situation is much worse now than before entering the Schengen area, as baggage, personal luggage, and not allowed out of the car are being searched. So again the practice was different from the promises from Brussels. It is therefore necessary to adopt an amendment to Article 84 and adapt the bill, but also state policy, reality. The phrases and promises from Brussels don't make you live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4897	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is seven minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will again address the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the presence of the first Vice-President and Minister of the Interior to take note of all that the representatives of the SRS say. I'm going to present some more facts that have come to light and into the circle of government. Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobibic held several meetings with representatives of the Krajisnik Citizens' Association, who were expelled from the Republic of Croatia. The meetings were on a very high level and I will state and quote certain statements by Mr. Krkobbic, which clearly indicates that not only he, probably other representatives of the government, understood the situation in which the population in Republika Srpska was avoided. I will also note that the Republika Srpska government has repeatedly informed all state authorities about all the problems the Krajisniks face and find solutions, however, it warns, on the contrary, we do not have a real talker to try to solve these problems together. At one of the meetings, Prime Minister Krkobic said that the government must insist on the consistent implementation of the Sarajevo Declaration, the Agreement on Succession and the Vienna Agreement, I do not know what the Vienna Agreement is, whether it is accidentally spoken or something that awaits us, but it is important that it is said by the government's representatives. He is in charge as vice president for refugee and internally displaced issues and we expect that the right platform for negotiations with Croatia will be formed. Then we saw that the United Nations High Commissioner announced talks with the Croatian side in the 12th month and that these talks should bring about the right solutions. We haven't had them yet, so we can understand each other. It is interesting to hear another statement from the Deputy Prime Minister, who says - the Republic of Croatia consciously, tends to slow down the process of return, return of property, return of apartments, the exercise of the right to retire, the exercise of the right to work. So what we agreed today clearly confirms the Deputy Prime Minister. This has to be a warning and an alert in the government. All these phenomena we've been talking about should upset the government and all the state authorities. The financial figures that we've put out here need to worry even more, to shake up the government because they're huge funds standing in the safes of the Republic of Croatia and it does nothing to put them into office, to bring them back to whoever they belong to. I would like to warn, particularly the Ministry of the Interior, that there are still murders, persecutions, harassments, detentions for information talks in Croatia. You have this information, but no information has been provided by the state authority. Croatians have various discrimination procedures that prevent Serbs from exercising their rights. The state authorities of Serbia are silent about it. We can't keep this quiet. Deputy Prime Minister Krkobic put it this way first, this is harshly said, but it is true. Now I expect both him and the government and other state authorities to go into the realisation of everything that's been said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4899	Anyone else want a word? (No) Ambassador Milan Skrbic has submitted to Article 85 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to article 85 was tabled by SRS MP Mr Milan Škrbic. In Article 85(1), the words "6,000 to 30,000" are replaced by the words "20,000 to 100,000". Something similar to Amendment 84, which was explained by Mr Mirovic. We think these penalties are extremely low and should be increased at least to this amount that counterpart Skrbic cited in this amendment. These fines that are in the proposal are so small that our penalties for traffic violations are approximately at that level. In addition, on the status of people who have been avoided and who have been exiled, who have come into Serbia's territory, I will now provide you with some information as to how local self-government, which deals with its coalition partner exclusively in the interests of citizens and in the interests of people who are neither guilty nor obliged to be expelled from their hearths. Since the beginning of the war in the former Yugoslavia, a large number of refugees, exiled and displaced persons have moved into the mussel municipality. Widely, the Outpost has opened the door to these people forced to leave their hearths, doing all they can to help them solve their existential problems. Thanks to that, many of them have stayed in this environment forever. Despite the fact that four refugee settlements were built, these are Odzacs, Srpski Miletic, Baki Gracac, Baki Brestovac, with 96 residential units, yet 189 families have unfortunately no settled housing issue. In the course of this year alone, 12 families received 6,000 euros to resolve housing status, out of which 3,000 is grants, and 3,000 as a non-ambiguous loan for 10 years. For 12 families, the amount of 1,500 euros has been provided to improve housing conditions. That the number of those who do not have a solution will be lower in the coming period and that, thanks to an Italian humanitarian organisation, they will soon approach the construction of 30 housing units, where local self-government has provided complete infrastructure, with water, land that will be given for free to our people who have been exiled. In addition to resolving the housing issue, a number of other actions and programmes related to active job search, business plans and company registration were launched during this year. Of the 45 Vojvodina municipalities, the gnome municipality was among the six involved in the latest action by the Serbian Democratic Forum, which referred to the programme of active job-seeking. Ten of the 43 participants participating in the programme were provided with grand packages worth 1,500 euros. Twelve people became the beneficiary of a grand package ranging from 1,000 euros to 1,600 euros for business plans and company registration. In two circles, seven families received large packages worth 240,000 dinars and 40,000 dinars in cash. Based on a life support contract, only seven families from Serbia were granted assistance in the first round of this campaign, three of which were from our municipality, and one from Vranja, Leskovci, Umka and Nis. Such a relationship has a municipality where Serbian radicals, Mr Dacic, with the SPS in the coalition, have been implementing power for 18 years. We have the permanent presence of various foreign agents, secret services, spies who go through Serbia, do whatever they want, come to our country, behave more comfortablely than in their home, without any control, and that is possible because our government and president of the state are not protecting the interests of the Serbian and Serbian people, but are working on the orders of Washington and Brussels to break Serbia. It's been a hundred days of this government. What did we get in a hundred days? Apparently, we are in a hurry to pass as many laws as possible to get closer to the EU, and the truth is that the EU does not want Serbia. Serbia will not, for one thing, be respected by the laws, which corruption and crime are rising from day to day, which is traded in narcotics, human beings, which is supported by thieving. Here, we are the only parliament in the world where people whose political party did not participate in the elections sit in parliamentary benches. There is no democracy in Serbia, but a man's dictatorship. The EU knows how the government is formed, primarily by disrespecting the will of citizens and by buying votes. They know it's unsustainable and it's simply an impossible mission, so they tried to break the SRS. Unfortunately, Serbia repeats history -- the godfather of the godfather. Serbia today has Vuk Brankovic in the image of Tomislav Nikolic. The SRS has come out of this failed coup stronger. We drank the castus and just cleaned ourselves up. Did the "yellow dictator" say, "I will not allow power to be formed in Belgrade?" "And the coalition was torn apart. The will of the citizens of Belgrade is simply not respected. What kind of mayor did we get as the capital? We got the mayor in the image of Dragan Gilas. Do you think the EU has not been informed and has not watched the last session of the City Assembly, when the mayor of Belgrade has been cursing and insulting and in a way that is not suitable even at fairs to communicate with the councilors in the City Assembly, and with the SRS boardman? Does such a man deserve and can be mayor of Belgrade? What have we got in a hundred days of government? Accepting an initiative at the UN that the International Court is justifying an opinion on the independence of the illegal state of Kosovo. The next day immediately, the slap - brotherly Montenegro and friendly Macedonia recognise Kosovo. It's simply a disaster, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The prime minister says he would especially point out for these 100 days mutual respect and tolerance. What it means to him is probably just he knows, and we assume they don't want to interfere with each other in the vaults, to make the Republic of Serbia's budget as hungry as possible. A special story is the Duke's statute. A special story is a statement by Bojan Pajtic on Wednesday morning, addressing a radio station, which is the most heard in Vojvodina, when he said, "Good morning, Vojvodina, we are finally free." The statement by Bojan Pajtic will have to explain here in the Assembly and Boris Tadic, whether it leads definitely to the secession of Vojvodina. We know in which way we will defend that statute here in the congregation. We had an examination here of the Higher Education Act. Everything done in Serbia and all that has been done to Serbian citizens since 2000 is not an accident. Western oligarchs, through domestic traitors, want to destroy and kill national dignity to the Serbian people, but will certainly not succeed. It won't work as long as the SRS has a representative, until she has a president we expect next year. We Serbian radicals have no other way to address our citizens and protect their interests, except here in the Assembly. It's a total block of media and everything towards the SRS. That's what the whole of Serbia sees. So we will make every effort to use this pay phone and defend all those citizens who voted for us. Where are the laws that protect Serbia's interests? Let's just look at it for a little while, we're sure to ask the Minister of Agriculture to come here and explain a lot of things to us. All subsidies that went towards agriculture, I am talking about 120 euros per hectare subsidies, until the May 11th elections, have been paid to the weekly complete demands that have arrived. In conclusion with today's day, believe it or not, it was paid on May 14th. Imagine how long it's been since the election. The question is, where's the money? We Serbian radicals certainly know where the money is, are spent in the elections, as well as the Capital Investment Fund from the AP Vojvodina, and also, when the time comes, we will have something to say to our citizens. Protect the state of Serbia, protect our national goods. The land is bought by Croatian tycoons. Do you know how many cooperatives there are in Vojvodina for buying Croatian tycoons, how many processing factories there are also for buying Croatian tycoons, but they continue. There are still quite a number of cooperatives that the directors, who, above all, are responsible for their work, have somehow protected these cooperatives and will have to privatise themselves. At least let's keep it, so it doesn't go towards the Croatian tycoons. They better buy our people, too, but don't let them come here. What's that gonna mean? I'm sure many amendments Mr. Dacic would accept, but he probably can't and he'll give an explanation. I understand it is not easy to live a loveless marriage, but I hope the time will come when we will allow Serbian citizens to live a life worthy of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4901	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljević. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4902	Not to dispute the constitutional basis for passing such a law, I think this law might have been a little better prepared. First of all, solving the status of refugees, the issue of displaced, missing, as well as their economic status. If we had solved these dilemmas, we would have talked a lot easier now about people who are truly foreigners, their entry into the country and simplifying the procedures for issuing visas. Little does this look like the adoption of some Monden laws, all yearning to join the EU, which actually wants us far less than it represents. What's also important and what should be mentioned, but from what I'm going to fence, it's that you might be talking about introducing more order, discipline, culture, treating foreigners who are entering our country, but of course I'm going to abstain, because a growing number of our citizens are becoming foreigners in my own country. Article 87. The proposal for a law on foreigners is part of the transitional and final provisions. Under Article 87(1) of the Law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to adopt a regulation on closer conditions for the refusal of foreigners to enter the Republic of Serbia within 6 months of the derogation. Article 3 of the Article 87 obliges the Minister of Foreign Affairs to lay down within six months of the date of entry into force of this law the rules on the application for the issue of visas, obtaining the consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the manner of issuing visas, the appearance of the form, the content and manner of issuing a special identity card, as well as other forms. The SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 87(3) that instead of saying, the minister responsible for foreign affairs is replaced by a sentence -- the ministry responsible for foreign affairs. The reasons for the submission of this amendment are absolutely legal, because in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia only state authorities have the right to lay down rules governing the exercise of certain rights, obtaining public documents, meeting the conditions for the exercise of rights, the way in which they are kept, the conditions and the way in which they are made available to those records, while this right cannot belong to the elders of those bodies. The minister is an authority elder, so it should be done by the ministry, not by the minister. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4903	Anyone else want a word? Yes, the word has a People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4904	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what SRS MP Mr. Buha was talking about refugee problems, about resolving their status, about documentation that could be very difficult to take out in places where they were born, and also about solving problems related to houses, about estates, about apartments, I think there is one big solution that probably Interior Minister Dacic could use, which is one of the family ties between the interior minister in Sanader's government, that's Lovrin Ana, and here your DS MP is Daniela Lovrin, who could probably help solve all these problems about refugees and solving certain problems. This is not a pathetic question, but I really want certain family relationships to be exploited, so that people can get to a solution to their problems as quickly as possible. I think Mr. Buha has absorbed it quite well, saying how much it should cost the Republic of Serbia, and how much in this respect does the Republic of Croatia receive, in order to be able to collect certain documentation and resolve the status of their property. I believe and believe that Minister Dacic will take advantage of what I did and refer to MP DS Daniel Lovrin, who will use all of his relatives' ties to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4905	People's MP, this is on the verge of public announcement of accepting corruption. You can't ask from the National Assembly's pay phone to use family ties beyond the law, that's very close. People's MPs are getting it said ironic. In that case, I withdraw my position because I cannot believe that MP Srboljub Zivanovic would be prone to corruption and public announcement after a pay phone saying that institutions should not be used but related ties. Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic, a replica to the presentation of the National MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. Is it a replica or is it a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4906	Article 104. Indeed, by your exposure, Mr. Zivanovic, you insult the dignity of this National Assembly, but also the dignity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who watch this and in the extreme case of those who voted for the SRS. I think it's extremely inappropriate what you've said. In fact, Mrs. Lovrin is absolutely no relative to me, and it's not only inappropriate, as I said, but extremely rude, and therefore I ask you never to use this pay phone again and to tell such lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4907	Anyone else want a word per article 87? No, I don't. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4908	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable ministers, the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS to Article 91(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The bill of the word 'Minister in charge of Home Affairs and Minister of Foreign Affairs' is replaced by 'Minister of Interior and Ministry of Foreign Affairs'. In the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, only state authorities have the right to lay down rules determining the exercise of certain rights, to obtain public documents, to fulfil the conditions for the exercise of rights, to keep records, to make conditions available to those records, while the law does not belong to the managers of those bodies. In a specific case of regulation, i.e. a sublegal act should be adopted by the government and the competent ministry on the basis of this bill, not by the police and foreign ministers, as set out in the bill. Since this law on the movement and residence of foreigners was passed in 1989 under the SFRY Constitution, and on several occasions it was amended and amended, so that its solutions were overcome. With the need for the Republic of Serbia as an independent state for the first time, and in line with the new constitution, to make the issue of entry, movement and residence of foreigners on its territory, other than constitutional reasons for the adoption of this bill is also an assumption that the state of Serbia should meet to join European integration. But I cannot understand this European government with such European laws, which wants to go to Europe as soon as possible, without a piece of its territory, without KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4909	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment, a Member of Marina Toman was sent. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has the word, and the People's Messenger Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4910	In the end, to round up one continent, it is necessary anyway. When we entered the project of restoring the work of the former Republika Srpska Assembly and forming the Serbian Krajina government, we took into account all that I was saying today and what the representatives of the SRS said. The reasons are today. They're famous for all the Krajis. The only thing that has been happening since 2000 is that every current government has turned its back on us, and it has turned its back on the international community. However, the geopolitical image of the world is changing. Perhaps you had no understanding of the Krajis, the refugees, the internally displaced faces, you - will have someone else. I'd say two more sentences. One is, behind all this, huge funds, huge money, huge property and social rights that are denied to Serbs. The assessment of the Republika Srpska government in persecution is that it is worth 30 billion euros. I tried to go from item to item, so it ends up at 30m euros. It must be added to the lost profit for the inability to use property, all that belongs to Serbs and cannot be used. That's about 20 billion euros and a total of 20 plus 30, that's 50 billion euros. One more sentence. This country has spent huge resources. Instead of forcing, according to international law, in accordance with international agreements with Croatia, the return of Serbs to their hearths, the possibility of cashing in property that is there, the introduction of that property here, etc. One more budget. The budget says that these are the funds Serbia has allocated for -- for refugees 12 billion euros, and for internally displaced persons 5 billion euros -- this was paid by Serbia, instead of paying all the funds of the Republic of Croatia and the Cypriots from Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4911	The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4912	Mrs. Comic, I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to all of you, I'll be very brief, but I had to react. I want to ask you for a notice from Mrs Comic, but also from Mr Tadic, I think we have the right, and from the Serbian government -- are you from the DS coalition with Tomislav Nikolic? Here, I've just been told he's in breaking news on some TV, and we can't be present anywhere, only in this home and this pay phone, is the DS coalition with Tomislav Nikolic? I think so. Mr. Dacic, I am speaking to you as Minister of Police and as First Deputy Prime Minister of the Government. So, for this speaker, I say that Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic are no longer close to the tycoons -- I say they are tycoons. I'm telling you, you're gonna have to arrest me or them, and I'm gonna be cooperative and I'm gonna prove they're tycoons, they're not tycoons anymore. The DS allows them to visit and tell their story on all televisions. Just now, Tomislav Nikolic was on one television, telling his story. I had to come to you and ask you that and tell you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4913	Is anyone else answering for a word in the discussion in particular? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, I ask the MPs to take their seats, the debate in particular is completed, so that we can, by procedure, end the debate in particular for this item of the agenda. Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? The word has a proposing representative, Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're done earlier than I expected, so I have enough time to elaborate a little longer what I have to say. Anyway, I'm a little bit of a joke, of course, since some MPs are already ready to go, but I've been here since 10:00 in the morning, and you've seen that I haven't left at all, or I've been in politics for years, and I know patience is a very desirable thing. If you leave the MPs' benches quickly, someone will be here soon for you. Therefore, I invite you to do your job well for which you have been chosen. Anyway, I want to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate. I think that regardless of what may have been said and about topics that are not exactly part of this law, I must express my satisfaction that we have discussed and mentioned other topics that are of great importance in general to the political situation in Serbia. At the beginning, as the story of fascism and anti-fascism is current these days, let me congratulate all citizens of Belgrade -- Belgrade Liberation Day, October 20th. I think it's dates we shouldn't forget, so we won't be in a situation where the police have to intervene. It's not a police matter, it's a matter of politics. That's why I congratulate all the citizens of Belgrade on Liberation Day. In addition, the top state officials and officials of Belgrade today laid flowers and wreaths on graves and monuments of those who freed Belgrade in 1944. Of course, another story is that today, perhaps in Belgrade and other Serbian cities, we almost have no street any of those who participated in the release of Belgrade, and then the police need to address whether 200 or 300 neo-Nazis are going to threaten Belgrade. That is why I call on the political parties to assist the police in their political behaviour in order to preserve public order and peace. This is not only solved by banning and breaking up demonstrations, but also by political activities. Why the haste to pass this law? It's not a rush. The previous government, as you know, has agreed with the European Union so-called The map of the road to the European Union. The 6th and 7th November is an international conference in Zagreb, where the so-called countries are discussed. The Western Balkans crossed on that road map. And someone here was also talking about it, and I don't know if Mr. Bhuha, since he's been out to talk more than once, and I think he's an MP who understands it quite well this time towards the European Union, and I'm glad that in such an argument we can talk about it and debate it. It is true that the transitional agreement, i.e. the Association and Association Agreement, does not also mean the liberalisation of the visa regime. Also, visa liberalisation does not mean a transitional agreement and its defrosting. The liberalisation of the visa regime depends primarily on whether we are able to pass laws, to adapt them to European standards and whether we are able to apply them, whether we are able to protect our borders, to have good border control, whether we are able to simply have a good set of laws in the field of justice. That's why this is the Ministry of the Interior, if you vote in the voting day of the law on foreigners and the state border control law, has fulfilled all the laws we need to propose from our portfolio. There are several laws left from the Department of Justice and the adoption of several strategies, and of course, the issue of new personal documents, which should be with sufficient level of protection to prevent illegal migration and illegal border crossings or counterfeiting of these documents. Refugees; here we have accepted the amendment you have given, however, is not the subject of this law to regulate refugee problems. Refugees and displaced faces, so to speak, they're one big problem of our society. It is not only a problem of integration in Serbia, in our society, it may be an even bigger problem if their return to the countries from which they were expelled is possible and whether there is a fair compensation for lost property, for what you were talking about, for housing rights and everything else. And you know that we have repeatedly advocated that the state must co-ordinatedly highlight it, and especially when at various European forums some countries in this region are taken as examples of democracy, and they may in fact have had the biggest operations concerning the ethnic cleansing of a nation, as was the Serbian people from the territory of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. We have come to the meeting of your amendment, but I would also like to point out that the Law on Citizenship that we have brought is very helpful in solving these problems and the situations that you have mentioned. When it comes to members of our people, as you know, according to the Law on Citizenship, which has brought the last meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to members of our people, wherever we live in the world, without being fired from the citizenship of the state where they have their residence, we will also be allowed to gain our citizenship, so that they will not be considered foreigners. We have also accepted some amendments concerning the simplification of procedures, such as the need to obtain a document on whether or not someone is convicted and whether the procedure is being conducted, given the complications that arise in the time it takes for a stranger to obtain that document from his country, but there is one obligation left for those who want to keep living in Serbia. One question is whether anyone wants to stay here temporarily, and another question is whether they want to stay in this country all the time. Still, there's a need for that kind of paper. Speaking of these amendments that came from the LDP, although I don't see anyone present here right now, but thank you for those interventions, we've talked about it for a long time. There are people here who are from the secretariats of our ministry, there are people who are headed by the border police, foreign administration. We wanted to simplify the procedure as much as possible, but, as I said, we left some of the provisions that are necessary so far, which exist everywhere in the world, it is absolutely incorrect that there is no obligation in the world for hotels to report foreigners. In all the countries in the world, of course we don't know that because when we stay abroad we don't know what the obligations of these hotels are, every hotel in the world whenever some foreigners arrive is obliged to report to the competent state authority. That goes for automation. We simplified the whole process. It is also possible by e-mail and telephone application today. Some hotels in Belgrade are already doing it. The largest hotels in Belgrade via e-mail, e-mail, are carrying out that kind of communication with the interior ministry. So, no unnecessary complications and no violations of human rights and freedoms, and those where these foreigners come, and, of course, strangers themselves. Of course this law has been made in the past. I have to say, I don't think there's any good government in this country that thinks history starts from the day that this government was elected. Everything that was good and prepared and in previous governments, we will continue and support. Under the Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work, all the legislative projects that were in the assembly procedure were returned to the re-election of the government's first procedure. They've passed all the boards, and so has this law on foreigners and the state border control law. Once again, when we bring the Serbian government and the state authorities to the conclusion that those who need to write laws do not depend on which political party is at the head of a particular ministry or when we do not look at whose who is who, but what is the bill that comes before the MPs, then we will have one quality at work. I have to say, this legal project was good. You know that many political parties have also voted in favour of these legal projects of this ministry in the past term, and when it comes to the Law on Citizenship. Of course, there is no reason for anyone to deny that these laws were in the congregation procedure and in the last term. Unfortunately, they were not on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, with an apology that all amendments cannot be accepted, with a good will to discuss all problems, I want to invite all political parties in Serbia to distinguish what our party interest is, what is our political interest and what is our national and state interest. I think whether we are in favour of one or another political option, whether we are in favour of one or another political coalition, whether we are in favour of or against entering the European Union or other international organisations, that the interest of Serbian citizens is that they can travel freely, without visas, travel around the world. That is why I call on you that when we vote on all this, whether all the amendments are accepted or not, we have in mind the interest of the citizens of Serbia. If we adopt these laws in time, which are not at our national national damage, but rather, which help us to move forward, if we do these jobs in time, it can be expected that Serbia will be accepted in the next year – and Mr Buha is right when it points to various problems which, above all, concern European institutions, European unity, the Lisbon agreement, whether or not it will be accepted, European elections that will follow in the middle of next year, and on their case also the existence of a technical government of the European Commission that will, I say, be in power – I think it can be expected, if we meet what is next year, to liberalise the visa regime. To translate into our language, that Serbian citizens can travel to European Union countries without visas, and that is unrelated to whether they will be defrosted or not a political or transitional agreement with the European Union. So I invite you, not because of this ministry, not because of me as minister or deputy prime minister, not because of this ruling coalition, but because of the citizens of Serbia, to show that there are 100, 200, 300, 500 political parties in Serbia, and we have one country, one nation, we have citizens of this country, who are in the interest of being able to live better and travel around the world as it may have been, without visas.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-20-0.u4915	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before I inform you of the continuation of the work, I would like to join on behalf of the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, and on behalf of all of us MPs and MPs, to all who today congratulated Belgrade on the victory over fascism and Freedom Day 20 October. We continue the session tomorrow, October 21st, 2008, at 15.00 hours.
