ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6386	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs Munir Poturak and Radojko Obradovic. I would like to inform you that National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Ruzica Stojiljkovic, assistant director of the Treasury Administration. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Budget of Serbia for 2008. THE YEAR AND AMENDMENTS OF THE FINANCIAL PLANS OF THE REPUBLICAL FUND FOR THE PENSION AND INVALID SURVEILLANCE, NATIONAL SURVEILLANCE SERVICES AND THE REPUBLIC GOVERNMENTAL SURVEILLANCE SURVEILLANCE SURVEILLANCES (the follow-up in particular) Before we continue the discussion of the details, I remind you that we have stopped at the amendment to Sections 9, 15 and 54 of the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Šormaz, but before him, MP Miroslav Petkovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6387	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I have a question for the president of the National Assembly, but I hope the Vice President can give me an answer to that. In fact, Finance Minister Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic said in her opening statement at 15.30: "You always compromise, the most important thing is to put a limit to how long you can make the compromise. I think this compromise is reasonable, under the political circumstances. I consider it the Minister of Finance reasonable because I have not broken any of the rules of fiscal policy. So there are some rules, like rules of good behavior. These rules apply to fiscal policy; if you do not cross them, you run a responsible fiscal policy. I followed all the rules. "We in the principle debate and in the debate on amendments proved that not all rules were respected. The fact that no one can dispute is that the finance minister did not respect the law. In fact, the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia in Article 14 clearly states the deadlines for taking certain actions. The minister was scheduled to forward the 2009 draft budget to the government of the Republic of Serbia on time; the government of the Republic of Serbia was scheduled to refer the proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by 1 November. The final position of this article of the Law is that these deadlines must be respected. So, on November 1st, we were supposed to get a budget proposal for 2009. That obviously hasn't happened yet. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian citizens, the finance minister Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic has broken the Budget System Law in the most harsh way possible, and there is no compromise -- when the law is broken there is only one option, and that is that the finance minister resigns. I'm sorry she's not here today, there's Mr. Milosavljevic, so I hope you'll pass on to your colleague in the government what needs to be done. The question for the president of the assembly is - what did the president of the assembly do to keep this from happening? She had the opportunity to ask the government, since she knows that November 1st is the deadline until the 2009 draft budget is due to reach the National Assembly, an explanation for why this has not been done. I hope we get that answer. On Thursday and Friday, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr. Rade Obradovic's vice-president and many DSS MPs, pointed to this failure and we were patient by midnight and waited for the 2009 budget proposal to arrive. The fact is, that didn't happen. For some, it is obviously the most obstacles of the Rules of Procedure, to make a new Rules of Procedure, not to violate the Rules of Procedure, and to break the Constitution and the law, it seems to be considered quite normal in this Parliament. The fact is that the government is completely irresponsible and unable to resolve the financial crisis, which has affected the entire region, has reached Hungary, Greece, Bulgaria, Romania and if anyone thinks they will bypass Serbia, that it will be only small waves, I think he has been wrong. The DSS parliamentary group submitted a proposal Friday to set up a commission to monitor the global economic crisis and take measures to mitigate negative impacts on the economy and the economy of the Republic of Serbia. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. We think that the composition of this committee fully responds to the problems we can expect in the coming period, given that the members of the commission should also be the President of the Assembly, and the Prime Minister, Governor of the National Bank, the President of the Securities Commission and representatives of all parliamentary groups in the Republic Parliament. We hope that you will adopt this proposal, as you have responded to the DSS proposal, on 8 October, to adopt the deposit insurance law. Unfortunately, only after a month, November 5th, will we have a chance to discuss this. How urgent it is to say and the fact that it's been a month since. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6388	I ask the service of the National Assembly to make a request to the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to explain why the budget calendar by law is not respected, as MP Miroslav Petkovic has requested. As for the Assembly, the Assembly has a different calendar than the Government, but the MP is absolutely right that he wants to get an explanation why the government does not respect its budget calendar. The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6389	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting by members of 225 and 226 and requesting an explanation and notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from the Minister of Finance, who is not here today. I don't suppose she's here for the reason she broke the Budget System Act. Namely, in Article 14. The law on the budgetary system, it is a budgetary calendar, reads: "October 15th - Minister of Finance provides the Government with a draft budget of the Republic of Serbia and the financial plans of compulsory social security organisations; November 1st - the government adopts the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia and delivers it, together with a memorandum on budget and financial plans of mandatory social security organisations, the National Assembly". Today is November 3rd, we have not yet received the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia, so I am looking for an explanation why the government has violated the Budgetary System Act and has not delivered that notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6390	I would ask the service to refer a stenogram of Parliamentarian Arsen Đuric to the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to provide the requested notification. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6391	Dear People's MPs, I thank the chairman, we have learned that there are two calendars: the calendar on which the Government of the Republic of Serbia works and the second calendar on which this assembly works. The European Union is not going with the Gregorian calendar, but with July. Today is November 3rd, and according to the Budget Law, the government was obliged to submit a draft budget for 2009. Of course that's impossible, because we're still discussing budget rebalancing. The government, I have the impression, especially the finance minister, is in one awkward position, since it has to make a budget diametrically contrary to this rebalancing we're discussing today. It's not that simple for her. You have Mr. Mladjan Dinkic who announces economic growth, economic miracle, we and China will grow 10-15% a year. You have Mr. Krkobic who says others must save, while pensions must be 70% of guaranteed personal income. I think you're putting the finance minister in a very awkward situation, because if you insist so consistently and in principle on this principle, given that there are pressures to keep this budget restrictive and to reduce public spending, I think the only way you can agree with the finance minister about pensions and 70% is to take off salaries by one 30%. Given what you've promised, and if you haven't fulfilled any of your promises, it may happen to us, this accident may happen to the citizens to get paid, so that you simply keep your pre-election promise alone. It's amazing that this government is acting like a nog, keeping its head in the sand when, certainly, the effects of the global financial and economic crisis are already felt in our country. The government is not doing anything about this, and now I'm re-connecting it to the budget -- it's no accident that the budget is missing, because the government has shown over the past month that it is not leading any consistent policy. The DSS parliamentary group has proposed a 20,000-euro deposit insurance law. We were attacked by the Secretary of State, Mr. Ilic, if I'm not mistaken, that it's stupid, that it's unnecessary, that foreign deposits are absolutely safe in banks. We are facing the situation that the government is proposing seven or ten days later the same law on ensuring a deposit of 50,000 euros, with the announcement that it will also be 100,000 euros. In just those seven days of conflicting thinking... (Chairman: National MP, three minutes.) What member are you calling for to be injured? ) Okay, so once again I insist, I appeal to the parliamentary majority... (President: National MP, time has elapsed for the Rules of Procedure to highlight a member who has been injured. So, I'll finish, but I'm giving you one more distraction... (President: I thank you, People's Messenger. I'm being heard by the MPs. Without any doubt, you violated the Rules of Procedure on Friday; if you had any personal dignity, you would resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6392	Thank you, People's Messenger. Since you have not sent any request or invited a member, I can only answer your remarks about different calendars. So the government has an obligation that MPs warn of, and the deadlines foreseen for the Assembly are different than the Budget System Act provides for the government. Before we go any further, the word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure has been asked: National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, MP Velimir Ilic. Before I give my word to the People's Parliament, allow me to inform you of confirming the mandate of the People's MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly in order to enable his participation in the work. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the mandate to the MP. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Committee which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament finds confirmation of the mandate to the MP. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Miroslav Pejic chosen from the electoral list for European Serbia - Boris Tadic. I congratulate the MP on the election and invite her to enter the hall to participate in the session of the National Assembly. Another announcement on the resignation of the People's MP: you received the resignation of Miodrag Miljkovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same law, establish the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office ended before the election of MP Miodrag Miljkovic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia -- Boris Tadic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. The word now has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6393	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask for information that is extremely important for the work of this congregation and for all citizens of this country. Of course, it is already known that we have a completely irresponsible government in front of us, a completely incompetent government that is not able to cope with the sand and is absolutely not responding to everything that brings about the global crisis that is clearly shaking around the whole world and, of course, cannot bypass Serbia which is both a poor country and a country in transition. Inside the government, we have a realisation of political party settlements, and that's why it's impossible to get to something better than she's known for the situation in the 1990s when we had inflation, when we devalued the dinar and led the country to a situation that was difficult to extract from today. Instead of the government, and today it is November 3rd, November 1st, to bring to the Assembly a proposal for a new budget for 2009, we are baffled by the rebalance of the budget which is completely unnecessary or is only there to cover what has already been spent. I'll remind you, since we have a story that some government deadlines are at stake here, it's the legal deadlines for a budget to be found before us on November 1st. I will say this: On 1 October the Government, on a proposal from the Minister, adopts a revised budget memorandum, taking into account after 30 April the updated macroeconomic framework; on 15 October the Minister delivers the draft budget of the Republic to the Government; on 1 November the Government adopts the draft budget of the Republic and delivers it, together with a memorandum on the budget, to the National Assembly; on 15 December the National Assembly brings the budget of the Republic. So, the deadlines in Item 1, so, November 1, are the deadline in the budget calendar, and they depend not on the goodwill of this or that, but are the legal deadlines. That is why my question is: If legal deadlines are not respected, how is it possible to protect the independence of the National Assembly? What I'm saying is that what the government is not doing is done by the DSS MPs, who in early November handed over the deposit insurance bill. We see that at the announced session, he will meet in front of us. At this time, on Friday, the DSS parliamentary group submitted a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to monitor the global economic crisis and take measures to mitigate the negative impact on the economy and on the economy of the Republic of Serbia. The most important thing in all of this is that we have seen the problem and proposed to this committee of governors, Prime Minister, Parliament President, Committee on Securities and Representatives of Parliament Groups dealing with the economy. So what the government is not doing is doing the MPs of the opposition, at this point the DSS gives us insight, this is already the third bill of law that we have passed for these 100 days by the government that has only given us laws from the domain of the last government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6394	Ambassador Velimir Ilic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). I ask the service to refer the presentation to the Ministry of Finance, with a request to explain why the government does not respect the deadlines laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6395	The Honorable President, honourable Members of the People, Mr Minister, I wanted to talk about how we MPs in this House are extremely offended, hurt, humiliated, underestimated. We always, especially the MPs of the opposition, attack why we speak, why we tell someone that he cheats on Serbian citizens. That's true. I just want to remind you of a few things. A hundred days ago, when the government was formed, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia addressed the citizens of Serbia and said -- the dinar will be stable, I guarantee you, translate your foreign savings into dinars, you will be extremely pleased and you will earn much more. It happened in the last hundred days that everyone who did it lost 14%, and 14%, it's a two-year interest. Thus, the governor cheated on Serbian citizens, for who knows which time, and those who did so were damaged for two years' interest on their dinar roles, and of course, for the next year they will certainly be completely without any means and opportunity to be compensated. Secondly, Serbia's president has promised 200,000 new jobs. That was good. It's said - a better life, Europe. It was all good. But here's only one company, the Technical-Remont Institute in Cačka, lost 400 workers, got fired. Why was the company that was best in that great Yugoslavia, which was leading the military industry, suddenly fired for 400 workers? Not to mention the military industry that's collapsed, not to mention the Five-year-old, Bor, Majdanpek, eastern Serbia, not to mention "Jumk", "Kostani" and so on. But it's the Minister of State's Dotons who's doing the railroad stories. That's why I discussed it here last time. He solved all the problems, and now he's here to solve a little bit about the railways. Therefore, there are no new jobs, gentlemen, following new cancellations. Here's Minister Milosavljevic. I'm glad to see him. I don't know if he knows why he bought two-and-a-half times a phone connection. So are you guys normal? I don't know a better expression. You who promised a better life to the citizens of Serbia, is that a better life, gentlemen? If that's a better life for you, convince us. You promised a thousand-euro stock, you lined up five million people, and from that to this day, nothing. Dulic talks about concessions, gas and concessions every day... People, I understand everything, but this parliament has made a decision to make concessions and now an orthopedic from Subotica comes and explains that we shouldn't be doing this, that we're irrelevant, our decisions, and the gas agreement and everything doesn't matter that much... (President: Please state what information you need, from which authority or organisation you need) Gentlemen, if there is no parliament, let us crown someone, if no one respects, his decisions, then the coronation comes... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Do you have the emperor, the king, if you have anything, come out and tell us, that we can solve it too. Please don't play with EULEX, don't talk; there must be a resolution in parliament, this parliament has to discuss it, don't work on the small door.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6396	We continue to discuss details. National MP Dragan Shormaz submitted amendments to Sections 9, 15 and 54 of the amendments. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the draft budget rebalancing, where I predicted that in article 5, division 9, and this is about the Ministry of Defence, for function 210, the economic classification of machines and equipment, we are practically preventing so much reduction in the resources of the Ministry of Defence budget as is provided for in this budget rebalance, to in some ways try to help. Unfortunately, the government has rejected this proposal. I don't know what he said about my amendment to the government's session, if that was at all in the government's session, if he's been asked about the defense. I tried to find some money in the budget and transfer it for the needs of the Ministry of Defense. The military, it's a figure of about a billion dinars. Given that the military had approximately a reduction of three billion compared to the budget, I removed some funding from section 54 of the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Administration, a function - buildings and construction facilities, which is the most important thing, and, of course, from the already mentioned popular minister and his ministry, it is about ski resorts, for example, about 200 million planned for ski resorts to be transferred for the needs of the military. In an interview, the defence minister said that the ministry did not give up these funds so easily and that it was struggling with the rest of the government to keep what it belonged to, but that a reduction of five billion dinars was envisaged and that it was reduced to more than three. The fight was obviously fierce, but it turns out, based on everything we've seen, that the Army in this whole rebalancing process has gone through the worst, i.e. The Department of Defense. It is amazing that in today's situation, when the state made a decision on military neutrality and when necessary, instead of what we had talked about earlier and what was predicted, even though the strategy was never adopted in the National Assembly, nor ended up in the Ministry of Defence, nor in the government, but there were some predictions that the Serbian Army would shrink by 21,000 members. Now, after making a decision on military neutrality, we have to go, according to the General Staff and the Ministry of Defense, which is some minimum, to 30,000 members. So we soldiers need to raise funds, not cut funds. In this situation -- demarcation of the line of our border, without our participation, between Macedonia and Kosovo, the constant threat, the transfer of terrorism from Kosovo territory to Serbia, the environment as we have, above all in the NATO Pact countries, we have entered the Partnership for Peace, the need to modernise equipment, the weapons are very outdated – we, as my colleagues have spoken before me, are making decisions to increase pensions under a law that does not exist anywhere in the world, according to the President of the Republic, I have heard it from him, but we will do it regardless of the law; we are making or predicting that we are making a ski resort on every hammer; we are not saving on public consumption, but we are increasing the state apparatus, increasing the number of employees in government, in public enterprises. And where are we fucking? We fuck on the Army and on our own safety. It's another proof of the inconclusive nature of this government and how much it doesn't care about this country. The situation is similar with the police, but I didn't want to try this time to help the Minister of Police with an amendment or try to help, because he's still, I'd say, the first man of the government, even though he's not the Prime Minister, so I was hoping he'd make a better effort to help the police. Unfortunately, as far as I can tell, it's not. I don't know if you know this information, but police officers haven't been receiving travel expenses for some time within their territorial unit, municipalities from which they travel to work or in the city of Belgrade. Imagine someone who works in the police, lives in Grocko, and works in New Belgrade – every day he has to travel, and no one bears the cost of his journey. There are municipalities, like my Smederov, where a policeman lives in the village of Saraorci, which is 30 kilometers away from the station he works in, travels every day, and no one finances the costs of that trip. And then we want a far more effective fight against crime and corruption. There must be a better way to design the budget, but it's obviously impossible with this government. We've cut down on... I claim we have to have between 28,000 and 30,000 soldiers, we have to have new equipment, we have to have a bigger engagement. We must, if we want to be taken more seriously as a state, have a more serious army. If we talk about negotiations concerning Kosovo and Metohija, which do not exist, they are interrupted, now violently through Eulex (which, apparently, this government also plans to accept) introduces what Marty Ahtisaari predicted, which is supervised Kosovo's independence as a state, who will take us seriously if we don't really have a serious army? No one here, of course, suggests that we say we're ready for war and that we should go to war, but if people know that we don't have a seriously organized army, it's normal that this is the way they treat us. The decision on military neutrality was an excellent decision by parliament, and we are not the only one, we talked about it at the time; often in our public trying to plant ourselves as we are the island surrounded by the countries of the NATO Pact. Okay, yes, Croatia is becoming a NATO pact member these days, but, you know, they weren't even allowed to go to the referendum. That referendum would never go away. In Montenegro, about 70% of citizens are against joining the NATO Pact. Apparently, pressure on governments is violently creating the whole NATO pact situation in these new strategic shifts globally. Why would Serbia commit to anyone? That's why a decision was made on military neutrality. We are not alone, military neutral is Austria, as a member of the European Union; military neutral is Sweden, with great tradition regarding the military and the modern army it has, and is also a member of the European Union. Norway is in the NATO Pact and is not a member of the European Union. We have different situations, so I think that story about Serbia's entry into the NATO pact should end. It is better for Serbia to be militaryly neutral, not to be classified into any military alliance and anyone else's side, but therefore it must have a modern army and better equipped. With this budget, the Ministry of Defence was cut off by three billion dinars, leaving the military from 2.4% to less than 2.25% of gross domestic product. Believe me, 2.4% is minimum and it was projected, and what happened? In the Department of Defense... Now it's gonna look a little weird when I say this, but that's a fact, Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac is from the Democratic Party, it turns out that a man is being punished for being the most thrift this year. You of DS are looking and suffering because you have a minister who was the most thrift, who watched that of those 2.4% of gross domestic products do as much as possible for the Army, to buy as much equipment as possible, not any equipment, not cheap equipment; the fact is that he bought expensive equipment, but we're not rich enough to buy bad equipment, cheap equipment, and there I would agree with him, that it's better to buy less but better quality equipment. The man was trying to save money. On the other hand, we're getting planes. We may have been killed by the best pilot, and you're making concessions to those who have three or five MPs, who would never enter parliament without you and sacrifice your ministry, smiling, not listening to what I'm saying, half of you here, sacrifice the ministry where your man is. You're cutting money, you're cutting it that way, and you're reducing the standard of a few members of the Serbian Army, and you're voting for this budget rebalance, and you're not voting for this amendment. That's amazing! So you'll leave the money to ski resorts and Mladjan Dinkic, and you won't transfer the money to perform a better, better and more regular remont of our planes! I really can't believe you're gonna do something like that, but you're the most responsible, you took responsibility, however you looked at it, you're responsible. Understand that one day, I speak from personal experience, you will pay the price of everything your coalition partners do. The most logical thing would be to accept this amendment, first of all, you from the Democratic Party, have enough MPs, and with us from the opposition in the day to vote for this, because Serbia needs more than a good, strong, organized army, a professional army, which will be able to protect this country at any moment. The military was once an institution of the highest trust and respect among our citizens. It is not safe today, but it can be again if we all get serious and we realize that the Serbian Army is far more important than the ski resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6398	The word is by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6399	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the material that I received as a National MP, and as regards amendments submitted to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law, my amendment is behind Mr. Shormaz's amendment, however at that session, I had the opportunity to look home because we were all tired on Friday, my amendment passed before Mr. Shormaz's amendment, and I will now take this opportunity, these 15 minutes that the New Serbia MP Group has under Mr. Shormaz's amendment, to speak of my amendment, if you permit. The amendment that I tabled on the proposal for this law concerns that in Article 5, 9 was split into the Department of Defence's economic classification 422 travel costs in order to allocate money to the normal functioning of folk cuisines. For what? Because the average Serbian city of 100,000 people has the need to meet the needs of thousands of citizens in this way. However, the situation in Vranj is slightly different because a large number of citizens have been out of work since 2000. I'll only list an example of Jumka where the job lost 10,000 workers, an example of Kostane where 2,500 people were out of work; we have Delishes in Vladic's Han where more than 2,500 people were out of work, and, behold, now we have these latest developments, ever since the government promised new employment, that the Auto-Transport company "The Unity", which was sold to Israel's "Kavim", began firing workers, so that only in the last three months 200 workers were out of work. Then, somehow always during the election campaign, the almighty Minister Dinkic appears and promises to create 3,000 new jobs, employ workers. Now I'm going to tell you a little bit about that weird investment of Zamber. Mr. Dinkic took hold of the hand of a British, Cypriot or Greek origin, Mr. Jani Savas, brought him to Serbia and gave him sixm euros of state money to hire him in a newly built Zamber factory. To make things clearer, Dinkic promised the employment of 3,000 workers and the production of 100,000 clothing items per month. He also said that investment with "Alen" and building "Zamber" with Mr. Savas is very valuable to Serbia and that it will attract many foreign investors. On 29 October 2007, when the citizens of Vranja realised it was a big fraud, Mr Dinkic threatened thunderously and said they had to honour the contract with "Zamber", as the factory will start operating on 1 March 2008. How far did it go? According to a contract signed by Mr Savas with the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency (SIEPA), the first tranche of a million-and-a-half euros will lie on its current account immediately after the purchase of land. He bought a neat plot, took the best location in the city for 500,000 euros and was paid a million and a half euros. Another tranche gets funds when he gets a building permit to build a factory. He also got that building permit, he was paid another million and a half euros, and that's where he cares. The cost of Mr. Savas so far is 500,000 euros for land he has given and the cost of extracting a building permit. So he spent about 600,000 – 700,000 euros, and he was paid three million euros. The factory's starting to build. The contractor came almost to the end and currently owes him 1,300,000 euros. No single dinar performer i.e. The company "Metheori" from Vranj until today has not been paid. Where is this difference from some 2,300,000 euros, the citizens of Vranja ask, and what will happen to the jobs promised by Mr Dinkic? Given that I've had the opportunity to watch the same circus and in connection with signing a contract with the Fiat, I don't think those people in Kragujevac will go any better than we did in Vranje, so I think that this government has started, that almost 90% of the population will be fed in folk cuisines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6400	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6401	Since the government, regardless of the aggregate state, does not accept this amendment, then I must warn the public that some strange things are happening on Nemanja Street. I get the impression that you've cracked or lost your mind like Tom and Wolfie, but you can't let the public know. Now let me explain why the situation is so serious. Well, you've given some information; as accurate as they are, I don't want to go into it, I'll start assuming that your data is correct. I must tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that it is no longer a secret. This information I'm going to tell you, and what the government wrote, long ago all the Serbian enemies know, I can even tell you that they wrote this data, because when you go to the General Staff parking lot of this army, you'll find more vehicles with foreign registrations than with our home registrations. It's a non-critical move by the Yogi Flyer to enter the NATO Pact at any cost and accept these NATO standards. Since it's a political commitment, then all that comes from NATO's pact is good and melanoma to the wound. It is also good to have an early grind and when it comes to the territory where our army operates, but better yet, from the point of view of Boris Tadic, where there is no army, above all I think of Kosovo and Metohija, because, as Vuk Draskovic said on June 10th 1999, peace has prevailed, now our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija will be taking care of the United Nations in the form of a NATO pact. Of course, when our army began to pull out of Kosovo and Metohija, all NATO locators and all NATO promoters were surprised by such a military force that almost suffered no losses. Of course, the Army was supposed to be destroyed. How? General to The Hague, General to retire. Who do we bring? Cousin Tonosha. How much does he know about military matters? Like a marica in silk. In his opinion, he has to go to Brussels. I've seen him twice, we've even been on the same plane, and it's so pathetic and pathetic because at a time when this country was a really respectable force in Europe, the defence minister went on a special plane abroad, if there was a need to talk. This is so downgraded that a regular JAT line can go. He runs one secretary and that ballerina and two security guards, gets to Brussels, we move on to The Hague, and he goes to the NATO Pact. They tell him what to do and everything in the paper goes -- European standards, NATO standards, it's good, it's nice, and our delegation that represents us there as a kind of observation... Imagine, the military organization has a parliamentary assembly -- strangely, the NATO Pact, which had to disappear when the Warsaw Pact also because it existed as a pandemic, but that's a different story. Now they're making you our army. How do you think they could create our army? In a way that either destroys it or reduces it to the state that can be controlled. These 18 years, we've actually had a broader, well-observed, controlled crisis in the premises of the former SFRY. Why controlled? Because it gets higher intensity or lower intensity if necessary, and not because of our interests, us living in this space, which we don't have a reserve state, but because of some of their geopolitical and global interests. Just to remind you, when this new DOS democracy came along very quickly from Vinci, even nuclear waste went away, because someone from the NATO Pact said -- it's possible to change power, so someone uses that waste for some things. Should I talk about our military research institutes? There's no need. Mladja Dinkic, in a coalition with the IMF and NATO pact, destroyed all this. You remember the affair regarding the sale of the Military Research Institute; you remember an adviser or, to be precise, the assistant secretary general of the UN for peace affairs, a certain Mr Davinic. An affair is being made, they go to an underground bunker, billions and billions are being invested to make it a lasting value, nothing, now it can be a tourist attraction. An affair, an affair, an affair -- 60, 70, 80 to bring the Army's popularity down to a minimum. Here we have this flower that introduced the civilian service of the military deadline, so instead of holding the guns, even if the wooden ones, our soldiers are washing the diapers. They go to the theater to act, it's advertised on TV. At the same time, the media shows every barracks, killings, cargo yards, executions. And how do you think you're building an army? The amendment Mr. Shormaz has made is logical, acceptable, but weak, Mr. Shormaz, if they need to implement what you propose with the amendment. Where's that gonna end? Inheriting another villa of Shuki's "plasmas". He won't go anywhere else. Let me let you know, because you say democracy is booming. Here, now the kids were enrolling in these military schools, military academys. One of the questions was -- which you voted for in the election, since children were 18 years old. Some had to join the DS. You'll say that's not true. Let's see if it's true. Prove it's not true. What's one billion in the budget more for the Army? Here, let me explain. In 1992, a law on aid in the material transformation of JNA was passed. This has been done for several years with the goal of improving material and other resources and solving some life issues of officers. They're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, like 90. The years were in a very good material position, they had a reputation, etc., but you know what the SFRY was like, came someone on the side, from some motherland came to tear up the country, first of all to tear up the JNA, because it was a great military force, third or fourth in Europe by all indicators, not only as regards the people, but also material and technical means, tools, etc. There's been a break-up. The end of that mess was "Sartid." That's where it's all melted. Now, if you count from what we have, which is operational, we have one plane and probably two helicopters, and that's the end. Now someone's asking a question -- why 70 and a few billion dinars, and we have one plane and two helicopters? A few days ago, military exercises were successful; two came from Romania, and one of us participated, to play the squadron. Don't be surprised if the Prince of Michael passes through the Sutanovac with the pitomats of the Military Academy, extends his arms and says, "Zzzzz, we're planes on a low flight." Unfortunately, that's the situation with our army. She's not where she's supposed to be. New uniforms, new painting, new pitomats, modern, prepared (knowledge of English) to be cannon meat in Afghanistan, Iraq or elsewhere. That's the path NATO has imagined for our army. The government has never rebelled when special armed forces of temporary transitional authorities were formed in Kosovo and Metohija. Never. The state has never asked up to 1,000 soldiers and police officers to return to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. When five apartments are divided by military faces or former military figures, it is an exceptional opportunity for the defence minister to take pictures. Let me remind you, there has been a change in one standard regarding the organisation of the Army, the jurisdiction of the General Staff, the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence, the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, and now there is no idea which of these two godmothers is the commander, whether the Minister of Defence or the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic also has his own military cabinet. Secretary of Defense, what's he got? What does he do? The affairs of the SDPR and, most likely, what some military security and intelligence are doing. What function? To stop someone who's an enemy of our country and our army or, as they say, to warn security risks? Tell that to your Dragisic and Milan Markovic, as Milan Markovic is a security expert. Don't talk to us, don't talk to the citizens of Serbia. The border is free, the police took it or didn't take it into jurisdiction, the large funds are being separated, for what? What's our army's position? In a difficult position. And these few children who are defined as serving an army with weapons, what is their accommodation, heating, food? How do people look at them? The funds need to be increased, but what is the purpose of this increase? The purpose of this increase is to secure the material position of these people in the military and probably another purpose is to do something with material and technical means. As much as we do that, given that you're under NATO's watch, American, English and English advisors who won't let your head up, there's nothing there. Of course, you have now and strengthened, you have found a system to keep this story and what is true not available to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and then you are doing everything and everything. Now, for example, you've made a new affair with the hamsters and you've found some new Ustasha whore. Of course, I don't want to talk about it, because the book "Serbian Baron Minhauzen - Alexander Vukic" is about to come out. You're all working on him now to disable the defense of Vojislav Seselj. You don't have any problems, and you'll be represented, you'll have room in the book. Don't worry, we won't get around you at all. We'll describe everything about how someone lies, scares the citizens and impossible things, and you force it into your impact media, for what? To slightly increase that pebble in the shoes of the Serbian Radical Party. Well, you won't be able to do that, do you understand? How many of them broke their teeth because of it; well, a strong Milosevic capitulated with the SRS, but not these yellow Democrats? Support them as much as possible, but you stand before and behind them, and today we will inform citizens of the Republic of Serbia about each point and about each amendment. It's not based on political ratings or anything. No, you've agreed in your heart how to help end the trial in The Hague by killing Vojislav Seselj. That's what you do. You know there isn't a man in the Khrtkovci who was mentioned by this Rocky, called Niko Wolfich. There is no man with that name, Niko Gajic. It doesn't exist. So then he made a deal with Dacic that he allegedly banned it, so it wouldn't be seen that there was nothing. You're disabling the public because of the SRS? No, it's because of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. You asked him to be there, you asked him not to come back here. Now, that's your policy. And if he's an innocent man, you know best.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6402	The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic. The time available to the DSS parliamentary group is two minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking advantage of the opportunity, the presence of Minister Milosavljevic, otherwise a man who is both a businessman and who knows the situation in the economy. At the same time, I want to support Mr. Dragan Shormaz's amendment, because I think it is much more rational and in the interest of the state that these funds he has proposed, of a billion dinars, are transferred from the ski resort to the Ministry of Defence. I will give an example, Mr. Velimir Ilic here today said that 400 workers from the Military and Technical Remont Institute were fired in Chačka. As a businessman, you know that our dedicated industry for one time was practically the largest exporter in the state of Serbia. I think it's better that these funds be allocated to the Ministry of Defence, to help institutions and businesses dealing with this activity, than to experiment with what the effects and results will be, for the simple reason why it's a question, and for climate change and everything, whether that money used for the ski resorts can even come back. I think our strategy should be to support and cultivate what we've proven, to create an ambience to do it rationally, not to deal with some of the things that the question of what the results will be. That's why I'm asking the government, and I support this request from Mr. Shormaz, to carry out this redistribution in budget rebalancing and to transfer the funds to the Department of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6404	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 11 amendments were submitted by MP Nenad Milic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(4). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic, and then the National MP Elena Christmas-Talian.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6405	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Liberal Democratic Party has tabled one amendment to Article 5 of the draft budget rebalancing law. Otherwise, this bill explains why an increase in resources for BIA is foreseen as follows: "The redistribution of the planned funds provides the missing funds for the financing of permanent costs (increase of energy prices, utility services, telecommunications services, lease of space, as well as the costs of housing of elected and appointed persons). "We believe that this argument cannot justify an increase in the cost of the Security and Information Agency, which is already being provided for by the 2008 budget. Otherwise, the budget envisioned an amount of 3.380,140,000 dinars for BIA financing. This rebalancing increases the funds allocated to an unreformed agency by several hundred million, for an agency that has no valid control by competent authorities, including the Assembly. We believe that too much funding is already foreseen by the budget for this agency, so it was completely unnecessary for these funds to be increased by this bill as well. The reasoning highlighted in the draft law is indeed illogical, as the question is whether they have really collected municipal costs, energy prices and telecommunications services to this end. Otherwise, the bill was submitted to the Assembly on 8 October 2008, when neither energy nor telecommunications was collected yet. So, we believe, given that some other authorities and budget users have little or almost nothing increased as far as the rebalancing is concerned, and this BIA, unreformed with a difficult past, a difficult mortgage of the past, has been given over 200 million dinars to spend by the end of the year... I remind you, we still have two months until the end of 2008. Otherwise, while we are here discussing budget rebalancing, how to increase public spending, a hundred budgetary inspectors from all over Serbia gathered in Belgrade, were also invited from the province to do a large tax check by those who are obliged to pay taxes, full budgets and a real space for the state to increase public spending. Those hundred inspectors have been doing their job for 30 days. They're staying at the Hotel Cassina. The costs per inspector per day are 8,000 dinars, totalling around 24 million dinars of additional costs, to charge the tax to charge the harak. We agree that tax should be paid, I come from Vojvodina where a man is thought to be a neat, honest and regular citizen if he regularly pays the tax, however, it is incomprehensible why so much increase in public spending. It is incomprehensible why, two months before the end of this year, these costs are increasing through rebalancing, and we know what the financial crisis is in the world, how much this crisis is already taking place in Serbia; we know how hard it is to charge taxes, there are fewer and fewer people who engage in private business, and the tax is mainly charged by private-owned enterprises. Then the question really arises whether we can plan for 2009 one real budget, and not again come up with a proposal to rebalance at the end of 2009, means that we are not increasing the existing amount of budget that has been increased with this rebalancing. That's how it goes from year to year. If private individuals, if legal persons are obliged to take account of whether or not they have paid taxes, is the basic assumption of good education, of good behaviour, of correct and responsible attitude towards citizens, that this country is also accounting for, above all, one of the regular final accounts that we will discuss in this assembly, of how she planned the funds, how she spent these funds and whether she believes that these funds are sufficient or leaves room for a future rebalancing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6406	The word has a national emissary of Elena Christmas-Talian. Anybody else answer for a word? Yes, MP Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment proposes a reduction in the total expenditure of budget users -- BIA. It really is necessary to reduce total expenditures, because more money only allows for greater abuses. Like, for example, the scandalous fact that BIA and the MUP co-operate directly and that there is wire between them and certain political structures and individual politicians. I will prove this claim on the case of the Croatians directed by Aleksandar Vukic, Serbian Baron Minhauzen, in co-operation with Minister Dacic, as well as the fact that Alexander Vukic is allowed to have the most modern techniques for listening to political opponents, which has been given to him by the BIA, and that this anti-constitutional and illegal action is tolerated. It is a shameful and scandalous way that Vukic and Nikolic are trying to earn political points. They are in a great panic because they fail to win voters as they planned and now in all possible ways, including morbid inventions that Vojislav Seselj has ordered that Vukic and Nikolic be liquidated, trying to save themselves from political defeat. They are persistently leading the Hijka and expanding their hatred for political insinuators, and that is why the Serbian Radical Foreigners are incinerated in Vladimirci and demoted in Negotin and Vrenjka Banja. Since leaving the party, Nikolic and Vucic, as allies of The Hague tribunal, have been campaigning directly against Vojislav Seselj. Their goal is to make it impossible for Seselj's defence in any way, to challenge the imposition of defenders, so that Vojislav Seselj would strike hunger, which would have a tragic end, and then their goal would be fulfilled. Vukic, as the most talented for morbid inventions, and his favorite creations are the roles of the victims, makes the introduction to the Croatian affair by spectacularly announcing that Tomislav Nikolic is certain Niko Gajic of Krtkovci threatens to murder. The only problem with this story is that a man named Niko Gajic in Krtkovci does not exist at all. The story is directed further in the following way: when the meeting was registered in Hrtkovci in a letter to the police, so-called. The advanced party says it expects problems. So, the situation is this: the Serbian Radical Party has not even set up a rally, but they are expecting problems. In a second letter to the police, the day before the rally in Hrtkovci, again, but now much more dramatic, explain how they expect even bigger problems. Dacic comes out to meet them and saves them from the political defeat they would experience at the rally, and there is an obvious string. Then, we have another controversial statement by Minister Dacic, asking whether he is familiar with the information about the attack on the leaders of the elderly who ordered Vojislav Seselj, says - I cannot talk about it because I do not have such information, I cannot talk about whether anyone will be arrested for preparing riots in Hrtkovci, because it is all in the jurisdiction of the State Security Service - BIA. How is it possible that this is in the jurisdiction of the BIA, when it is in the jurisdiction of the BIA cases involving foreign services and if it is a threat to the security of the state? So this Dacic statement just shows that both the MUP and the BIA are obviously instrumentalized. We are approaching the direction of the Vucician plot, which, with its visceral eyes, frightened and tantalising voice, has announced that it has received a memo from the MUP and the BIA that the pre-election assemblies of the progressors, reported for the weekend in Hrtkovci and other places at Ruma, cannot be maintained because there is a danger of endangering people and property. That's, by the way, a typical explanation. The Serbian Radical Party received a memo from the MUP on our party's meeting in Ruma, which was scheduled for Sunday. However, this type of BIA memo is not common. Vukic also said that he first spoke with a BIA representative, so the question arises in what capacity Vucic is co-operating with the BIA. So, is he an BIA associate? Does this co-operation mean that BIA has begun to deal with both parties and has become political police? Furthermore, Vukic uses this typical explanation and the scenario continues to take place in the following way: no longer tanned and tormented, but with a hysterical voice he starts asking the MUP and BIA to say who he wanted and whose safety he wanted to endanger, who wanted bloodshed and who wanted to build a human slaughterhouse. There is another problem, the MUP sent a letter to the Progressive Party prohibiting the meeting in Hrtkovci; however, the MUP also banned the SRS meeting in Krtkovci, which was not scheduled. So the Serbian Radical Party didn't even have a rally, but only ran a door-to-door campaign. In parallel with these spectacular and dramatic statements by Alexander Vukic, one television monitors events in Hrtkovec and reports that there is an increased number of police vehicles, but that members and sympathisers of the SRS are walking peacefully and that, all in all, it is one common Saturday afternoon. The campaign continues with crazy accusations and the next days, therefore, both yesterday and today. Since Vukic stressed that he had information about what could have happened in the Krtkovci, yesterday, under the designation of a reliable source, he made scandalous accusations in the two-day list that he was the target of the assassin under Vojislav Seselj's directive. The statements of madness that, according to Seselj's warrant, the Duke of Vasilija from Zemun and Mirko Blažević from Bijeljina prepared a fierce attack on the meeting of the Progressive Party in Hrtkovci to which Aleksandar Vukic was to speak. At that time, Mirko Blagojevic was in a tennis tournament in the Castles near Bijeljina, and Vasilija Vidovic, otherwise, is a disabled man walking through a stick, a heart patient who must not have any heart interventions to do because there is a risk of not surviving. So these are the alleged, potential assassins of Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. I don't know if you can imagine this crazy scenario of being in the middle of The Hague Kazamat Vojislav Seselj, through strictly controlled and tapped phone conversations, agreeing, planning, organising and ordering liquidations across Serbia. It is a very important question how it is possible not to declare these scandalous accusations by the competent authorities, BIA and the MUP, but rather to allow them to be manipulated in this way and to be instrumentalised. This shows the obvious streak that exists on the route of Aleksandar Vukic - MUP - BIA. Both the BIA and the MUP participate in this attack on Vojislav Seselj as long as you remain silent and as long as they do not provide precise answers to these serious accusations. Otherwise, it is very possible that Vukic's life is in danger, but for quite another reason. Aleksandar Vucic is in close relations with Predrag Rankovic - Peconi, a certain Keko, a certain Limun and other people today called controversial businessmen. It is not excluded that Vucic's life is really at stake, but because of uncleared accounts with these people, because of promises he made to them in pre-election campaigns, which they just funded. That's why it's necessary for BIA and the M.O.P. to come forward as soon as possible on this case. Vukic remains in good relations with Stanko Sudotic Canet, who has repeatedly met with him, from whom he received a million euros. Vukic was in Moscow from August 1st to 4th. During that period, Subotic was not in custody, as Vucic claims. Saturday, he was in custody from 28 April to 26 June. During the meeting in Moscow, Vukic pledged to use his ties to Boris Tadic's regime and to try to help him with a cigarette smuggling indictment during the 1990s where Subotic is charged with being the organiser of a criminal group that damaged the state for 20m euros. So, as I said, it's not excluded that Vucic's life is really threatened by his friends in the business world and that he tried to use it by transferring it to the field of political insatiables, in collaboration with the MUP and BIA. Also, it is an amazing and scandalous fact that Vukic owns his own listening devices. In fact, Vukic openly boasted in the party that he had obtained the most modern listening devices to be used for listening to political opponents. We didn't believe it, but recently we got confirmation of these claims. Vukic's secret phone listening equipment recorded a conversation between former SRJ President Zoran Lilić and incumbent Education Minister Zarko Obradovic, as well as talks conducted by Krkobic and Djilas at the time of the agreement on forming a city government. Vukic also told us in the party about a certain Miki, a security adviser to Boris Tadic, who he himself spoke of personally managing secret services in Serbia and that he, Vukic, regularly receives from him various compromising materials for individual politicians in Serbia. Vukic also praised us for receiving intelligence from cabinet chief Boris Tadic, a certain Rakic. Vukic was also given information from Tadic's cabinet about Tomislav Nikolic and was the first to inform Vojislav Seselj and some people in the party zealously. For example, he brought transcripts of recorded talks between Nikolic and Tadic's secret meetings. The BIA and the MUP made it possible for Vukic to deal with listening. The wolf makes another crazy claim, that it may bother some that he announced that he would go to Knin and that maybe that's why some would try to liquidate him. It only raises the question why he has never visited Serbs before, and he has stayed in Croatia so many times. He does not go because he cares about the position and interests of Serbs in Croatia, for their return to homes. Vukic is going to confirm to the Croats what he recently promised in an interview with Zagreb's Globus, quote: "We will take Serbia". I remind you, Stjepan Mesic has said that Tomislav Nikolic would be acceptable if Serbs were given up west of Drina and Danube and the concept of Serbia, in translation -- to forget Serbs and their hearths. That's exactly what Vukic is going to say - we forgive you ethnically cleaning Serbs, we'll forget it all, we're not interested in the Republika Srpska Krajina anymore, because from now on we're running a real policy. In this interview, he paid more attention to his beautiful memories concerning visits to Zagreb, hanging out with former "Dinam" trainers, and the Serbs in Croatia and their problems barely remembered. Vukic was also in Croatia in September and it is amazing how in Hrtkovci Vukic he does not feel safe, but he feels quite safe in Croatia. So, the scandalous fact is that BIA and the MUP are working directly with individual politicians, taking part in directing the affairs and allowing them to listen to opponents, of course political ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6408	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. The time available to the LDP parliamentary group is eight minutes. After him, MP Momir Markovic is available for two minutes, followed by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6409	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I have reported on the amendment submitted by Mr. Nenad Milic and who tried to bring the funds identified for the BIA to a level that we thought was adequate. What's interesting about refusing this amendment? So when we look at the budget rebalance and look at the part that's talking about the reasoning of the funds by individual users, we see what these funds that are increased by this rebalancing are defined for BIA. It is said: "The redistribution of planned funds provides the missing funds to finance permanent costs (increase of energy prices, utility services, telecommunications services, lease of space, as well as on the basis of court rulings, costs of accommodation of elected and appointed persons)". However, in a statement by the Government rejecting this amendment, it is said: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why a reduction in the total expenditure of the BIA budget user is proposed without the proposed reduction of expenditure by economic classifications, so that the proposed amendment is contrary to Article 10." What's so controversial about that? The dispute is that the Government refuses us amendments that do not comply with the budget system. It's the same government budget system that violates the day-to-day budget system, meaning the Budget System Act. That's what we heard this morning, we talked about on Fridays and the previous days, what the budget calendar looks like. However, the government does not adhere to it. Today we heard from Governor Jelasic that it is better to get a better budget, so let him be late and not respect the Budgetary System Act, but get a draft budget bill in time without being good. Unfortunately, even this next budget won't be what it has to be, which is to see much greater austerity. Why did we propose this amendment not to increase BIA funds for this year as planned by the rebalancing process, i.e. by 367,900,000? We believe that the budget for BIA is extremely high, of course, not slowing down the importance that BIA should have in this country and the work that needs to be done. What's our main criticism when it comes to BIA is that the BIA has not undergone any reform, or we think that these reforms that have, like, taken place in the BIA itself are absolutely insufficient, we think that the change of the leader is not enough and is not the only thing that needs to be done. We have long been representing this thesis that simply, BIA must be cleared of all those personnel who have destroyed the reputation of the service during the previous years, and many in this country have black-headed, powerful laws trampled. We feel that it will not be good if, as an agency that has in some cases been put above the state, it does not reform itself, or we do not think that these funds that are intended to increase; as long as the service is not reformed, it is necessary to take a little account of the allocation in the budget for them. So, once again, I'm undermining, it's just amazing to me that in this part that I've cited, which is in the budget rebalance when it comes to BIA... We know when this budget rebalance was written, and we know when these communal and other services were collected. So the increase in energy prices, telecommunications services, that's the reason for the increase in BIA funds. We think it's a little hasty with that, or obviously they knew something more than we did, two or three months ago, that it would all add up. But again, I underline -- as long as the BIA is not reformed in the way citizens and this state deserve it, we believe that these funds that are allocated to them by rebalancing, and that are increasing year by year, are not adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6410	The word is by MP Momir Markovic, followed by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Milic's amendment should be accepted. As to the lack of the amendment, as you say, there is no expenditure proposed here, according to which economic classifications – well, according to what BIA separates for paying spies, so-called. Associates, Wolfs and others. Otherwise, I disagree with Miss Italian's information, because according to confirmed information, MI 5, MI 6, CIA, BIA, VBA and Ivica Dacic, there was a bloodbath there; they have information that two Chetnic submarines were in the Sava, that three torpedoes were with the Krtkovci and that the airport in the Great Radins was buzzing since the Chetnic Air Force. If the rally wasn't so forbidden, he'd be invisible, unique, because on it would only be Alexander Wolf. The rally was invisible, so-called. The stealth rally, no one there that advanced party, except for two members, is gone, and that's one ex-SPO and one undetermined. Alexander Vukic was afraid, but not of Serbian radicals, because they were doing their job, pre-election campaign, he was afraid of coming to an empty room, and this is the service Ivica Dacic did to him. How he's gonna get back to Hansel Dacic, that's what we're gonna see. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's no more euphoria when Alexander Vukic appears when he's welcomed by Serbian radicals. They thought he was in the soul of a radical. From the moment they realized which traitor he was no longer welcomed. On the contrary, they mention him, mention his family when, for example, he appears at the market in Ruma, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6412	The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6413	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Minister, I would like to refer to this amendment. What exactly is the reason for the rebalancing? It's an increase in public spending and budget deficits. We're talking, we've talked more than once in the Assembly about this supplement of the Budget Law. This rebalance actually shows this government's policy. This government calls itself socially responsible, and I have to say I haven't seen an economically irresponsible government in a long time. Today, when virtually all countries in Europe reduce public spending, they already have it ready, they have already implemented it, a plan for overcoming this economic crisis, when in Germany, France, Belgium, all the results of this crisis and the measures already taken to see their impact, our government is increasing the budget. It's just that they're the main reasons. Why? Because it's part of the coalition agreements that were made in making this government and, more importantly, more sensitive, it's part of election campaigns. I'd only hold off on some of the parts I've already talked about, which is that we don't see any revenue, explicit, which will help keep this rebalancing going. The only explicit income is this amount of 298,000,000 dinars, and that payment was registered in March 2008 by the Broadcasting Agency. We don't have any other explicit income. We're talking about an increase, that most of the VAT funds will come -- I don't see how; from customs -- I don't see how. I've been asking these questions, we haven't got any answers. Of course, I have to say, we don't have to blame ourselves here for throwing on the finance minister Mrs Dragutinović who's professionally doing her job. This is part of coalition promises, not rebalancing. But Madam Minister will have great responsibility in making the budget. There she should already ask her professional integrity, her dignity, her professionalism, which she simply has in negotiations with several ministers who have seen the government as their private property. Today our government is acting as an entrepreneur. So we invest in companies dealing with tourism, investing, the only one in the world, in some project with the Fiat; no one has ever seen a business plan, no one has seen any projections of the return of these investments. I must repeat once again, "Fiat" is more than welcome in the Republic of Serbia, and every foreign investor is more than welcome, but why should the state deal with entrepreneurship? Some ministers, I mean not specifically Mr. Trade Minister, but other ministers who want to deal with private business, here, a wide field, let them choose, invest their own money, have their own business partners and make any private business. The state of Serbia should enable them to do so, but they cannot be used by state money to invest in a car industry that today has the largest possible fall in the last 50 years. All factories are closed, practically, in all European countries the number of workers is reduced, sales volume is reduced. The 2009 projections, I must say, are very dreary, from a six-percent drop in sales and up to 40 per cent among some producers; even Japanese producers, who have never had a drop in production in the last ten years, will have a decline in sales in the following year from 5% to 9%. Simply, today investing in entrepreneurship is really very irresponsible. I have a principle, when I invest my money, I have to be careful, and when I invest the money I took from the bank, I have to be sure of the return of those investments. The state doesn't have to be sure about the return of that investment, the state has to be secured three times because it's not her money, and money allows future generations to have a better life, or worse, depending on how it works. Let's just take one more look at these specific figures, what's the basis for an increase in expenditure. Pensions -- additional funds amounting to 12,658,000,000 dinars or around 150,000 euros were planned. It is an increase of about 10% for our pensioners, who are indeed the most endangered group in Serbia, but not all pensioners, you have pensioners who have 90,000 dinar pensions. These pensioners with 90,000 dinars will receive an increase of 9,000 dinars, which is more than someone's entire pension. Where's the logic here? Secondly, all costs increase, everything accumulates, collects municipal services, and pensioners need to know that this 10% increase won't get anything, these are practically just financed by pensioners with the highest possible pensions. This linear pension increase is one of the biggest mistakes. What's this? Let's open our eyes. Here, I'm sure half the government ministers think the same thing I do. This is just a pre-election promise from a coalition group that helped form this government. Find me one responsible economist who will support this increase to 70% of the average salary. There is no one in Serbia, there is no one in Europe. They're laughing at us today, the whole of Europe is laughing at us. No one has a pension of 70% of the average salary. It will never happen in Serbia either. I just want to tell the pensioners-- they tricked you by who knows which time. Find me a minister who'll say a 70% pension increase is justified. You won't find it, it doesn't exist. This is just the fulfillment of the pre-election promise. The newly formed ministries -- okay, we have them in the new government, God gave, a lot, we have to secure funding. Agriculture subsidies - 90m euros, that's very little. Agriculture takes a lot more than that. Our best export product is agriculture. That's where we have to invest a lot more. Science, not to speak, is at the lowest possible level of science separation. We didn't ask for an increase in the separation for science, but that's why we're giving the Fiat to the government to deal with entrepreneurship, which is also a pre-election promise. Here, I call on all economists, let's cross the spear with arguments, not pulsism or politics. What real economist today believes that someone will invest 700m euros? There is no figure of 700m euros. The prime minister spoke, said ministers, 700m euros. There is no such number, to inform you, that figure is 200m euros, but in equipment; it means no investment in cash, but in equipment, which is also probably very good. But today, the Fiat needs to be able to open a greenfield investment or to privatize the flag. If we had said much earlier that our investment as a Serbian state would be 250m euros, and that would be in the budget... I really appeal to the finance minister, to all economists in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to stop already once this false pulsism and to stop these false pre-election promises. What country is going to invest 350 million in one city today? Why do we only invest in Kragujevac and the flag? We are for that, but real numbers. What about "The First Five-year-old," what about E.I. "Nish", what about "The Viscos," what about "The Utva" in Pancheva, what about IMT, what about "The Dragon," what about "The Cruise," what about "The 14th of October"? In these companies I've listed you with 150,000 employees. Will someone in this government give this kind of subsidy to them? No, because these factories aren't part of the pre-election promise, it's just the flag factory that we're supposed to help and advocate, it's just part of the pre-election promise, but this is unrealistic. What even regional development? He doesn't exist in Serbia. We also have a minister for equal regional development. Is anyone involved in this? No one's in the business. I have to mention good examples of investments in the last seven or eight years. We have Telenor who invested an extraordinary billion-and-a-half, we have Mobile - 570 million, we have Philip Morris - 518, "Study" - 475 million, "Interbru", "Apatian brewery" - 430, "Lukoil" - 210, "Holicim" - 185m euros. Has anyone given them these subsidies? What are they supposed to get if I get some theoretical investment where the state invests... Instead of getting out of the company, getting the companies privatized, we're going completely counter-processing, we're going back to some '56, '57. A year. I guarantee you no serious economist can support this. Third, I mean, we have these other employee expenses. I'm asking a question, we're talking about a pay cut in the state administration, and employee spending is increasing by about a billion dinars. I didn't get the answer. Of course, we have the spending of a current budget reserve of about three billion dinars (37m euros); it would be interesting to see what is behind it. The cost of the survival of this government, in which there are good individuals but as a team are the largest band I have seen in my life, must pay and pay at the end of two groups: one is citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the other is business. The economy will be destroyed even more. You heard, VAT revenue will increase. Does anyone really think about increasing VAT at this point? Is it better, our pensioners, I say again, who are the most threatened, instead of financing pensioners with large pensions, even they won't feel anything of that increase... Wasn't it better to invest that money in the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia to subsidise very expensive loans for enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, which will be even more expensive in a month? We'll have the most expensive loans for economics in Europe. How are we going to compete with other countries? How can we compete when they have three times as cheap loans as we have them? How many credits are we going to have in the first place? In these times of crisis, all states show their role, now is the right time for the state to show its role, to build a fund that will help. Here, Angela Merkel is helping Folkswagen. In 2002. The government of the Republic of Italy, Berlusconi's government, has been extremely helpful to the Fiat when it was in the biggest crisis. What is our country doing to help? Real companies, we make state-owned tourism companies, although all tourism companies are in the world, I will repeat, either owned by private companies or owned by municipalities. There is no ski resort owned by a republic, or state. At this point, we expect the government to see what would be the most realistic and fairest -- that this rebalance should be withdrawn, that this assembly should not adopt it, and since I assume it will adopt it, we will do exactly the opposite of what all other European countries are doing. We'll see what happens on the budget. I'm not a great optimist, I'm even predicting a major economic crisis, and this budget rebalance is an indicator of where this government is leading us right now. The government still has time to correct these pre-election promises, break up with this populist policy and really turn to this biggest possible problem that exists in Europe today, this major economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6414	Is anyone else answering this amendment? The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6415	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, I have come out to take the opportunity to ask two questions to the Minister or ministers who will answer that question. The budget is the most important act a country brings over the year, of course, not counting the Constitution. There are no dilemmas. A serious act is adopted under serious legal procedure. I also want to ask the question - when is the 2009 budget going to be in the assembly procedure? I ask this question for the simple reason that this assembly has become used to the previous years that the Budgetary System Law is not respected; this Assembly has not come to the Assembly, which is just as important as the budget; no report on the budgetary inspection, which was also required under the law, has come to the Assembly, etc. I expect this government to stop this violation of the Budgetary System Act and I expect it to quickly respond when the budget enters the procedure. This is not the most important issue for Serbia today, but it would be important for citizens to have comprehensive information. I ask that information be provided when the 2008 budget, so last year, somewhere at this time, was delivered to the assembly procedure, it was the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica; if I am not mistaken, November 15th, and 16 came to the MPs. In order for me not to answer that question, I ask the Government to answer that question. Second question. I'm a socialist and I'm very interested in the issue of raising pensions. I'm seriously considering a number of warnings because of the way they increase. The fact is that this category of people is very endangered, the most endangered. The fact is that the state must do everything to ensure that they too have a status worthy of Serbian citizens, that it is not only those who will bear the burden of this crisis. I'm seriously thinking about how to raise pensions. In what way? To be a steppe: who has less to gain, who has more to gain less, but while respecting the Constitution, given that pension is not social giving, pension is a continuation of a man's working life. But in order to be safer in determining my position, please let me get the information, when it comes to all pension increases in the last 4-5 years, let's say, in January there was an extraordinary 11%, a reconciliation for last year, whether it was linear or whether it was also a good experience when these pensions were increased, so now that experience should continue. Not to be too long, if that's a question that's going to come more and more into our interest, I'm asking that we be told exactly what the amounts of all pension increases have been in recent years and whether it was linear or not. We'll discuss all of this in more detail when the budget is on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6416	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6417	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Members of Rules of Procedures 225 and 226. I refer the issue to the Ministry of Interior and the Security and Information Agency, and in relation to Article 46, since I am a member of the Committee on Defence and Security and that our committee, whose chairman and president of our parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, is twice a year considering the report on the work of the Ministry of Defence and Security. In the course of this year, and now it's November, we haven't had a half-yearly review of the state report in the MUP and BIA. The ruling coalition can justify this by the fact that parliamentary elections have taken place in the meantime, that the former chairman of the Committee, now the interior minister, has been elected to the post, however, it is a big problem for us, especially because (if you listened carefully, and the entire Serbian public is) issues raised by SRS Secretary General Elena Christmas-Talijan. It is that in Serbia, strange things happen, at least, and that dangerous people, dangerous criminals and some who are self-called politicians do whatever they want in Serbia, and that we MPs, and especially members of the Defence and Security Committee, have no insight into it. You remember, fellow MPs, and you who are not members of the Committee, that a year and more ago I asked a question, to insist on our then Secretary General Alexander Vukic, because from him I received this information to inform Ranko Tadic's brother, Boris Tadic's brother, has devices for listening to political objections, and even those who are... Mrs. Kolundzija, these are the words of Alexander Vukic, you know, secretary general, who, by nature, is a man informed. I asked that question and Mr. Bulatovic, then director of the BIA, told me he would check it out. However, in the meantime, it turns out that such equipment, only more sophisticated, has Aleksandar Vukic, to deal with this work, especially because of the already widely known facts, and I have also received reliable information that he has been an associate of the British intelligence service MI6 for two years and that as such, not only through Rakic, this Miki and these criminals, as they are already called, Limun and others, has all these connections. There's a serious question - what are the MUP and BIA doing? Do they follow these foreign agents, such as Vucic, or in the field with them do all that, to break up first of all what's called personality integrity, because it's quite clear that this certain gentleman, who... Otherwise, let me tell you, that's what the public needs to know, he pretends to be strong, strong and powerful, and he's actually a big mouse. A few years ago at the Star stadium at the derby game, he got into a fight, not alone, but together with four others, beat up an athlete just because he cheered for another club. Look what a hero it is. And then a few days later, he went to a handball game, and when the fans started beating him, so the police came, he took out the ID and said, "I'm an MP, don't touch me." Since we, as he says, have waited to be rid of him, indeed, such an agent, fraud and hypocrite, Baron Minhauzen, please state authorities (Mrs. Comic, excuse me and thank you for this time), and above all the MUP and BIA, to arrive with the report as soon as possible... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... and ask the question for which all intelligence services (for MI 6 have been checked) for Vukic and who follows him in all of his illegal and anti-constitutional activities which he deals with these days in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6418	The word has an MP named Free Maras. Time is available to the parliamentary group for three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6419	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Komic, I gave you a signal that I answered the line to Mr. Petronivic, because I think he misread me, but I can use this time not to make, as you say, obstruction. Mr. Petronijevic, unfortunately, is a member of 101, but I believe he did not speak for himself. The government of Vojislav Kostunica has trampled the Budget System Act does not mean that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic should, and that is an excuse. The government of Vojislav Kostunica raised pensions linearly does not mean that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic should also work in such a way as to justify the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. But what's interesting is that Mr. Petronijevic didn't say a single word about this government now raising the price of gas 60% in the first day of the heating season. He didn't find any of that partnership with the previous government. I think it's a little incorrect on his part that he tried to keep his letter and went out, but calling for the previous government, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the rules of failure, that it did not react best or that it violated the Budgetary System Act is not an excuse for the current ruling majority, or for the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6420	The word has been made by the MP Fired Mihajlovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6421	Your Honor, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226. My friend Natasha is the principle of a topic that has been very interesting these last few days, but I would still start with questions addressed to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Police. I'd really like the police department to explain to us why so many police officers have been seen in the Krtkovci these days, based on what? Were there sufficient information from one schizophrenic person, and I am immediately starting with this other question, which I refer to the Ministry of Health - is there any possibility that Serbia could be kicked out of political life by someone who has been ill, dangerous? I guess I'm not an expert, but I think it's a case of Alexander Wolfiec. In fact, this man these days presents himself to us in the worst possible light. Lucky that this party is extraparliamentary, so his calls to the lynch, the reckoning, and the civil war, won't have much influence. However, this man has a significant impact on the yellow press, and I mean the press, which is under the auspices of the "yellow company", his friend Gilas. Two disgusting headlines were published there, some dirtier had not experienced any journalism or even Serbian. The first one was released yesterday - "The Shechell seeks blood," and the second one today - "The Shekel has condemned me to death." Is it possible for normal newspapers to publish something like this, write at all? The explanation followed by this first title: "Seselj is looking for blood" sounds like this: they were ready for some dukes who mobilized their people, brought lots of automatic weapons, etc. One of the people who mention it, which is the words of Alexander Vukic, he knows it well, he's very sick, he's had two heart attacks, he's been operated three times, and he's expecting a fourth operation these days; he's putting this man in charge of a Chetnic unit that was supposed to kill the members of this extraparliamentary party. That's terrible. I don't think it should be further explained, but his statement is enough to make a little better sense of what degree of disease it is. Namely, he says at one point -- we were ready to get beaten up, they were ready to shoot at us, and after that he said -- there was enough of our view to get away. That tells you it's an extremely sick person, who at first presents himself as a victim, and right after that as some superhuman, some man who can beat us all up. This is Alexander Vukic, whom he freed us (so there is something good in every evil) Mr Tomislav Nikolic, but it seems to me that he didn't get very happy either. We just need to see what happens there, and it seems to me that his schizophrenics are most expressing within the ranks of this extraparliamentary party. So, I repeat, I am referring two questions: first to the Ministry of the Interior -- where it got information that something was going on there and what was being prepared for that information, why so many cops, why the spending of so many diaries, so much fuel to get to the Krtkovci... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. Secondly, I refer to the Ministry of Health - is it possible to remove a schizophrenic, for which Baron Minhauzen is a common incident, is it possible to remove such a man for health reasons, due to the improvement...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6422	People's MP, use more time than the Rules of Procedure is allowed. Several times, at least four times you have violated Article 104 as far as the way the MPs address each other is concerned. You express your diagnosis of the speaker of the National Assembly and insult and disdain whether they are present or not in the National Assembly. I give you my first warning. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and then by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Please, the agreement that we have on how to use the Rules of Procedure is compared to the measure in which the Rules of Procedure is used and misused, as well as the time we use to discuss in particular, because there is a discussion in which the amendment in which it is not mentioned once. I really ask that we use the Rules of Procedure to address it, but that we do not abuse it beyond the measure that creates the basis for giving criminal measures. Here you go, and I'm sorry to keep you waiting during this explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6423	I understand you best, since I'm paying the fines here. Of course, I've come to call in Article 104 and Article 104. 225 and 226. I hope you don't mind if I try one more picturesque way to explain what this is about. Of course, this amendment Mr. Milic filed, and he understands these things, given that he was once Deputy Minister of the Interior, 13,000 people then arrested, etc., he knows very well what BIA... For BIA this year three billion were planned and something, there are three thousand employees etc. But there's one thing we can't possibly talk about in the National Assembly, this minister doesn't know about it, this man is in charge of agriculture. We can't get someone here who's in charge of the National Security Council. Maybe I misnamed it. I think that's where the bench is. And, of course, we support what Milic has suggested to reduce their 300 million. Why? Because the possibility of abuse is less. That's what we need someone to explain, so to say -- you're wrong, if 300 million dollars for the BIA position is being destroyed, security is being threatened in this respect, that view, that view. We have silence here. We need those notices. Here, we fully claim that when that part of the budget is cut by three hundred and a few million for the BIA, then the material assumption of abuses by the BIA is destroyed. What are these abuses? The BIA is totally political. The National Security Council, this Miki Rakic is a secretary, he is also head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic... I'll tell you a story later that Vukic told me a few months ago about six of the most powerful people in Serbia. I don't know if he's lying. All I know is that Srdjan Milivojevic says that Vukic started taking yellow medications. That's what Srdjan just said. It was funny, and it's true, Srdjan. He'd have to take his meds regularly, but I don't want to talk about it right now. So, Mrs. Comic, in order for us to talk and to understand what Mr. Milic was going to say, and I support him, this side is all behind him, someone from the National Security Council has to come here, a minister or someone who's following that area, the Prime Minister, to explain to us why the 300 million benefits for the state. We say that this 300 million is a waste to the state; em spends, em money represents a material basis for abuse of position.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6424	There's no breach of Article 104. The budget is agreed as an act among the ministries, and then to the services, during the process when it is in the draft, and in the proposal; when, as a law amending the Budget Law, it enters the procedure in the Assembly, then there is the finance minister to give all the necessary answers. In order to obtain the information you are looking for, and there are no injuries to Article 104, you can only ask the Minister or in writing to make a request for an explanation of how communication took place between the BIA and the Ministry of Finance during the establishment of the budget's appraisal and position. The word has been made by the MP Fired Mihajlovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6425	Your Honor, this time I am speaking to this congregation because I believe that a member of 104 has been injured. I will quote this second paragraph of his: "The People's Messengers are obliged to address one another with respect. "Mrs. Comic, when you gave me your warning, you used exactly this quote. However, I was talking about a man who is not a national MP, who belongs to a non-parliamentary party and who has not entered this assembly, and if things go this way, they won't even get in, because this people are not crazy, ma'am. On the other hand, I got that punishment for making some diagnosis. No, you didn't hear me. I asked the health department if he was able to make that diagnosis, if it was what I assumed it was. As an amateur, of course, I can't make that diagnosis; amateurally, I know things about medicine, I have a lot of general education. That looks like schizophrenia to me. So, I ask the Ministry of Health if the case of Alexander Vukic, especially in the case of the Krtkovci, is it schizophrenia and if it is schizophrenia, is it possible for this man to get out of Serbia's political life? I am doing this precisely because I want to respect, as it says here, the dignity of this assembly, and by respecting the dignity of this assembly, I also respect the dignity of the Serbian people. I don't want Alexander Vukic to bring the Serbian people into street fights and, God forbid, and everything seems to me to be his greatest wish and mission in the real civil war. That's it, Mrs. Comic. Next time, before you give me a sentence, listen carefully, think and measure. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6426	There's no breach of Article 104. I listened very carefully. By looking at the stenogram and comparing what you have said in the previous presentation and explaining why I have given you the reminder, you can find that I listen very carefully to every speaker, because it is my obligation to respect a member who implies that I take care of the order, even while the MPs and your colleagues earn and thereby violate Article 104. No, I'm talking about your colleagues who earn while I'm giving you an explanation. And now you're throwing it away. To respect the Rules of Procedure, since Firen Mihajlovic asks - what to do, to respect the Rules of Procedure. Any expressions expressed at the National Assembly speaker must comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is respect and respect for the dignity of the National Assembly. That's what I told you in the explanation. The word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure wants a national MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, received a word based on Article 100(1), so MP Ognjen Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6427	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, using the possibility from the Rules of Procedure, and of course referring to the article. In 225 and 226, I'd like to ask one question, first of all, to the public prosecutor, and then to the police minister, given the headlines that we saw yesterday and today in the press. Here (shows the newspaper): "The Shechell sentenced me to death"; yesterday's: "The Shekel seeks blood." We know that behind this list, this isn't any commercial, is Dragan Gilas. We also know that behind this list stands personally, informally, Alexander Vukic. See how he wants peace. You know what, you don't need to be too smart to realize that this is about a new media race - so, stage events, just like NATO's pact did in time. All the titles and statements you can see these days, related to the Krtkovci, are written and made to further make the position of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal more difficult. I want to tell this Vukic and this Tomislav Nikolic that they have no reason to fear the Serbian Radical Party at all. They may be afraid of someone, perhaps of themselves, perhaps of their own conscience, perhaps of those whose name and money they played for on this political scene in this way, so they failed to fulfill the task they were meant to fulfill. Their statements related to the HDZ support policy, a statement given in "Globus" in time to "sanaderize" Serbia and that Tomislav Nikolic will be the new Sanader in Serbia, are in fact a confirmation that what HDZ did in the 1990s in Serbia and against Serbs is now being done by Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. Their fear is, I suppose, justified, but here, and this way I tell them, they shouldn't be afraid of the Serbian Radical Party. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, no one in this country has ever been threatened. This isn't the first time anyone's tried to do damage to the SRS, and no one's head hair is missing. Here, they won't miss the hair on their heads either. Let them do their job. Their problem is they're used to ovations wherever they appear, but it doesn't matter what flag they appear under. It was easy when the Serbian Radical Party went ahead of them, behind them, around them, and the flag of the SRS. Now they're nothing. No wonder the people spit on them, he calls them all sorts of ugly names wherever they appear. To record some success in these local elections, which they hoped for, that's their illusion. I'm glad that's not gonna happen... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. This will be another proof that there is no place for traitors on this political scene. Here, let the public prosecutor deal with these headlines in this paper and let him tell us what it is, as well as the police minister, here, I am just calling him to examine all these facts and circumstances that Serbian citizens today can read about in this newspaper, let him report to us. I don't think he's involved, but I'm sure he can tell us what it's all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6428	I ask the service to present a national message to Gordana Pop-Lazic with a request for an explanation to be forwarded to the Ministry of the Interior. The D.A.'s office... The Republic Public Prosecutor? That's why I'm asking, just to be clear. No matter what. 225 and 226 do not include deadlines, please add to the stenogram a request from the chairman to forward the notice to the MPs as soon as possible. The word has been made by the MP Fired Mihajlovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6429	Mrs. Komic, explaining to me why I was punished earlier, like any real demagogue, you used only one part of that story. You didn't tell me if I was right when I said that Alexander Vukic was not an MP in this assembly, because the first part of the explanation of my sentence was precisely on that basis - you insulted the other MP. I didn't take into my mouth any present person here, whether he was an MP or not, only Alexander Vukic, one of the feathers of the newly formed vanparliamentary party; the right to tell you, I don't know what they're called, I don't care. So, in my address, I had a sincere intention to warn the population of Serbia that a man whose health is not under control is currently on the political scene of our country. That's what I'm convinced of. Of course, I repeat, I'm not diagnosing, I think. Let the Ministry of Health answer that, whether I'm right or wrong. But you tell me in private, you can tell me afterwards, even though it would be nice for the people to hear it, if it's normal to put the title in the paper "Shessel's looking for blood"? I've known Alexander Vukic well since the moment he came to Pale in November 1992 as a volunteer in Serbian television, and I know this can only be his wetlands and no one else's. He also had such attempts in the Serbian Radical Party to round up political opponents and for what they were not guilty of. Of course, we were under Dr. Seselj's control, so such things didn't happen; there were only arguments and arguments in our party newspaper. But now, out of control, that man is capable of burning Serbia. I appeal to the competent ministries, I repeat, especially the Ministry of Health, to deal seriously with this problem, with a radioactive isotopic, which is capable of moving from the foundation all that is during this little democracy, which this poor people have been breathing for just about 15 years, and that is not true democracy, the people have managed to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6430	National MP, for up to two minutes and 33 seconds, you have not said which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. No, you can't get the word back. You must respect the Rules of Procedure. The MP says he forgot. This can also be viewed as the basis for disrespect of the National Assembly. If you want to go out and speak to the MPs of the people, then it is essential that you remember everything you need to say at the speaker of the National Assembly. The MP throws away – is that an argument? I give you a second warning. The way you addressed the MPs on three occasions, the way you address the National Assembly, is a violation of all the views of Members 104 and the basis for giving notice. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure by thinking that we can talk about anyone... With insight into the stenogram, MP Fired Mihajlovic can see it. We cannot speak at the National Assembly about anyone in this congregation or outside this congregation about the attitudes he has used in his presentation on many occasions. It's simply inadmissible because it violates the dignity of this home. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6431	Ms. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. I would like to ask the competent Ministry of Local Self-Government and State Authorities a question, and in relation to Article 5. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of what political parties in Serbia are doing. I ask that, as soon as possible, Milan Markovic, Minister of Local Self-Government, and that, on the basis of all of this, we have recently registered this phantom Progressive Party, told the citizens of Serbia whether he could, as well as other competent authorities, of course, have mentioned the MUP and BIA to conclude that the actions of individuals, and above all, mentioned today by the unfortunate Alexander Vukic, as opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, in Article 5 of Article 3, states that the unauthorized operation of political parties directed at the violent destruction of constitutional order (which he obviously wants to insinuate some non-existent event which he designed only in his head in Hrtkovci), violation of guaranteed human or minority rights - which he is doing through these media quoted by Mrs Gordan, who are also a member of the General Party, who is a member of the General of the Croatian Party, or a member of the Croatian Party of the Croatian Party, or a member of the General of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, things have taken a turn in Serbia over the past month, in a way that not only disturbs the public, but through the placement of such worst possible ones, not to say some more difficult expression, lies, directed against the Serbian Radical Party and our president, and which is directly behind Alexander Vukic... You know, he's not able to organize meetings and groups with criminals, like Wolfich, who's actually the brains of the entire operation. Nikolic, who has already announced that he will retire to guard sheep and grandchildren, has been dragged into it because he is listed on the Vucic list for the time being as someone who can contribute to a number of votes, but since they have already begun to take hold of their throats, it will take a short while, so what the people say, "by both of them, whom the outsiders". Mrs. Pop-Lazic, dear colleague, you mentioned and showed here for the assembly speaker one of these magazines, which you rightly say, knows all of Serbia, as we Serbian radicals who had to buy ten copies a day to put money in the pocket... It's this "Justice", in fact, they call it "Kekec" by its founder, Kekec, Alexander Vukic. Every day, you can read stories about both the phantom party and how they are very advanced and how well they want Serbian citizens. In fact, the truth is quite different. In all, this operation, which is, in the most part, against the law and against the constitution, must come under review by the competent authorities that registered the so-called political party. Mrs. Komic, you were really wrong because you have been an MP since 2000, you were also vice president of the Assembly and you know very well that Aleksandar Vukic has since then had manic-depressive episodes that have obviously grown to the highest degree of schizophrenia, so you should never have given a warning to Mr. Ognjen Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6432	I ask you, People's Parliament, that you do not speak behind a pay phone by violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. As toleranceous as they are to each other, some things cannot be spoken at the speaker of the National Assembly. I ask you all to take care of it, it's a matter of self-esteem much more than respect for the National Assembly. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 14 amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6433	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Section 14, Article 5, with the goal that some of the funds planned for this subsidy in the area of agriculture will increase by one billion, so from seven billion to eight billion. We from the Serbian Progressive Party believe that the subsidy in agriculture must be significantly greater than it was this year, especially in recent years, because if we have defined ourselves, and we as a party have been identified as joining the European Union, we must subsidise our agriculture by about as much as this agricultural production is subsidized in the countries of the European Union. Certainly, the reality is that we must also respect our country's economic strength and the possibility of segregating into the agricultural budget. But if our land rappers are in the environment, so the former countries that were together with us in one common state, it can be seen that they are significantly greater separations precisely for subsidising agriculture in Croatia, close to BiH and Macedonia, and not to compare with the European Union where the allocation of about 120 euros per capita is for subsidising agricultural production, which is at about 20 euros or something below 20 euros. Furthermore, what bothers us more is that we are fighting for a larger agrarian budget is exactly a strategy for the development of agriculture that the former Ministry of Agriculture has been working on. I'm sorry that Mr. Dragin, the resolute minister, took a short break, but I think he'd be a very good supporter of what I'm talking about here today. So, the previous Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry worked intensively on the development strategy of agriculture and almost the entire term of office was spent on it. Through these projections, they also projected that the agrarian budget in 2008 would be at 6% of the total budget and that in 2012, it would be somewhere at 10% of the total budget. It means the agrarian budget will be 10%. We are in favour of such a strategy and of such separation and investment in agricultural production. We hope that it will already come true when the next budget is adopted for 2009. I think the Ministry of Agriculture will have heard and will bear in mind everything that is not fulfilled and realised this year in terms of subsidisation, promotion and transformation of agricultural production, that will be done. What we must certainly do in the next period is change the structure of the value achieved in agriculture. In our country, this relationship is about 60% in plant production, and only about 40% in livestock production. In developed agrarian countries, this is in a completely different relationship; the value structure of agricultural production is achieved - 70% in livestock production and only 30% in plant production. Of course, for such a change of structure, it is necessary to allocate much, much more resources. Our chance will be next year if we get candidate status for accession to the European Union, because we will be able to make significant use of access funds, so on and so on. IPA funds, especially that so-called. The SAPARD programme for rural development of agricultural production. Unfortunately, in recent years, insufficient funds have been allocated to develop and improve agricultural production in rural areas. Our country must make a lot more efforts to revitalise villages, to improve the social status of rural citizens, to keep the majority of young people in the country busy in agricultural production. So, in this sense, much larger funds will also be allocated. Furthermore, what awaits us as a problem, which we already have to take care of now, which will include the provision of larger funds in the agrarian budget and therefore greater funds to subsidise agricultural production, these are expected disturbances in the financial markets and in our country, as they are now recorded in the world. Because the definition of our country, and above all, the Ministry of Agriculture, is to finance the purchase of equipment, through the allocation of long-term loans, means equipment, and mechanisms, and watering systems, and plastics, greenhouses, the raising of multi-annual plantings, means, everything that requires larger financial resources, goes through business banks. We are witnessing that business banks are already increasing loans both for housing issues and for many other things; there will be tightening criteria for the allocation and long-term credits for improving agricultural production, that interest will be increased above all. The Ministry has defined by its regulation that these funds are allocated on the basis of the purchase of equipment and all subsidisation by subsidising interest that is subsidized from precisely these funds which will be further granted through rebalancing. But we have to plan that this will be more resources in the coming year, so that, on this basis, there will have to be more subsidies to subsidise and these interest, to approve these long-term loans, because this is the only option for modern mechanization, to advance agricultural production, and especially to speed up the watering of our agricultural areas and to raise new plastics and greenhouses, to grow vegetables, as well as to raise long-term plantations that will allow for increased fruit production. So also in this respect, the Ministry of Agriculture, and above all the Ministry of Finance, because it is the most responsible for the budget, must have the understanding that these additional funds are being made possible. I hope that these funds that we're going to vote through budget rebalance, too, i.e. which you will first of all vote in the ruling coalition, use to subsidise in a greater amount of interest on these types of loans, because, unfortunately, a regulation on interest subsidies has been adopted late and few loans are granted for the purchase of equipment, machinery and everything else. Furthermore, what awaits us in the coming period, from the beginning of next year, is the implementation of this Transition Trade Agreement, which includes the reduction of customs duties on agricultural products that will enter our country. The opinion of a good number of agricultural experts has already been expressed, and it seems to me that in some public appearances, the minister himself said that our agricultural production may have some problems because of the full opening of the market and free imports of certain agricultural products without customs burdens, i.e. with reduced customs duties. I must remind you that we have been given clear assessments of our opportunities to be involved in the international market. In a publication issued only by the Ministry through an analysis of agricultural production, and also on the website of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, it is clear what are currently limiting factors for our competitiveness in the area of agricultural production on the European market. Here, I'll read a few points at the shortest. First, it is a poor range of food products, especially in relation to the modern offer in the developed world. Research on the full use of existing capacities through the introduction of lines and products has been launched, i.e. the spread of food flavourings based on existing basic, aggregated and secondary agricultural raw materials. Then, there is a strong fluctuation in product quality, either due to lack of standards, or because of the lack of respect and absence of control of valid standards. Next, it is a slow adjustment to the market criteria of business, i.e. the introduction of modern management and marketing. Then, we take insufficient care of packaging and packaging of agricultural products and thus achieve insufficient competition on the world market. Furthermore, the absence of long-term firm contractual relations between the food industry and the raw material producers, as well as the non-building of appropriate organisational and economic relations on cooperative principles between producers, agriculture and processing industries. Finally, there is certainly a lack of economic and market integration between agriculture and those sectors of the industry used by agricultural products, as well as those produced for agriculture. What is also present, and what has been shown during this year, especially since harvesting summer crops, pasture grains and corn, is that the instability of the agricultural products market remains. So, they're still the most endangered agricultural producers, as well as grain and industrial plants, which will go through new legal solutions, and some have already arrived at parliament... I must publicly commend the current Ministry of Agriculture and Minister Dragin for making an effort after many years to get the laws in the area of agriculture into this Parliament. The agricultural market for agricultural products must be stabilised. I think the good part has been disturbed by the long-term existence of a ban on the export of cereals, wheat and corn. Then, the price of corn must have fallen because the livestock stock has been significantly destroyed and the number of cattle has been significantly reduced, and therefore there are no primary consumers. Also, bioethanol production as fuel is somewhat reduced because oil as an energy had lower prices these last two to two and a half months. It's, by some free estimate, the factors that affected the drop in the price of these agricultural products. Finally, Madam Chairman, allow me to address the gentlemen of the radicals and ask them to stop physically distracting our representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party and the MPs elected to this House. Please stop insulting the personality and reputation of Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, president and deputy president of the Serbian Progressive Party, because these are the prominent citizens of this country who enjoy the reputation of all the social and intellectual structures of this country. Am I right or are you and your actions and yours, without grounds...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6434	Excuse me, MP Zorana Mašić, wait for me to speak to the MP Momir Markovic. You're being punished. There's a video of your behavior -- undosed paws on the bench where you're sitting, inappropriately moving into the bench and throwing out the bench and distracting the speaker. You're getting a warning. I ask you to stop the behavior that first of all speaks of lack of self-respect and respect for all of us when it comes to this joke. Here you go, MP, you've got 35 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6435	Thank you. As a confirmation of what I have certainly expected, and we will look into each other's eyes after 9 November, whether you step forward, your behaviour, your degradation of this parliament and insult the personality of the people who have turned into a new party who insists on Serbia's political scene... Citizens will judge in the local elections in Ruma, Prepolje, Vrnjačka Banja and Knjaževec whether they support Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandra Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party or the Serbian Radical Party, as you present it here to the Serbian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6436	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before I give that notice that I want to give, I want to say that there is no greater and more brutal violation of this House's dignity than is the fact that the mandates have been stolen and that the electoral will of the citizens has been altered. In this context goes this information I want to give to the Assembly, or fellow Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6438	People's MPs, members of 225 and 226 who are from the area of the rights and duties of Members of the People's Parliament, and not in violation of the course of procedures, are members who allow MPs to seek the information they need to work. You can't inform the Assembly by these members. Thank you. For the second time, I ask you to measure the use and abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which we have a silent agreement on, we respect. So, if we quietly agreed to abuse the Rules of Procedure, or use the Rules of Procedure, Article. 225 and 226, then I ask you to respect what these members require of us, because if we do not, you leave me absolutely no space except to apply the Rules of Procedure in the most unpopular part, in our Parliament and in each, and that is to say the criminal measures for which there is an obvious basis. National MP Milan Avramovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 27 as "President of the National Assembly", in this case as vice president of the National Assembly, "executes the work envisaged by the Constitution". The Constitution, Article 102, says: "The MP is free to, under the conditions of a certain law, irrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of the political party on whose proposal he was elected as a MP." I also advertise Article 104 - dignity; you were in charge, Mrs. Komic, as chairman, to respond to the previous speaker's presentation when he mentioned here - we are elected here and we represent them and they will evaluate it when they vote for the SNS. You know well that the SNS did not participate in the previous elections, that it did not enter the Serbian Parliament, because it could not, did not participate. When the speaker said so, you did not call for the dignity of this assembly, but responded to the reaction of Mr. Momir Markovic, who demonstrates by his rank the irregularities you allow here. So, by the nature of things, when it comes to implementing democracy the way you do it in the Assembly, we can imagine how you do it in Serbia, where there is no transmission. You give a warning to make your job easier. So I warn you, if you already care about dignity, if you care about the conduct of the Messengers, worry about what the speaker says. Don't worry about it just when the MPs of the SRS say it. If an MP came out here and made marketing and advertising for his party, it is his right, but if he said that thanks to his website he is present here, and you know that it is not true, then it is your right to act and protect the right of those voters and those MPs who are representatives of these voters. So don't just answer what goes in favor of you and what you find appropriate or desirable at the given moment, but realistically, to all alike. The warnings are your way of demonstrating force. There is a situation, and it is recorded by the camera, when you need to warn MPs of your position and you do not do it, and when you need to warn the MPs of the opposition you are looking forward to it. Now I draw your attention, lest it be repeated, that we begin with you, if you keep the dignity of the congregation evenly, then everyone else will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6440	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. I'm sure we both know that. National MP Zoran Masic has the status of MP, has the mandate in the National Assembly and all the rights and duties arising from that mandate, as long as he addresses members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly who prescribe the way they are addressed. Since you mentioned the Constitution, let me remind you immediately that the violation of the Constitution cannot be the subject of a breach of procedure, however illogical it may seem to me and you. If there has been a breach of the Constitution, it is not you or I who are in charge of it, but the Constitutional Court and those who, under the Constitutional Court Act, appeal for the assessment of constitutionality, or for the violation of the Constitution. So there's no breach of Article 27. You've told a lie. I do not make a distinction between MPs, all 250 MPs have the exact same rights. You can check that with the MPs who share some of us with the ruling majority MPs and MPs of the opposition. I have neither done nor done, nor will I, because it is forbidden to do so as chair. I can't tell you my personal opinion about it; if and when I take my word for the speaker, then I will give you a personal answer to the views you have made about me during the hearing about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6441	Madam Chairman, I believe you have ruined the dignity of the National Assembly. I think you've hurt Article 27. The previous speaker, not Mr Avramovic, but a gentleman before Mr Avramovic, represented the interests of the party that did not participate in the previous elections. The notice, report or solution of the RIK we received, I think all MPs have it, and it is known exactly which party has the right to have mandates, as far as the party belongs to the mandate and everything else in accordance with this: speaking time, position on committees, etc. So, the MP did not speak on behalf of some parliamentary group, but on behalf of a party that was not parliamentary and did not participate in the elections. The dissatisfaction that the SRS is expressing and the way it says it is is not a novelty in Serbia; political practice in Serbia was introduced ten or twelve years ago. If you remember, Mrs. Komic, and then there was an election theft, i.e. an end to the electoral will of citizens. However, since Serbia is now emancipated on the EU threshold, at the time it was done in a brutal and primitive way, votes were stolen in boxes, at polling stations, today being done modernly and in line with European standards -- in parliament. Then those who were stolen and whose electoral will was objectively expressed through victory in Serbia's political practice introduced pots, pots, lids and whistles. And they appeared very neatly every day and expressed their revolt and dissatisfaction, no matter how much it bothered some. I welcome it, they were consistent, and they returned their will that way. In this experience and in these manners, the SRS has no intention of giving up whatever repressive measures you are applying, from facts and demands that we return to our mandates here in this House. However, those who were then denied, or those who had denied someone to win, had to find some Solomonian solution, a Lex specialis, if you remember, I think you remember that well. You are now denied for all these problems; all you have to do is respect the Constitution, you have to respect the law, express a little political will and principles and the problem you objectively have in the Assembly will be overcome and things will end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6442	There's no damage to article 27. People's MP Zoran Masic, whose presentation you call part of the sentence - the MP before the MP (I pronounce the name because you did not want it, and that it remains fully clear in the stenogram, because in order to understand who you were referring to), has the mandate of the MP and of all the rights and responsibilities that come from the mandate of the MP, members of the Parliament group, both during the session and in the National Assembly have the same rights as all of us other 249 MPs. All I can do during the session is respect that fact as long as it is a fact for each of us 250 MPs. As far as your attitude is concerned, by banging the benches, you're interrupting the session of the National Assembly... National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic says she couldn't sleep from those who knocked down the street. I can understand that, because it was really loud. So MP Dragan Stevanovic explains to the National Assembly that by banging on the inventory of the National Assembly he wants to distract the speaker. It's a sound that's heard very clearly in the O.R., sometimes in direct transmission. People's MPs who, by hitting inventory, produce a sound that should not produce, if they want to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, cannot be punished or warned because it is not the behavior that the chairman can see, and I have no right to because I suspect that someone is banging anyone. National MP Momir Markovic was warned because of a clear blow to the inventory, inappropriate shouting, throwing and inappropriate address to the MP who was behind the pay phone, and that is the situation in which we are sitting during this session. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6443	Mrs. Komic, I am reporting, as you chair, under Article 104 to protect the dignity of the National Assembly. We are just in direct television transmission, and you have repeatedly mentioned the congregation inventory during the explanations you gave to MP Dragan Stevanović. Serbian citizens may think that the SRS parliamentary group -- which is using its legitimate right to protect its mandates stolen by this outlaw group led by Vukic and Nikolic, the criminal group, in political, and Vukic, of course, and in this other sense by the clan of people -- is indeed a group of people who want to destroy something in the National Assembly Hall. This National Assembly, this building and this inventory come back from Broz and Cardell's realistic time, and we are decent people, and regardless of what this equipment is old and what this building is buried eight meters below ground and under this slope and under this light is located here in downtown Belgrade, and you know that the conditions for working in it are extremely difficult, especially for us who have been here for years and we don't see a white day, then it's really inappropriate for you to say that we're banging an inventory of some kind of violation. They'll think we want to destroy the National Assembly Hall. First of all, it's impossible because these are wooden benches like on a second-class train, because that was the case with Broz and Cardell -- they're having a great time on Santa, they're having a good time in their houses, they're enjoying the Brionys and everywhere, and those who were delegates at that time... Because, at the time, these older MPs knew, only those who had nothing to do, or some small ones from these administrative districts went to those delegate benches of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I must tell you, Mrs. Comic, that unlike us who are very gentle and subtle, and can be heard in transmission, we express and demonstrate against theft and robbery... Once alone, and you are a witness to it, Mrs. Comic, a rude violation of the dignity of the National Assembly -- when Tomislav Nikolic broke the fourth bench in this row, here behind Mrs. Pop-Lazic. In fact, he's been ripped off so much and he's been pulling the bench so much, I think they're standing there today, and they're hammered; it's the first time that an inventory of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been destroyed, when they tried to bring him out by cops. That's when he pretended to be a radical, and that's how he wanted to fight back, but he dragged so much... And he couldn't, yet he was weak, but he was helped by Professor Seselj, so the bench was thrown out of the bed, but Tomislav Nikolic ripped out. So much for vandalism. So, the one there we know who was burning, we know who destroyed October 5th, and this room was only torn down by Tomislav Nikolic who now, falsely representing himself, is sitting in parliamentary benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6444	No injured Article 104. I used the term "inventory" so I wouldn't order that the MPs hit the surface of the bench, under the bench, the page, the back, the pen, etc. Noting that it's decent to call everything in the National Assembly, from which banging makes sound, an inventory. If you find that word inappropriate, I apologize, then I will sort out all the parts of the furniture that someone is hitting and making noise by disturbing the speaker and considering it to be their political right to defocus the speaker and not to be allowed to speak. I can only repeat that there is no punishment, because in order for the basis for punishment to be created, it must be undisputedly determined that it was this and that MP of the people or this and that MP who broke the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. The People's Messenger Arpad Fremond, followed by the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, then the People's Messenger Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6445	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and the SVM our suggestions and objections regarding the tabled amendment. We support the initiative to increase subsidies. We do not believe that the 2008 budget rebalance is sufficient for subsidies to all agricultural holdings. The forecasted 2008 budget was spent by the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry in May of this year. The budget rebalancing, according to our estimates, will not be enough again to reconcile subsidies to agricultural producers. Our view is that by increasing subsidies, the Ministry of Agriculture can settle its obligations to all registered owners, who have been waiting for their money for half a year by the end of 2008. The 2008 budget, unfortunately, was not well planned because the interest of agricultural producers in subsidies was greater than anticipated. There is concern that in 2009 it will be an even bigger problem. It would be crazy if the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, headed by the minister, would not allow agricultural production under the same conditions as small and large producers. As an MP living in northern Backa, in a place where citizens live on agriculture and in most cases all producers are heterogenic and there are lots of small farmers, I have to draw your attention to this problem. We aim to in future each hectare gets a subsidisation for re-promatter, because it is a general social interest. In the European Union, it is a practice for each agricultural producer to receive funds on the basis of declared farmland. It's alarming that the Ministry can say that it divides manufacturers into real and hobby manufacturers. We think it's discrimination. Every agricultural producer that has registered ownership is a real producer. With full right, they should expect and receive subsidies. What belongs to large landowners belongs to small producers. If smaller holdings do not receive subsidies, it will fail in a short period and will not be able to produce. We advocate that the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry develop a strategy for small and heterogeneous agricultural producers how and what to produce and find a stimulating solution for them. If the government really wants to invest in Serbia's rural development, it must not forget small agricultural producers. They're triggers, they're the foundation and backbone of rural development. The agriculture ministry should develop a programme to develop agricultural production that will bring us closer to EU farmers. If we want to join the EU, we should strive to produce under the same conditions as in other European countries in the region. Otherwise, we will not be competitive on the foreign market. Without exports, agricultural producers, peasants in Serbia, and especially in Vojvodina, Europe's cereals, have no future. We sincerely hope that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry will respect our objections and suggestions and will install them into the 2009 budget. We hope that the small and heterogeneous agricultural producers will be taken more into account in the coming years. We also hope that professionalism will be introduced into agriculture gradually, not by force, as soon as possible. We have to take care of people and families living in small villages, far from cities, and live off agriculture. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6446	The word has been given by MP Momir Markovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6447	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, thanks to one harsh misunderstanding, I received a warning. I've been reminding the applicant of the amendment to return to the amendment. I didn't disturb him, so he wouldn't, if he was distracted, that it was my fault. Namely, the person submitted the amendment (I can't say the MP, because it didn't) to Section 14, Section 14, function 420, economic classification 451. He asked for a billion dinars to be given to that economic classification 451. The economic classification of 451 reads - the schedule and use of the funds of this appraisal will take place under a special government act. Part of the assets of this appraisal, worth 400 million, are used for the development of the village, for a specific programme of support for the development of agriculture and rural development, concerning members of the Roma national community. I remind you that in no word did he mention the Roma national community. So he was telling an empty story. The second part of this appraisal, amounting to 600 million dinars, is used for rural development, for a specific programme of support for the development of agriculture and rural development, concerning members of the socially endangered, displaced and refugees. In one word, did this person who wrote this amendment mention displaced faces? Did one single word mention the Roma national community, or Roma national community living in the village, so that these 600 million or 400 million were directed at them? It's not. Speaking of places, I wanted him back on his amendment, talking about his amendment, not telling an empty story. That's what I referred him to. The president misunderstood me and gave me a warning. As for banging in the bench, I personally saw from that spot that the chairman had just begun to bang with a pencil. I felt that it was no longer forbidden in the congregation, so I started banging a pen to warn this person to return to the amendment. However, she warned me about it, but she allowed him to propagate his non-existent party, more specifically, only recorded it. On which list did the certain Mašić get his parliamentary mandate? On the list of the non-existent party, the party that did not run in the elections, which did not exist in those elections, and as it stands, will not exist in the next one. Did he get his citizens' trust in his name and last name? With an amendment like this, I doubt the doctor's thesis you were defending. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when someone puts their cheeks under their feet or under another part of the body, where their backs stop being politely called, then they can behave like this. It's not a problem, ladies and gentlemen, that they're not afraid of anything, the problem is they're not ashamed of anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6448	People's MP, I thank you for saying in your stenogram that there was a basis for giving a warning. No one, except the chairman, can warn the speaker to remind him, according to Article 103, that he is coming back on the subject. I am grateful to you that twice in your speech you said that you violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and threw the speaker out of place in an attempt to distract him, so the reminder was given. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6449	It is extremely good when a debate on an amendment is opened and then all those participating in the discussion make a proper contribution, regardless of style. In the end, something that might look like the truth. The minority representative spoke earlier and he was very nice, if I may say so, x-rayed and he said: at the beginning it was known that these funds would be insufficient, these funds were long spent, what the rebalancing predicted would not satisfy these basic needs and nothing was practically solved. The situation, which probably corresponds to the truth, is being amended by a citizen, rather than using some political parties represented in the National Assembly to interpret it, and this amendment is based on the following: praises to the Ministry of Agriculture. Now, the citizen who wrote the amendment "cats go around you" says: "Well done, ministers, you did everything right this year, and the minority representative, who came to support the amendment, points to all the failures of the Ministry of Agriculture. The difference is this: the minority representative deals with this business, knows what it is and how it is, and this citizen you just titled here somehow, to me very strangely and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is strange, has submitted an amendment and is asking to increase it by a billion to be then -- we have suggested, it is increasing, now we are going to recalibrate. Don't adopt this amendment, not because there are these disturbances under the Budget Law, but when you adopt the amendment for them, you saw, he praises you, immediately afterwards comes one of his own to recruit you. The public in Serbia criticises the government of the Republic of Serbia, criticises the agriculture ministry. Only those who have submitted the amendment must praise the Ministry of Agriculture. Isn't that a little crazy for you? I know the DS is also critical of what's going on at the Department of Agriculture. They probably think there's more resources to be allocated, there's a gap; what's going on in Vojvodina about land, subsidies, you know that best. There's only one man out here who praises the Ministry of Agriculture. Why? Because that sect of his is conditioned. What position is the amendment in? Here, for the public to explain: Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, division 14, I'm not going to go to what's 14,1, 14.2 etc., just split up 14. The funds have been planned for nearly 25 billion. This position of intervention by amendment is position 451, where 22, nearly 23, billion are planned, and now this amendment increases by a billion. When you look at that position, it's probably 70-80% of the total amount in division 14. When funds are spent from that position, they are spent on the basis of programs, plans, and little on the basis of explicit legal provisions. Similar to the NIP: separate for Vojvodina and Pajtic passes like Santa Claus through Vojvodina; where his local government can do this, what, and where the other rule is gone. I've been listening to you for three years and a disaster. There is no Velija Ilic here to tell us how the price of meat and other agricultural products stands. I don't have the tendency to do these things and convince someone how difficult it is for him, and I know he's having a hard time. There is something in this position that means the development of rural areas that are underdeveloped. We have some developed villages near the cities; this which is far from the city is far from the eye, far from the heart. All villages in the border of the Republic of Serbia are a disaster, an absolute disaster. Elderly households, not economically trained for reproduction, not available, no one to come and buy. They don't know which production to organize, abandoned fields become meadows, and that's development. Now comes a major sponsor of rural development, called the Divac Government. Please, in these 40 and 60 million, and especially in these 60 million where the evasive faces appear, I recognize that you're hosting something here with him. He's a big donor with other people's money, and he's not his own. He allegedly tried something to his own: "Prince Milos", so he tried this, and so on; now Dacic brought him there, whether he wasn't doing stupid things, whether to advise him, it doesn't matter, but to keep him under control in some way. You don't have development policy, you don't see villages, you see tycoons in agriculture. An ordinary farmer cannot produce agricultural production that would be positive, he cannot. This tycoon part of agriculture makes extra profit. Many agricultural and food products from abroad that could be made here are still coming to our market in a non-critical, non-selective way. Why? It's your policy to place this on someone's plate, not our market. What have you done to prevent all that is negative in our villages? Were you in the municipality of Kurzumli, in the municipality of Prokuplje, in the municipality of Bujanovac? Did you see that bullet part over there? What did you see? What did you do? What kind of stimulant did you give in view of the way, in terms of electricity, in terms of something, to keep these people there to live? Nothing. You took a picture of Milan Markovic wearing some sacks. Some of them wore crates here, remember? What's the difference between crates and sacks? Same story, same thing. So, you're bad at the Ministry, you're doing bad work, you're bad at results. Don't adopt this amendment, they'll be recalibrating you immediately. I'm not going to read now, not to embarrass people. A little bit, little bit, we get the bills, then the Wolf posters, so this, so what, now comes the bill. Escaped. If you adopt their amendment, then you'll have to pay this to them, very simple and simple. Their policy comes down to tycoon, government and security racketeering here some quorum, some voices and causing, provoking the SRS. Mrs. Comic, the Serbian Radical Party did everything necessary, filed criminal charges, filed charges. You expect us to do something impossible - to give you something Tomislav Nikolic says he lost. We can't do that. To initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, I'm sorry, please, that's impossible. Whoever told you that, that's the one who cheated on you. Boris Tadic and his intelligence are keeping this small group here so that the public in Serbia can pay attention to whether someone is throwing someone away in the Assembly, whether someone is annoying here, to turn the discussion, to allegedly come out afterwards and say -- radicals just talk about mandates, don't talk about the needs of citizens. Oh, we're talking about the needs of the citizens of life. Well, one of our MPs told you, you had some trouble with the election. Gonzales had to come running. We have here the theft of the electoral will of citizens in the Serbian Parliament thanks to Boris Tadic. Not you, just Boris Tadic. Why? To finish the dirtiest job in The Hague. If the Serbian Radical Party's influence is reduced, it will be easier to kill Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. That's where you cooperate with them unconsciously, not what you want, but that's what Boris Tadic wants. That's the concept. So, don't even accept the amendment for a living head. Consider this discussion if you are making a budget for next year. How can you accept the amendment for them, so they also took the oaths they signed in the church?- I'm sorry. Who can trust them? Once a traitor is always a traitor. Remember, once a traitor is always a traitor. If they could fool their best man, if they could fool the SRS, they'd cheat on you, too, it's only a matter of days.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6450	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Milutin Jelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Minister of Agriculture, the Honorable Citizens, I am sorry that this amendment was not adopted by the Government, and I hope that, after this argument, they may adopt it when there is a vote. Now let me give you a brief explanation of what this is all about. In Article 5, Chapter 14. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, economic classification 451 - subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in column 6 - appropriations from the budget, amount of 22,545,875,209 is changed in 19,545,875,209 or in column 8 - total amount of 22,959,020,641 is amended to 19,959,020,641. In Article 5, Chapter 14. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the economic classification of 512 - machinery and equipment, in column 6, the budget funds, amounting to 40,951,702 is changed to 3,040,951,702, i.e. in column 8 - total assets, amounting to 78,162,523 is replaced by 3,078,162,523. Explanation: The existing mechanism in the Republic of Serbia has been completely exhausting. In order to stimulate the future generation to remain in the country and to mitigate unfavourable calculations of the price of agricultural products, it is necessary for the state to assist farmers by buying four thousand tractors and basic connection machines of three billion dinars. The action would be called a tractor for every village. I must remind you that a thousand villages have disappeared from our country's carelessness towards the development of the village and the village population. The planned amount of subsidies to public non-financial enterprises of 22,545,875,209 dinars is incompletely explained in the budget and since only 100 million dinars are allocated at the start, we believe that this action is necessary and has budgetary space to implement. In this way, the government of the Republic of Serbia would show that it rightly takes care of agriculture as the most important resource. Otherwise, this government and the state have completely neglected the development of agriculture and individual agricultural producers. The cost of production in almost all segments of agriculture is higher than their final product, which is unacceptable. I come from the Rasin County, from the municipality of Bruce, from the mainly fruit-wine-grading area, where the price of plums in purchase this year was six dinars per kilogram, the price of grapes from 15 to 20, the price of 12 dinars, and in livestock is even worse and the black situation. At one time, 70 percent of the population in Rasinski and Toplički County were involved in this production, and now it is down to below 5% of the total agricultural population. And as it would be, when the purchase price of milk is 20 dinars, twice as much as one liter of water. I think it's really embarrassing and humiliating, to make a liter of milk twice as cheap as a liter of water. Really embarrassing and embarrassing. These prices are humiliating and devastating. With such prices, the farmer cannot survive, nor can 50% of the direct costs in his production cover, and here I mean the price of mineral fertilisers, the price of fuel, the price of protection and chemical resources, the cost of agrotechnical measures that are very expensive. Where's the labor force? Where's the work of the peasants working from morning till tomorrow? So he's not anywhere. He's at a loss of 100%. That's why our situation is mostly in central Serbia, Southeast, southwest, may be a little better in Vojvodina, but roses don't bloom there either. Because of the concern of this government and the state towards the village and the peasant village are becoming more empty and poorer, young people do not want to deal with agricultural production, so they are moving to urban areas, and those who remain in the village, instead of farming, are doing other jobs. That's why we have unprocessed agricultural areas, which is why we have a lot of parologists. On the contrary, the import lobby does its job, imports everything and everything from agricultural products. For example, importers import onions and carrots from China, apples from Spain, animal meat of dubious quality from the Netherlands; we still need to import mad cows from England and Ireland, so we can shut down and destroy the village and peasants. Therefore, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Trade to take into account, to take care of our agricultural producers, to stimulate them, to provide them with financial resources through various subsidies, regressions, premiums in the production of different agricultural products. I propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Trade that they ban imports of all agricultural products and processed products that can be produced in the country of birth to Serbia. This will best protect our peasant and allow him to place what he produces on his estates on the domestic market and to export surpluses to third countries. Then, for each hectare of farmland treated to registered agricultural producers or households, it is paid from 150 to 200 euros in flat areas, and in mountain-mounted areas from 300 to 400 euros per hectare due to difficult and harsher living conditions. All Western European countries are doing so, and we are seeking to join the EU. We strive with Kosovo and Metohija, and someone tends without Kosovo and Metohija in the European Union. Then, the health and social protection of peasants must be free of charge. I suggest that these debts of farmers and peasants to the social and pension funds be written off, because they really don't have where to pay for it. Peasants' pensions, which are at least 7,200 at present, are really miserable and humiliating, must be increased and equalized at least with workers' pensions, although these workers' pensions are not large, but I suggest they increase about 5,000 dinars, that the average of the smallest pensions be at least 16,000 dinars or 200 euros and that the gap be reduced between the lowest and highest pensions. We have at least 7,200 pensions, with a maximum of 105,000. It's 1:15, there's not a single country in the world, I mean, in our environment there's certainly no one. This gap must be reduced and it must be 1:5, 1:7, so it is in all Western European countries. I'd like this government, the social one, as they called it, to be a parole of the SPS, to keep these promises. If they do this in the next period, if there is room in this budget, and if not, to wake up in 2009, then they will be remembered as a socially responsible government. If this isn't done, she'll be remembered as a fraud and a socially irresponsible government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6452	Thank you. According to the amendment, Mrs. Aleksandar Jankovic answered the word. The parliamentary group's time is five minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6453	And even if I were not a party colleague of Mr. Jelic, I would have to accept his amendment and explanation, because it is warning for the government, which is more than autistic compared to all its citizens, and especially farmers. Everything Mr. Jelic said moved me to think about the quality of this socially responsible government. When a man knowingly and deliberately lies, assuming that he is psychologically healthy, he can be called: (a) a liar, (b) a marketing magma, (v) a politician of power, (g) a manipulant. It is possible that all these characteristics from a) to g are combined in one person. I therefore ask for information on the case of Minister of Science and Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. That he laughs like crazy at flour when he makes a lapus lingu, so he talks about a hundred years instead of a hundred days of government, he can be a sign of eccentric personal style. But when he claims that Serbia will not be affected by the global economic crisis, which will even be stimulating, he is subject to the (a), (b), (v) and (g). In one word, the manipulative lie of a protagonist who takes politics as marketing, and the citizens as protagonists in the marketing virtual reality. Similar is the case of the second vice president of Mladjan Dinkic, and the minister of economy, who went one step further, and is talking about the stimulating effects of the global economic crisis that will lead to economic growth of 15% annually. The only possible justification for him is that a large amount of skiing and dilute mountain air has been overrun and entered into some specific dusk zone. On the condition that God and the Young have spoken such notorious lies in an unaltered state of consciousness, without previous memory and wild gigs in a band whose bearers are still short of only Canak, the question arises whether they will suffer the consequences of such manipulation and public fraud? Will the world crisis’s stimulating effects, the younger one, pay off the promised amount of action? Will God take the citizens of Serbia to the border to travel with white Schengen visas where they will this New Year's Eve? Or are they the best continuations of the character and the work of Branko Kostic, who in time said that sanctions for Serbia will be stimulating because we can also eat roots? Is this the way of Serbia to Europe? That Serbian citizens are frozen because they can't pay for the gas that has been advertised in earlier media campaigns as the best environmentalally-paying energy? That they don't have normal pensions, but that they're still waiting for Santa Claus from the Krkobic family to provide them with some church girl by 2010. That they have no visas, no money to pay for them, let alone travel? All of this still needs to be isolated from their loved ones, scattered in the nearby and further environment, so they won't even be able to answer them by phone. Phone subscription increased by 196%. It's like from a joke where a doctor tells a patient -- I have good news and bad news for you, so a man says -- which is bad, and he says -- it's bad that you're going to live another six months, and this one says -- well, doctor, which is good; well, it's good that I won poker tonight. It's such good news that in the boards of directors people have surreally high wages, and that at least two brilliant and well-versed advisors come to each minister. When will the people be included in the category – a counselor? Today, flag workers decide on their own work fate by subjecting themselves to the social programme. I recall, under the contract, it is an obligation not to "Fiyat", but to the joint venture to employ 2,433 workers by 2012, but not necessarily from the current number of 3,800 employees. How many more people will be fooled? If you analyze the EPP a little bit on a variety of televisions, you will find out that the advert for banks has taken the primate even over Orbit gums, with or without wings. The rationalization is that this is because of "weeks of savings", and it is actually about the fear of the banks that citizens will withdraw their roles, because unlike the government that is acting autistic relative to the global economic crisis, citizens are seriously considering its possible consequences, and they are reasonably suspicious, because here hope can no longer triumph over experience. The largest interest on foreign deposits -- 11% offers "Metals Bank", in which temporary measures were imposed last week. It is therefore not only my recommendation, but also a serious warning from citizens who are coming to us that the government is thinking and that, at least on the basis of the adoption of amendments by opposition MPs, such as Mr Milutin Jelic and others, it is not entirely untouchable for the voice of reason and of its own people. If no proposal is adopted to form a task force to monitor the effects of the global economic crisis, we can pass as Iceland. In fact, the Icelandic crown keeps falling, the banking sector is crippled, and the Icelandics are losing their jobs very quickly. There is a difference: Serbs, despite the person's promise as president of Serbia, will open 200,000 new jobs, and have no jobs. The Icelanders lose and save and jobs... (Chairman: Please, you've been over 15 seconds.) ) The government fears that there are those who are losing their minds and their senses, so the Icelandic health ministry has established a health center for emergency mental health in the centre of Reykjavik to help citizens desperate for economic implosion. (President: Please speak half a minute longer.) Please finish. Here, another 20 seconds. With us, the "five-government" health minister could establish such a health center for the emergency mental state of non-criticalness and euphoricity of individual ministers, headed by him. There's another similarity between us and Iceland. They're based on folk cuisine.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6454	The whole minute's up. Thank you. Mr. Milorad Krstin answered his word. I apologize, Mr. Krstin, Mr. Markicevic has come by his office.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6455	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, in order not to make it seem like we're just talking for nothing here, I refer to the members of 225th and 226, and I need very much the information that matters to my work, as a folk MP. I wanted to ask the Minister of Trade Milosavljevic, I had some obligations so I wasn't in the Assembly at the moment, so since you are here today as a representative of the Government, you should go out here right now and explain to the Serbian citizens why the phone subscription cost 200 per cent. Let me tell you who you punished. You have not punished ministers, nor ministerial assistants, nor state secretaries, nor businessmen, nor MPs who have solid salaries, you have punished the poor poor poor. There are over two million of them who have phone connections. They've had a subscription of 88 dinars so far; Grandma's invited a granddaughter who's in college to see her study and take great care of those impulses, or on time; her son's mother in the army, the poor, you punished them. You haven't punished us who have good wages, let's not lie, including you. Why did you do that, if Telecom is the seventh firm per profit -- how much did I read, over 160 million euros? And since January 1st, we've been expecting phone impulses. So, you have a chance to deny me, I asked you culturally, nicely, to go out for a pay phone right now and explain it. After that, I will comment, if necessary, on your explanation. So, once again, I would like to ask you, as a representative of the citizens, to step out for this pay phone right now and explain why prices are wild. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6456	Thank you. I remind the MPs that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia is on the agenda and I give my word to Mr Milorad Krstin. I gave my word to the People's Messenger, Milorad Kristin, and according to the Rules of Procedure, you will be given the word immediately after the end of the speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm glad you're here today with MPs who would like to ask you a question, and you're going to give a few answers, and they're going to tell you something. I came out several times on behalf of my amendment and amendments to my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary club, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and I pointed out that along with these powerful mafias, an agrarian mafia appeared or, rather, for the sake of citizens, an agricultural-terrestrial mafia. Namely, it's about renting agricultural land. According to the Agricultural Land Act, which we passed in 2006, each municipality does with the Commission one elaborate on the lease of agricultural land, there is a bidding, there are contracts between the licenstors and the municipal commission; but there are conditions, when a man buys something, it's about the state land in lease, he has to pay for it. However, I started it with my municipality of Zrenjanin. Normally, based on the availability of information of public importance, I sent a memo, so I got 15 days delayed, that they were unable to answer me, and then that within 40 days I would get an answer; I got, I have to be honest, 40 days ago, 2015 pages, where the licators are and where the municipal commission that sold that country is. Unfortunately, I didn't get the information as much as the ones who paid, so I asked the question again, so on October 27, they told me they weren't able to answer me within 15 days and they'd do it in the next 40 days. I'm waiting for that, and then with those papers that I had to pay three dinars, so the 2015 page... They probably thought it would scare me so I wouldn't pay; I did it. I can tell you, Minister, that this material is in my possession, waiting to see who they paid for, we'll thank them, but you and the minister who sat here yesterday, because there's a mechanism, as a finance minister, to run an inspection service by the districts, that, besides that construction mafia, which you've produced thanks to the conflict between Pajtic and Goran Knezevic, and there it's on the commission and Nikola Halas, who's also arrested, which would say our brothers from the West... Mr. Minister, I've analyzed every contract a little bit, and it's interesting that the contract on the left is signed by a licensee, on the right hand side is signed by a commission -- on the left hand side it has a name and a last name, but there's not a single member of the commission, and that man is working the country. Or vice versa: we have three members signed, the president never signed, there was Nikola Halas, vice president of the state land sales commission, and there's no licensetate on the left, and he's doing the country. I nicely call the local community, ask if it works, say it works; whether it pays, doesn't pay, well, nice, works man. All that wouldn't be terrible if... Even counterpart Zivkov said Mr. Nicovic took 11,000 hectares of PIK Becej, old Vienna two years ago. It is that he gave the rooms to Tomislav Nikolic, and for two years he used 11,000 acres and nothing. Eleven thousand acres, if you don't know what a hectare is, I'll draw it for you. Therefore, ministers, this issue must be addressed by the first municipality, because 30% of these couples go to the municipality; the province, because it goes to them from the sale of agricultural land, in fact, from the lease of state land; and, to the Republic of Serbia. Now you see how many thousands of acres... I'm waiting, like I said, to get me information on who paid for it. In one of the stands that I held with the leaders of the province of Vojvodina, where the hall was full, I heard from a man who was in charge that only one of them had paid for the land. It's about the municipality of Zitiste in the Central Banat County. Therefore, you as the minister who should take care of it, press Dacic as well... When there was a law here two weeks ago on the protection of the state border, where there was a reference to what should be planted along that border belt, I said and then he said to deliver it to him and to see it. It's not a small story and a story about the Zrenjanin municipality. It is about issuing state land across Serbia. Huge amounts of money from the Ministry of Finance, the government and this country lose this boastful behavior of responsible people who represent power, i.e. a state in the form of the power of the land lease commission. Here, I'm just trying to point out how serious this is, but I'm afraid it's not just a halabuca, and then it's back together again. Mr. Minister, as long as I remain in this House, I will point to this. You will have complete this evidence; it will cost me, but you and the finance minister will have it, as well as Minister Jocic. Let me just go back to the agriculture analysis in Serbia for the year you made it. I can tell you that you did a pretty good analysis. You said that there are 4,800 - 5,000 villages in Serbia, according to some yet unconfirmed analyses, that if the village development were to be divided, now that I'm not looking here in your report, there are 450 million, it can only be given for ten villages, that in the next ten years thousands of villages will disappear if this is what you've been thinking about in the last eight years. Vesenov told the story that we shouldn't be dealing with wheat because we don't need it, we need vines, we need apples, pears, peaches, pots, plums and all that. Well, good for him, you can't convince the 65-year-old now to do the other thing. If we know that since 2004, 2005, in 2006, the minister was Ivana Dulic-Markovic, the biggest advocate of importing modified soybeans, when they had to fall and destroy from the Mačvan County... I'm sorry, he was Minister here, now Minister of Trade, then Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Milosavljevic, I just want to ask him something. Based on this analysis that you've done, it says -- the balance of some basic agricultural food products for the 2007/2008 economic year, so I'll only take corn because it's three times less price than it was last year, I mean, of course in 2008, you've made economic indicators: initial stocks - 1,300,000 tonnes, production - 3,917,358 tonnes, available -- 5,217,358 tonnes, losses -- about 90,000 tonnes, supplies and reserves -- 5,527,358 tonnes, and exports -- just one line. This power that was ten months old, I must admit, headed by Minister Milosavljevic, has led to the farmer now selling corn for a bogeyman, and it won't sell because what he did in the clip is going to lie well and serve him as fuel. I don't want to sell those couple of my wagons that I have in my silo for 680 dinars of 100 kilos or 6.8 dinars, if last year that same corn was, the same breed that year, 1,800 dinars, 100 kilos. It's just another indicator, especially with regard to the price of final products this year, in 2008, repromation, for which you said it was 40%, and it cost 80%, specifically the most fertilizer and seed. What you said would be paid for an unfulfilled 30,000 dinars a ton, is now already in sales of 40,000 dinars per tonne. You can try to stop it, it's the middleman who decides it's taken over the stock market, but I'm telling you responsible that I've been offered by several of them that same fertilizer, "Fertilovo", at 40,000, instead of 29,000. Minister, our village is failing. You have to do something, along with the government. You're not directly responsible for the fact that from August of last year to March of the month there was no export of corn, but you were in the government, there had to be exports. Thanks to the prevention of wheat exports, the creation of huge supplies has taken place, and now we have these problems that I've brought out. In addition to the agrarian or agricultural-terrestrial mafia, we have a problem with people who intercede in the fertilizer trade; we have a problem with the relatively high cost of repromaterials, I mean the seeds. Oil was now expensive, with a ten-day delay, and it was supposed to be that price (you say you weren't in charge, but you could say it was done in time), that the price of oil went away as it was in the US and other friends of DS; they dropped the prices, and we only dropped when the wheat was finished and the oranium was sown, where the corn was removed. So a few mistakes were made. You have a chance, we'll see if you can take that chance, but be assured that what you don't do for the benefit of a troubled farmer, peasants, couples, individual agricultural land and registered agricultural land... And don't think you'll just create a professional peasant. A professional farmer of 65, 68, 75, 83 can't be. A professional peasant can be, say, 20 years old and so forth, but people of 80 who make up the population of the village, almost 60%, won't be able to be professional peasants. We will do our best from the SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, not those who hold the Committee on Agriculture. He presides, and he wasn't in the election; he has no idea, no matter what he's done in college, he has no idea about agriculture. Agriculture isn't just a wind farm, agriculture is a warfare, livestock, vineyarding and fruit growing, not to add up everything. But no one can chair the Agriculture Committee when it belongs to the main opposition party, which is the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6458	Thank you. Based on Article 85, I'm setting a break by 3:00. After the break, the first will be Mr Miroslav Markicevic, the speaker who advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work and discuss amendments. Is anyone else answering for a word based on the previous amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 14, 15 and 54 of the amendments were submitted by MP Arsen Đuric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Miroslav Markicevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6460	Dear Vice-Presidents, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, since you did not chair in the morning part of the session, I must inform you that I have called on Article 226 and, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I must quote it: "The MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly", I also interpret from the chairman, "the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues from the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities at which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. "I asked the present minister as a representative of the government, I need that notice in answer to a question I will unfortunately have to repeat, and that is why 200% is the increased price of telephone subscription? Unlike you, Mrs. Komic, who are always tolerant and kind, Mr. Novakovic ignored me and said it was not on the agenda. Since you convinced me in a pre-election campaign that life cannot wait, I asked that the minister representing the government immediately plead and offer a rational explanation for why the phone subscription was raised by 200%. Given the assurances of the officials of the Serbian state, namely the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Governor who says inflation is one-digit, that the global economic crisis has not yet reached our country, moreover, that we may be better off when the echoes of this crisis are in our country, I have asked for an explanation because I need it to serve as a MP. I believe that other colleagues, regardless of whether MPs are opposition or positions, ask citizens (in particular during this weekend they asked me) why 200% of the phone subscription was increased. There's no rational explanation. If we consider that it is a public enterprise that does this so-called. telephone services are one of the best companies in Serbia, it seems to me that on some list is the seventh, and last year it had a profit of 160m euros, so why is the increase in phone subscription 200%? Mr. Novakovic, who was in your position, completely ignored me and I'm not angry about it, it's a matter of his treating fellow MPs. I didn't ask for me. To be fair, I can pay that phone subscription, and bigger, like all those who have salaries, as do MPs, state officials and benevolent people. I asked for citizens of Serbia who can't pay for it, because, practically, two million phone owners have been punished. I don't know why and that's why I asked for an explanation from the present minister. I now see that none of the competent ministers representing the Government of the Republic of Serbia are present, and I expect from you, Mrs Comic, the most minimal, courteous - we will forward this question to the Government and we will ask you to answer that question. I really expect it from you, because I heard from Vice President Novakovic what you've all heard - that it's not on the agenda. I repeat, life cannot wait. That's what's on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6461	I ask that we forward the stenogram of Parliamentarian Miroslav Markevic to the Secretary-General of the Government, given that the decision has already been made, in which various bodies and organisations are involved, in order to provide an explanation to the MP on the basis of which the decision was taken to collect the impulses, as soon as possible. Before we move on to the debate, one notice to the National Assembly on confirming the mandate of the National MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly, in order to allow his participation in the work. You have been presented with the RIK's report on the allocation of the mandate to the MP. You were also presented with a report by the Administrative Board which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate had been met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament finds confirmation of the mandate to the MP. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission, the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Momcilo Spasic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I invite him to enter the O.R. and take part in the work. Anyone else want a word in the detail debate? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6462	On behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, and I will read the text of the amendment: "In article 5, section 54 - The Office for Joint Affairs of Republic Authorities, function 130, economic classification of 511 - buildings and construction facilities, the amount of 1,836,060,000 is changed by 1,036,060,000. In the same article divided by 15 - Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the economic classification of 551 - non-financial assets financed from NIP realisation funds, amounting to 550,000 is changed by an amount of 850,000. In the same Article 5 division 14 - Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, function 420, economic classification 621 - purchase of domestic financial assets and funds for agricultural loans, the amount of 650,000 is changed by 1.150,000". So the reduction was proposed by the Joint Affairs Authority, from the position of the building and construction facilities. That's not a cut from the budget. In fact, the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia planned the exact amount of funds I had planned for the amendment, in order for the budget to rebalance the figure to increase in the position of 770 million. The explanation that we received from the Government, which does not accept this amendment, says that it would endanger the execution of expenditure by already undertaken commitments. I really don't know what obligations the Joint Affairs Administration could have made, whether it could have acted beyond the funds provided for in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, I only returned that amount that was planned for the 2008 budget, and this reduction was allocated to NIP funds, for the reason that many local self-government in Serbia competed for certain NIP projects. Part of these projects have already been launched, their realisation is under way and the reduction of these funds from a billion to 550 million could be questioned by the realization of a number of these projects. These are mainly infrastructure projects, meaning investments in road infrastructure, electricity network, plumbing, sewerage in local self-government. I think this is important because by solving these infrastructure problems in certain local self-governments, it creates a positive environment for attracting domestic and foreign investors, and especially because, I say, many of these projects have already started and their realisation can be questioned by this proposed budget rebalance reduction compared to the 2008 budget. Also, in this article, I suggested that agricultural lending funds increase from 650,000 to 1.150,000. According to the 2008 budget, these funds were planned at three billion, in order to reduce the budget rebalance to 650,000. I don't think that's a good solution. I want to commend that in this budget rebalancing, the amount of funding for subsidies in agriculture has been increased. However, in a response to the government which does not accept the amendment, it is said that the funds are planned in line with the interest expressed by farmers in those loans. It's just not true. The interest of farmers exists, however, is in banks. The Serbian government has changed the way these funds were placed in agriculture by its regulation. Earlier, the funds went from the Republic of Serbia's budget to business banks, and this year the government changed the regulation and these funds were used as subsidies, i.e. to cover interest costs to business banks, and banks place funds to farmers. This turned out to be a bad solution, because banks are not interested in placing those funds. So there's an interest in farmers. These funds relate to the improvement of production, the purchase of equipment, the machinery, the irrigation system, the multi-annual plantation, the greenhouses, the plastics. I think it is very important to raise the amount of these funds from 650,000 to 1,150,000 and to change this government regulation, meaning that these funds go, as they did in previous years, directly from the budget, through business banks, to be placed on agricultural producers. This is also very important at the moment of the global economic crisis, when interest in banks will be significantly higher than before, and even after a unilateral application of the trade agreement, the market will open, agricultural products from EU countries will appear. Our farmers are unable to monitor that competition, i.e. they are not competitive on the market, and I think this is a good way to get through the favourable agricultural loans that the state will give to advance its production and become competitive on the market. I think this amendment is very real and I invite you to vote for it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6463	The People's MP Dragan Šormaz has the word, and then the People's Messenger Aleksandar Pejcic. The time available for the DSS parliamentary group is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment by my colleague Arsen Đuric is a real test for the government. No minister, I guess he'll be passed on to him. They must have read it in the government when they decided on the amendments. It's just an explanation that, in fact, the true nature of this government, and when it comes to this amendment, we have a good example of how this government behaves. In fact, we had a budget planned, a budget adopted, and the Joint Affairs Administration suddenly has pre-arranged commitments for nearly 800 million dinars more than it predicted. How is that possible? In order for Serbian citizens to know what it is, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Joint Affairs is, that is, what is called, in one word, bureaucracy. They're officers. It's not true -- "when it was Dejan," we can easily check it out, and if so, it was the government where you had most of it, so you didn't react. You can smile all you want. What's done is done. Remember one thing, you're government, you're responsible, get used to it. It's over with being an opposition. You are power and you are responsible. Bureaucracies. It seems that bureaucracy in the government of the Republic of Serbia is in charge of nearly 800,000 dinars more than the budget has allowed. It is the right European behaviour at a time when we are talking about reducing public consumption, one truly real pro-European behaviour shown by this government. Only those MPs who are not for pro-European Serbia, who are not for European standards in Serbia, will not vote for the amendment. What the government is showing is unserious, we know that, but let's see how the MPs are. Is it more important to spend 800,000 dinars than was intended for government bureaucracy or to invest that money in agriculture? Of all the business branches in Serbia, the most important development is agriculture. This business branch is our biggest exporter and has the highest capacity. Is it more important to spend on papers, cars, secretariats, phone bills, etc. Or is it more important to invest money in agriculture? This is a real test for everyone. We'll see how everyone behaves when it comes to this amendment and how much responsibility it will show in the voting day. I am convinced that the parliamentary majority will not vote on the amendment, but then you have no right, after that vote, to discuss European integration, the pro-European government, the accelerated reforms, the accelerated EU accession. It's just that this solution is not pro-European. That is why I call once again on all MPs to think carefully and to support the amendment of MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6465	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. The time available for the DSS parliamentary group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6466	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really sorry that we don't have a government representative here to address him, but what is it, there he is. I came out here to support my party colleague Mr. Arsen Djuric's amendment, and I think the amendment is extremely meaningful and comprehensive. Namely, Mr Arsen Đuric comes from one agricultural area, a tourist area and is fully familiar with the problems of farmers. My smallness also comes from the agricultural area. Namely, I come from the poorest county, from Jablani County, from the town of Leskovci, once known for industry, for textiles. But now we're turning to agriculture. These famous agricultural loans were announced euphorically at the time of Mrs Ivana Dulic. In that period, we first started registering agricultural producers in southern Serbia. They regularly made projects and used these funds from these mechanization loans for new crops. However, the government proves that it does not care at all about agriculture in southern Serbia. Since it's ours, so far, the only basic branch, since it's a complete industry, I mean the textiles and the rest, destroyed, we turned to agriculture. For this reason, I think the government should accept this amendment to encourage the development of agriculture in southern Serbia. I'll remind you that we have about a million cherry trees in Jablani County, about 500,000 pear trees, apples, plums. We're the biggest tomato producers, we're famous for the pepper. In that sense, we wanted to encourage this economic branch in Jablani County. The second thing I came out of it is that there is less resources for the NIP in this budget rebalance than there have been in previous years. For us in southern Serbia, that's murderous. If I tell you that a little black grass has a budget of 20 million, the bear is between 40 and 50, Lebanese about 200 million, then you understand that we of these projects from the NIP and how we live. That's how we drink clean water, we do road infrastructure, that's how we make one more quality environment for citizens to stay down. If I tell you, too, that every year some 2,200 people move out of southern Serbia, and one Black Trava has 2,400 inhabitants, then it's like losing one Black Grass every year, one municipality; it's undeveloped, but we're losing. Otherwise, this population migration is heading towards Belgrade, towards Nis, beyond Serbia's borders. For these reasons, I ask you to support this amendment because it will do a lot for southern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6467	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6468	I support part of the DSS's amendments, and especially part of the amendments relating to division 14, which envisions an increase in funds allocated from the agricultural credit budget. I have a proposal to find those funds in the budget. I propose that the funds be allocated from the budget item provided for by the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. The budget rebalance provides for 94,267,000 dinars to be allocated to the prosecution's funding, which is around 110,000 euros. I think it's exaggerating, that the D.A.'s work so far has in no way earned the allocation of this kind of funds. The war crimes prosecutor's office in Belgrade is doing the same thing as the war crimes prosecutors in Slovenia, Zagreb, Sarajevo and Pristina are doing, so they are pressing charges against Serbs for the real and imaginary crimes committed by members of the Serb people. At the same time, it does not prosecute war crimes committed against the Serb people. Now I'm going to do a short cross-section of the prosecution's effects in the former Yugoslav republics. You know that in 1991, in Slovenia, the attack of territorial defence units and local police units began work on the former SFRY area and that act practically committed a crime against peace. It's the most serious crime known to international law, much more severe even than genocide. In a short-term war in Slovenia, Slovenian paramilitary formations killed 50 young soldiers, mostly recruits from Serbia. After the end of the war, the prosecutor's office in Slovenia has not filed a single indictment of crimes committed against members of the JNA, but has therefore filed several dozen charges against soldiers and JNA officers who, as a result, cannot leave Serbia's territory today, because some of them are on Interpol's indictment. The same practice was applied in the event of a war in Croatia. You know that Franjo Tudjman said on April 10th 1992 that Croatia was consciously choosing war, because she estimated that war would make it easier to fight its independence. In that war, the largest ethnic cleansing of one nation in Europe was carried out after World War II. A total of over half a million Serbs were expelled: 200,000 were expelled from the occupied Republika Srpska Krajina, and 300,000 were expelled from Zagreb and other cities, meaning, from the territory of Croatia where there were no acts of war. During the war, which Franjo Tudjman deliberately caused, Croatian military and paramilitary units killed over 7,000 Serbs and made 15,000 wounded. Also, Serbian assets, whose value is estimated at around 30 billion euros, have been destroyed and kidnapped. In these acts of war, terrible mass war crimes have been committed. I'll just mention a few. During Operation Flash and the occupation of Western Slavonia, a total of two days killed two hundred and eighty-three Serbs. Operation Storm killed 1,600 Serbs, mostly civilians who did not, due to years of age, consider there to be any reason why they should leave their homes and their hearths. I will remind myself of some crimes: the murder of 150 Serb civilians in Gospić in just one night; the murder of several hundred Serb civilians, mostly civilians who were brought here from Zagreb and killed, these killings were committed in Marina Selo and in the Pakrac plain; then, the massacre of 40 Serb territorialists trapped on the Miljevac plateau, etc. For the sake of insight into the monstrosity of these crimes, I will only cite an example of the beating of Serb wounded with tanks, tank caterpillars in Western Slavonia on May 1st 1995. And, one case that took place in western Slavonia, I will not mention the name - the Serb returnee to a Slavonian village is buried alive in the country to the throat by his neighbours and left to die. The Croatian Prosecutor's Office has filed a total of 20 indictments for all these crimes. At the same time, the Croatian Prosecutor's Office, the one in Zagreb, and the county prosecutors have raised, not to believe, 70,000 charges against Serbs in Croatia. Practically, all Serbs in Croatia who were aged in 1991 and lived in the Republika Srpska region are on charges. When you apply simple mathematics, you come up with information that every 4,000 charges filed against Serbs have been brought against Croats. The same mathematics was applied by prosecutors in BiH. True, a little disproportionate. In BiH on 19 counts of war crimes against Serbs, members of Serb military and police formations, you have one indictment brought against Muslims or Croats for crimes against Serbs. More than 28,000 Serbs were killed during the war in BiH, and 50,000 were wounded. Ethnically, large areas of BiH have been cleared. For example, the number of Serbs in the Federation of BiH is below 3%. In the Federation of BiH, you have 527 villages, ethnically pure Serbian villages, some of which had 3,000 inhabitants, in which there are no living souls today. From individual crimes I will mention, by locations, only mass crimes committed on Kupres, on Ozren, in Srebrenica, Bratunac, etc. I was already saying that over 5,000 Serb civilians were killed in Sarajevo alone. To illustrate what kind of monstrosity this is, I'm just going to give you a few examples. There are two cases that complete settlements, complete families, from the children in the cradle to the old ones who were 80 years old, were all thrown into the houses and burned alive. We have a case in the Galecic camp near Duvna: according to the testimony of surviving campers, after the massacre Serbian campers were stripped naked, and then Croatian guards, their military officers, tied them to the trees around the camp and left them to die. One of the witnesses from Bihaq claims that two people ate vultures alive. Another case, which took place in the Sarajevo area: captured Serb soldiers literally crucified to the wall and then released bloodhounds on them. For all of this you have this proportion when it comes to the BiH prosecution: I do not know the exact number, it seems to me that it is a total of 40 charges brought against Serbs and several hundred indictments brought against members of the Serb people, members of the Serb military and police. You have the same practice in Kosovo and Metohija. The Cypriot terrorists also caused war there, also committed a crime against peace, killed over 3,000 Serb civilians, soldiers and police officers who had been kidnapped before, for 600 are still wanted. They expelled between 250,000 and 300,000 Serbs from Kosovo, destroyed 150 Serbian churches and monasteries, destroyed, robbed and burned over 50,000 Serbian-owned houses and practically took all Serbian property. Prosecutors in Kosovo, who work under jurisdiction, under UNMIK's supervision, are pressing charges exclusively against members of the Serb people. And in the end, I end up with a case of The Hague prosecutor's office. I remind you that the NATO Pact, in violation of the UN Charter and international law, without any legal basis in 1999, committed aggression in Yugoslavia. More than 3,000 people were killed in the bombing, injured over 10,000 people, caused material damage estimated between $50 billion and $100 billion, depending on the source. I remind you that at the time of the bombing, the TV building, where it was killed, seems to me, 19 or 20 journalists. Civilians were killed on a train in the Grdeliska ravine; several buses were rocketed to return Serb civilians to Kosovo; that column of unfortunate refugees was hit, mostly Albanians, Kosovo and Metohija; Milica Rakic was killed while in the bathroom here in Batajnica; civilians were killed in Varvarin, Nis, Paracino, etc. No indictments have been filed for all these crimes by the UN tribunal. In fact, an indictment has been filed against Ramush Haradinaj, but he was eventually released from any responsibility, although it has been proven to have had direct participation in the liquidation of several hundred Serb civilians. But that's why The Hague prosecutors have filed charges against all political leaders of the Serb people in Serbia, against all police and military commanders. It has even filed charges against Vojislav Seselj, the president of the SRS, over a verbal delinquent. Why did I say all this? To make a comparison with the practice that exists in the work of the war crimes prosecutor in Belgrade. The war crimes prosecutor's office in Belgrade is doing the same thing that these numerous prosecutors are doing -- almost exclusively, in 90% of cases, investigating crimes committed by Serb peoples over other peoples. This prosecution should work impartially, do its job professionally, not cheer for either side. The only thing this D.A. has the right to do is, let's put it that way, rank the crimes, make it a crime priority. In this sense, it could be expected, given that it is the Serbian prosecution, that the priority is to have the crimes committed against the Serb people, rather than the fact that the most crimes in the war that took place in the space of the SFRY were committed precisely against the Serb people, as well as the fact that these other prosecutors are processing only the crimes committed by Serbs. So, for these reasons, it could possibly be expected, if this prosecution in Belgrade is a little biased, to still be biased in favour of Serbs, in favour of the Serbian side. But that's not the case. Instead of dealing with crimes committed in Serbia, over the Serb people, the prosecution in Belgrade is mainly processing and investigating crimes committed against other peoples, not in Serbia, but in Croatia and BiH. You have one completely abnormal situation – that the prosecution of an internationally recognised state, such as Serbia, is not involved in investigating crimes committed in Serbia's territory, or is dealing with little, but is mainly dealing with crimes committed on the territory of another country and crimes committed not by members of the Serbian people from Serbia, Serbian citizens, but by crimes committed by Croatian and BiH citizens. One completely abnormal situation. I even believe, under some other circumstances, that some other countries are concerned, that this could be undermined by interference in other countries' internal affairs. When the war crimes prosecutor's office in BiH, Croatia or Kosovo does what it does, it can be understood in some ways. They were hostile to the Serb people in the war and, in any case, cheer for their side, seek to blame all the war crimes, the outbreak of war and all the evils that have happened on the Serbian side. However, when people on the side see it, the international professional public, they likely come to the conclusion that the prosecution's procedures and their way of working are biased. People are probably counting on it this way: they fought against Serbs and are now trying in every way to transfer all crimes to the Serbian side. There's some suspicion that they might be biased. However, what if the international professional and layman's public said when the Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade is doing the same way? How can you explain to someone abroad that Vladimir Vukcevic and Bruno Vekaric with exceptional passion, with cheerleading passion, prosecute only the crimes committed by members of the Serb people; that Vladimir Vukcevic, in the war prosecutor's office in Belgrade, seeks to prove that Serbs are responsible for most of the crimes that took place in the former Yugoslavia. How do you explain to them, say, that when Vladimir Vukcevic speaks of crimes committed by Serbs, when he talks about the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, about the arrest of Ratko Mladic, Goran Hadzic, he says it with passion, his eyes shining, man cannot be controlled. For these reasons, I believe that 94,267,000 dinars, meaning the minimum of 110,000 euros, as foreseen for funding the work of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, is inappropriate and that this should be reduced to some significantly more comprehensible figure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6469	Before we move on to the next amendment, I am notifying that today, and on the basis of Article 85(5), we will be working after 18 hours. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6470	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted first to ask the Madam Chairman where the Government's representatives are. Because I would really like to explain that this amendment submitted by my colleague Arsen Đuric, the most reasoned argument we have received from the government, speaks in favour of everything we have said these days. So this government is extremely wasteful. You see, it explains that they've already spent the funds and now we have to rebalance the budget to increase them. And for days we've been listening to what the IMF, whose representatives have come to this country for the second or third time in the last month, has been saying -- you can't waste all your time on public spending, when it comes to your apparatus, you can't raise your pensions, and at the same time you plan to build roads, invest in infrastructure. So here we see from the explanation... I only have to read the first position, which is very interesting, says: "Amendment is proposed to cut funds for buildings and construction facilities in the department of the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Office, which would endanger the execution of expenditure by already undertaken commitments, including the completion of a building in Germany intended for judicial authorities. "This argument, Malten, was for every amendment -- that they needed money for a building in Germany. We said, OK, they need money for a building in Germany, but you can't act like one. I know that Madam Minister, before she came here to defend this budget rebalance, she had a lot of objections. Today we also heard from the governor of the National Bank that all this is what we see in this rebalancing is the opposite of what we have to do. He expressed his desire to make an arrangement with the IMF and that when it comes to the budget (which should soon come to us, past all legal deadlines, or after the calendar by the budget system, I must again underline, which the government is late to meet) there is an urgency that this budget for 2009 is kind of being fixed, i.e. to tighten the belt. I have to agree with Mr. Jelasic, today he said one thing we've been talking about for a long time, but he's also talking about this thing, that he just has to come in the day when you're going to say - he can't anymore, we're not going to bend before blackmail, we're not going to make promises that we can't keep, and, worst of all, we're trying to keep them, and we're doing even more damage. It is obvious that this budget rebalance will pass, that it will pass with two or three amendments, which you will accept, which will not significantly affect the very amount of this rebalancing. Of course, it will pass because the ruling majority will provide a sufficient number of MPs. But it really expects us for a month-and-a-half of the 2009 budget talks. We invite you to try every possible way to avoid such arguments. If there are reasonable reasons, if you say pensions have to go 10%, give an explanation that's OK, we accept it. If you say the gas has to go 60%, give a meaningful explanation, show it's inevitable, and the citizens will realize it's inevitable. If you're saying that impulses have to go 300 percent, subscription 100 percent, after the New Year's, there's a power collection going on, then we expect at least a meaningful explanation, that it's not like when it comes to Telecom -- we're raising prices to attract competition that's going to lower prices afterwards. It's the stupidest thing that's said as an explanation for some hoarding. So it's a direct attack on citizens' intelligence. Please, I suppose you have some influence on writing those arguments, too, so let those who write them be really reasonable. They cannot refuse some amendments because they do not comply with the Budgetary System Act, and the same government violates the Budgetary System Act. Then the justification we heard today from Jelasic -- that we better get a good 2009 budget, so let's break the legal deadlines -- reminds me of some past time when it's said that we don't stick to the law as a drunk float. We're here to respect the law. Please make sure that at least the arguments we get are meaningful, not like the ones we got when it comes to Mr. Arsen Đuric's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6471	National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word under Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6472	You, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with your powers, have informed the MPs that we will work after 18 hours. It seems to me that's exactly how you formulated it, or I'm sure, so you said we'd be doing it after 18 hours. Given that we're discussing amendments, it's on the agenda, the budget rebalance, and if there is, it seems to me, another 20 amendments, even over 30, it would be good if you told us how long we're going to work, so we're not going to have that awkward situation again from Friday when we worked until 30, when there was a misunderstanding, when it was said that we were going to work until the 50th amendment, so we're going to work until the end, so we're going to work until morning, or I don't know how long. So, it would be good, that's my message to you, if we could still agree on how long we're going to work. If we're working until midnight, then by midnight, it's not a dispute, and if that's what we're talking about, but if you're planning to, and you're not telling the MPs that you're working until the end of this point, then it can really take up to the early morning hours, and I don't think there's any need for that. It would be good for you to let us know, and tomorrow's work day, so we can plan our duties. I don't see any obstacle to working on the amendments tomorrow, given this pace and this dynamic. If you don't think so, then it would be nice for you to inform us about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6473	People's MP, you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. If you make an insight into the stenogram, you'll see that I said, based on article 85 of Section 5, we're working after 18 hours. The People's Messengers ask how far? I refer you all to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and then there will be no misunderstandings, since MPs Slobodan Maras and Zoran Nikolic want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, believing that it has been made since the last injury was explained. Therefore, Article 85(5) says: "The President can extend the work of the National Assembly after 18 hours, only until the debate is completed in principle, or detail, on the starting point of the agenda." By looking at the stenogram, you'll see that I said - Article 85(5). There is no basis in the Rules of Procedure for which the President of the National Assembly or any chairman can say how many hours will work. This may be an agreement between the representatives or president of the parliamentary groups, but cannot be said, as no member of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, including Article 85, has a basis for the chairman to say how many hours. It's easy to spot if you read Article 85. So I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure, but MP Zoran Nikolic did not say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. The word has a Messenger of the people, Slobodan Maraš, and Zoran Nikolic, and Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6474	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, Madam Chairman, by chance, 30 of us here late Friday night. We know what the deal was, we know what the President of the Assembly said – we work until 20 - 21, most MPs or some of them went to glory. The deal was to work up to 20 - 21. Afterwards there was an agreement until the 50th amendment, so the agreement was broken; the head of Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija's parliamentary group was throwing me out of place to work until we were done. So, my predecessor, Mr. Nikolic, came out for a reason to ask how long we work. You may, in accordance with Article 27 and in accordance with Article 98(2), take a short break of three minutes, to arrange for the heads of Parliament to know how long we work. If we're doing it until we're done, then we have to say it -- so we're doing it until we finish this item of the agenda, that is, the discussion of the details. It wasn't his report that was no whim. Your explanation seems more like a whim to me. So you insist -- no injuries, you stick to article 85, etc. He didn't ask you because he's in a hurry to a meeting, or I don't know what, but he just wants to know how long we're working. Say, we're working till the end. So, if it's right, we'll be working till 3:00 in the morning, but to know that's the case. You know what happened last time -- there were 30 of us left in the O.R.; we tortured ourselves and those who looked at this and tortured the minister, etc., just to get something out, to get rid of some of the deadlines you gave yourself, or the bonus you set. It's nothing controversial, we'll do as long as you say, but let's work out how long we'll work. That way you'll avoid any possible obstruction. There's another 30 amendments here, 15 minutes per parliamentary group. So there's no need for anyone to do anything that wouldn't be in line... But it would be nice for you to stick to the agreement, so when the ruling majority, namely the president or head of the Nada Kolundzija parliamentary group, comes out and says, the ruling majority will support the amendment, with the correction, which the New Serbia MPs submitted, then we should not happen to go to the Finance Committee, so that the same corrected amendment comes, which Mrs Hope said she would accept, and all of the ruling majority, seven of them, raise their hands against. It won't change anything, it's just saying that you don't seem to have a deal. Let's make a nice deal. We're giving you a chance to make a nice deal on how long we're gonna work. Either you tell us that we know how long we're going to work, not bid on whether we're going to work until three o'clock, or by 12 or by morning, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6475	People's MP, you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured either. The chairman or president cannot determine, referring to the Rules of Procedure, Article 85, paragraph 5, and to say, we will work until some time in the day. I've read to you Article 85 of Section 5 and I ask you to read it and see that the chairman has no business opportunity to say how many hours will work. A deal can be made within all parliamentary groups and we respect that agreement as it may be, but the chairman cannot say how many hours as he cannot break the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, your invitation to the previous day, extended work as well as just as it can - based on Article 85(5); all other views of article 85 cannot be applied. So, if and when the presidents of the parliamentary groups agree, everyone will know that deal, but I can't say that by referring to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I don't have that option. Please understand that. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6476	Madam Chairman, I claim that article 85 has been broken. Article 85 says in paragraph 5: "Extremely, the president of the National Assembly can decide... "that I don't read you any further, the meaning of you know. Well, that's remarkable. With us, it becomes a rule. Secondly, it does not say in the Rules of Procedure that the chairman and MPs must have common sense, and common sense is not that we do eleven, twelve, one and two nights, unless it is a state of war, I respect that. I am one of the five former presidents of the assembly, various, who are now sitting among the MPs of this parliament. I led over two years of the congregation; we were going to continue the work, but I never extended the work for more than an hour and a half. I have witnesses here who were sitting in the federal parliament. So stop harassing us. I do not belong to those who engage in the entanglement of this congregation. We can continue our work after six hours, but be nice and then at half past eight you finish today's work and we'll continue tomorrow. I repeat, it's not a state of war.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6477	People's MP, you pointed out a violation of article 4, which no one mentioned. Once again, Article 85(5): "The President can extend the work of the National Assembly after 18 hours, only until the debate is completed in principle, or detail, on the starting point of the agenda. "By looking at the stenogram, you will be able to see that I have called on Article 85, paragraph 5. What I cannot do on the basis of the Rules of Procedure is to tell you at what time we will finish our work because no member of the Rules of Procedure makes it possible for me and it is a good thing that no member of the Rules of Procedure makes it possible for any chairman, but that must be the agreement of the president or representative of the parliamentary groups. So, the decision was made in time, 16 hours ago, and until when we're going to work is not the chairman but it's the deal of all the presidents of the parliamentary groups. However and whenever you agree that the work ends today, then it will be completed and we will be informed of the follow-up tomorrow. The word is from MP Zoran Nikolic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6478	It is true that I did not specify which member you violated. I even said in my statement that you did not violate the Rules of Procedure, but that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you have extended the work, but I have asked you here to inform the MPs as long as we are going to work, considering it perfectly normal. It was, at the very least, some practice so far, except for some rare exceptions like last Friday when we actually had misinformation and when we didn't know how long we were going to work, and we were working, now I don't know, for up to an hour. So you keep ignoring one fact. You are referring to Article 85(5). Mr. Shami comes out and reads you Article 85(4) and you ignore it. So here he says, "Extremely, the president of the National Assembly can decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18 hours. "So he can decide. You can decide that. As you have the right and you can decide to extend the work, by that logic you can also decide as long as it works. That's not correct. You're the vice president of the assembly. There are six vice presidents in this assembly, so it's not natural for only you to own that secret at this point where we're going to work without the other vice presidents from other political parties knowing it. Nor do we ordinary mortals, to put it that way, MPs, know that because you don't want to share that information with us. That's the first thing. The other thing is, we went out here on our own good faith and said, "Let's make a deal." You have that possibility. So, call the heads of Parliament, you don't even have to interrupt the session, and let them agree on behalf of the parliamentary groups as long as we work. What we agree, then, should be binding on everything. We have over 30 amendments ahead of us. We, theoretically, can work on the amendments by 9:00 tomorrow morning. If you've decided to work until the end of this point, that means we'll be working until tomorrow morning, till nine o'clock in the morning? Well, it's natural, I think I have the right as an MP and to speak for all MPs, to know how long I'm going to work. First of all, I've submitted some amendments. So I have a right to know and you're bound to tell me how long we're going to work, is that until 8:00, is that maybe longer? I absolutely support what Professor Shami said; there's really no need to work after 20 hours if we're going to work tomorrow morning. It's hard, it's traveling. In the seven years I've been in parliament, I've slept in Belgrade three times. No matter how long it takes, I'm traveling, I'm going back to Shabbatz and I'll be there in the morning. But if I have to leave at five in the morning to sleep for an hour and a half and come back here again, then it goes on to your soul. Let me at least know, let me get ready. Maybe now I can rest for an hour to come back to the O.R. later. So it's impossible to concentrate all night and continue work tomorrow. So I would ask you first of all to contribute to a more tolerated atmosphere, one agreement that is perfectly normal among political parties. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. Here I go. At least you say you always let an MP finish his thought. I'm obviously an exception here, but I understand why you're interrupting. It's simple, or you don't want to do it, so you have some kind of plan, some kind of arrangement you've made with someone, but we don't know... Believe me, if you're still so stubborn, we'll find out who you've agreed with and what your plan is and how long you're planning on harassing us tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6479	National MP, once again, you will be able to see by looking at the stenogram that I have said it all three times, I cannot decide how long it will take, nor can I have a representative or president of the parliamentary groups to know how long it will take to work. All I can do is call Article 85 of Section 5 and extend. However and whenever the presidents agree, the Assembly will be working until then. Once you've agreed, I can get information and I'll officially announce it to enter the stenogram, based on your agreement. I can't tell you how many hours the Assembly will be working. Please once again, Article 85(4) is not applicable, but Article 85(5) is not applicable. We can continue to call for damages to the Rules of Procedure, but all I can do is, 16 hours ago, on a working day, call on Article 85 of Section 5 and say that we'll be working on it after 18 hours. As long as, at a pace, what kind of atmosphere will be in the Assembly, what arrangements will be made between the parliamentary groups, it is on the presidents and on the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. To break the Rules of Procedure can't, because everything about the Rules of Procedure and the course of the session I know prevents me from doing it. So, representatives of the parliamentary groups, agree and inform me, at the same time I will inform the Assembly. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6480	The situation is serious, Mrs. Comic, but I need to make some MPs laugh. You remember that show, or the movie, "Salaš in a small rhythm", when Milan Maljevic advised his friend and told him -- when you go to Schicera, act like that: what he knows and you, which he doesn't know, don't know either. Believe me, I'm in the same situation. I ask Mrs. Komic, and I know that she knows more than I do as vice president of the Assembly, and Mrs. Judita and Mr. Obradovic, who is currently not in the O.R., but I cannot get that information out. Or maybe I'm wrong, Mrs. Comic, that they've put you in a position to chair a Assembly that you don't know how long it's going to be working for? I think it is extremely incorrect, because we did not have a case in earlier practice, when Oliver Dulic was the president of the assembly, nor did Mrs Pop-Lazic before have such a negative experience when Mr Predrag Markovic was president of the Assembly, that we do not know what is done and how much is done. It's quite possible, and you announced it 16 hours ago, in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, that we will be working after 18 hours, but usually the chairman says, until the end of the agenda, or, as you say, when we advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, through our silent agreement, above all, the heads of Parliament's groups. But who do you want Mrs. Pop-Lazic to deal with when there is no head of the DS parliamentary group here? Mr. Dragan Todorovic is not here, he will be in Prijela in three hours, so he will be welcomed by the entire city at the pre-election meeting of the Serbian Radical Party, but therefore there is Mrs. Pop-Lazic, who is the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Where's your president and deputy? Mrs Pop-Lazic and Mr Branko Ruzic will now be agreed. They cannot agree, because both the knife and the cake are in the hands of the Democratic Party, or this Tadic, across the street. So let's take our work seriously and know, because neither Mrs. Judith nor I are Icebane political; we are vice presidents, we sit up and we want to know what we are doing at the chair table because they ask us, both colleagues from our parliamentary groups and from others, until we're done. Mrs. Comic, on Friday, at half past midnight on Saturday, a lady MP passed through a red light; an unscrupulous woman, half past midnight, leaves the Assembly. It's from your client, the Democratic Party. Let me tell you something, people need to know because they are really under extreme tension when it comes to things like this, they want to determine their working hours and to make their options, after all, and psychological and physical alignment with what the chairman, or the president of the Assembly, is not here right now. Take a break, somebody make a deal with someone, because it's really going to be a debate on amendments and budget rebalancing to get us to the morning, or nine o'clock in the morning. It's not a problem, we held meetings in Kragujevac City Assembly from nine to nine in the morning, we endured it well, he knows a colleague from the Democratic Party, but we need to know why we're doing it, what's so urgent and where it burns, what's burning in the state. I think the more important thing about Eulex is that it's much more important that citizens have a hard time living than we do to exhaust ourselves in such a way that we don't know and we don't have a proper relationship with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6481	I can only repeat as many times as it takes for you to inform me that and if I did, I can't tell you how many hours it'll take. All MPs who call for infringements of the Rules of Procedure know that the only option that the chairman has during the working day is that 16 hours ago he says he will be working on Article 85(5). It's the only business opportunity for the chairman. Every time I answered, I said - however the representatives and presidents of the parliamentary groups agree on how long they will be working today... If the MPs who earn -- who, who doesn't know who the presidents of the parliamentary groups are or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are, then it's already a non-serious relationship with parliament, because it's amazing that we don't know who is the president or the authorised representatives or vice president of the parliamentary groups. However you agree that the Assembly will agree, I'll tell you how long it's done. I don't know anything in advance, nor can I know anything in advance. I can't break my rules of procedure. Make a deal during the afternoon whenever you want. I don't think serious people who act as president and vice president need a session to agree on how many hours they'll be working out. It really doesn't look like a serious session. Whenever you want to, by 18 hours, arrange how long it will take to work and how long the congregation will work. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6482	Madam Chairman, I don't know how to say which member of the Rules of Procedure you've broken, but objectively it is. I think the MPs who have been with you for half an hour have been taking this problem that we deserve a little bit more. Here's why I'm telling you this. You're trying, in a half-hour debate, to convince the MPs that you're right, to respect Article 85(4). As I understand it, no MP has challenged you, but Article 98 of Article 2 says: "The President of the National Assembly can set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion." As you have called through the Rules of Procedure for the President's right to extend your work after 18 hours, you should also have called for the right of president, interrupt the session for three minutes and end this problem that has been going on for half an hour. We're here to convince ourselves what's older - coke or egg. I think the MPs deserve more. It's very unserious to say -- well, you know, make a deal and let me know. Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure? Where does it say that representatives of parliamentary groups agree, inform you, and then you determine working hours accordingly? He gave you the Rules of Procedure for the right to call you, because you chair, now you are in office or in the status of president. Call the heads of Parliament, tell them what you have to say and break this farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6483	People's MP, as far as she's told you that no member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, I have nothing to tell you except what I said, but since apparently the presidents and deputies can't agree on this on their own as long as we work here, let's say, at 17:45, 18 hours ago, there won't be a session of the Assembly, there won't be a break, we'll make a deal as long as it works. You make the deal, I can't affect it. People's MPs, a deal between those who need to work should be a very simple thing, because your request is to work on how much we're all capable of doing. Don't do that to the president or to any vice president, nor can I say will you... The presidents of the parliamentary groups, you're agreeing on how much you and all fellow MPs are willing to work. I'm grateful to you because I can't understand that the vice president of the assembly or the president needs to initiate a meeting on how long you've been working. I'd like a P.O.P.P. Lazic to initiate the meeting and arrange how many hours we're working out. He wants to talk about injury to a businessman and he gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6484	Thank you, Mrs. Komic, I think that laughter is never enough, it's good to create such a more relaxed atmosphere in the National Assembly, when the chairman is in the mood as it is today, but we feel a little offended, Madam Chairman. You're talking about Article 85 of Item 5, which gives you the opportunity to extend the work of the National Assembly after 18 hours. That's not controversial. We can work, like we've done many times and by midnight and after midnight, but I suppose you're making a deal with someone whether to extend that work or not. It is obvious that you and the head of Parliament's Group for European Serbia have agreed on this without asking us the heads of other parliamentary groups or deputy heads of parliament, but I ask you to return to the position of 4 of that Article 85, which says that only you can do so and that you must have legitimate reasons. At least it's your turn to say -- we're in a hurry to do that and we're counting on the session to finish tomorrow by noon, because there are other reasons, some other jobs, or we have to vote the day after tomorrow, so let's make an effort to finish as many amendments as possible tonight, and not to appeal here for some of our conversations that haven't even been so far. So, there was no discussion during the session today about how we're going to do it, or how long we're going to do it, and especially since we've already been called up for the next session. Just us, please, explain when we will be able to look at these laws, when we are going to make amendments and what you expect from the next session, where there are very important laws, where we should make a constructive contribution. I guess that's why we're having this discussion about all these laws. So, you give Mrs. Hope Kolundji here, she gives you orders, you make a deal with her that we meet, so let's say, today we'll work, say, by 20, because we're counting on so many amendments, it'll end by four or six tomorrow, we'll vote on Wednesday, and after that we'll go to a new session. We still need to know, because the MPs aren't even hung up on a chivalrous. Show a little respect for these people who sit here every day and, I mean, do what they do best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6485	No member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Article 85(4) refers to the call for a session, not applicable at this time. I can only do it once more, past the Rules of Procedure and ask if I can do it, say that if we don't reach an agreement on time, at 17:45 we'll have a formal meeting to discuss how long we'll be working out. Once again, I don't have any deal with anyone about the hours of tonight's work. And if I had it, you'd know it in the O.R., so there wouldn't be all these objections. So it was mine to say by 16 o'clock that, by applying Article 85 of Section 5, they'd be working after 18 o'clock, and it's up to all of us to figure out how long it's gonna be today. National MP Judita Popovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, so MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6486	Madam Chairman, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when interpreting a member of the law or in particular this Rules of Procedure, it would be appropriate to read the whole article. Item 1 of Article 85, which I also call for infringements of the Rules of Procedure, provides and specifies when the Assembly works: The Assembly works on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 10 and 18 hours. Article 4 says that the president of the National Assembly, if there are reasonable reasons, can extend his working hours after 18 hours. This means that the President of the Assembly, i.e. the person who chaires and replaces the President of the Assembly, is authorised to extend the working time until 18.05, 18.06 etc. So according to this member of the Rules of Procedure, the president of the Assembly is authorized to mark exactly how long the working time is. The position of the 5th member shall be limited by the President of the Assembly, who shall be chaired only in respect of the duration of the debate in principle or in particular. This means that it cannot extend its working hours after the debate has been concluded in principle or on the starting point of the agenda in particular. Therefore, this article 85, I underline and emphasise, let each read, empower the President of the Assembly to determine when the working time will last at the starting point of the agenda. He can't just overstep if the agenda's over. Otherwise, I urge that we work constructively and work constructively. This means that I propose to set a break from 10 to 15 minutes, so that representatives of the parliamentary clubs can agree with the chairman of the National Assembly on the duration of today's work. Otherwise, on Friday night, while we were sitting here discussing budget rebalancing, we received a meeting of the Third Session for the 5th of November 2008, starting at 12.00 hours. 14 points are scheduled for the agenda. These are all serious judicial laws. When can we prepare these laws, amendments, and everything in this short period of time, by Wednesday, especially if we are exhausted because of this part of the agenda and if we work until dawn?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6487	National MPs, no member has been injured. I think we all know that now, it's pretty obvious. So when I refer to Article 85 of Article 5, it clearly writes what it means; everything else is a good tradition in the Assembly, and I have not disputed a good tradition for one moment, nor is it slow now. So, when it came to the first statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, I said - however agreed the president of the parliamentary groups, all MPs agree, the whole assembly knows how far it is; I have no business basis to say by what time it will be, if I call on Article 85(5). That's what we all know. Here are all representatives of the parliamentary groups and agree, in the common interest, on some captainship, to work until that time. It's in line with good customs, but it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's distinguish these two things. Either we're going to have injuries to the Rules of Procedure or you're looking for the application of a good tradition that we've built together, and there's nothing in the Rules of Procedure about. Don't call in any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. If there are all the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, then I ask you to make a meeting and agree on what is optimal to do today. However it is, I will say, as chairman (or whoever holds the presidency) - up to so many and so many hours. I'm really asking that we don't lose weight in this for hurting the Rules of Procedure. If there's anything crystal clear that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, then that's this case. People's MP, Free Maras, says it's been three minutes. It was a minute and forty-five seconds since counterpart Judita Popovic spoke for three minutes and forty-five seconds. Please don't throw away and please don't break the Rules of Procedure any more than we can all tolerate and everything for the good atmosphere in this room. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6488	We've come out here on good faith and asked you to tell us how long we'll be working tonight. You insist on Article 85(5), and we remind you that there is also a Article 85 of Section 4 and that you can decide how long we work. If you have made this decision and have not consulted in this break with the heads of the parliamentary groups, then you have been asked here to take a break of ten minutes, it may take five minutes, and the heads of the parliamentary groups agree on how long we work tonight. We've been talking here for over half an hour, maybe an hour, and that's all you're responsible for. You here deny that there's an 85th position 4, based on which we can define how long we're going to work tonight. I can also be malignant and say that I doubt that you know or that you didn't plan on working until a certain deadline without informing the MPs. What if you planned it until the end of this session? That could be 3:00 tomorrow afternoon. Does it really make sense that we work 40 hours in continuity because you may have made that decision or that you may have made a deal with a certain head of Parliament without the other heads of Parliament being informed about it? Then you're making us a proposal here to make a deal. Who can make a deal? The meetings for this kind of agreement are probably initiated by the President of the Assembly, or by the Vice-President-in-Office, or by the President-in-Office. So, you have this initiative. I'm not the vice president of the assembly, you are, you are the chairman here now, not the chairman. If I were you and I were chairman, I'd take a break and set up a meeting of the heads of Parliament. Let's think about one more thing here. What if, for example, the heads of Parliament can't agree? What in that case? How long are we going to work then? Who's the man who's meant to say - how long are we going to work? So the decision has to be made. We are in agreement, we are in favour of continuing to work on the amendments, as we've been doing all day today, but let's define, so we can plan our time. Simply, extremely tolerated and extremely politely, in a decent way we open up opportunities for you, extremely well-intentioned, to facilitate your work as the current chairman of this congregation. You keep refusing to help, with comments that are unique to you. Let us sit down for a short period of time, we're trying to make it in the next five or ten minutes and figure out if we're working until 20, 22 hours, or I don't know how long. It is my proposal and do not, please, comment more and make comments that absolutely no one understands and that irritate both these MPs and the entire Serbian public who is watching this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6489	People's MP, amazing, but true, we're going to take a break on behalf of unwritten traditions and unwritten rules in the Assembly, not for breaking written rules. Since I don't normally do that, I'm asking the secretary to tell me where the representatives of the parliamentary groups should sit and agree on how far they'll work. First floor hall, presidents, deputies or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. By 4:35, we'll have a deal on how long we'll be working. We'll continue the session at 4.35 p.m. [[After break – 16.40]] We continue our work at 16.40 p.m., after the break at which the presidents, vice presidents and representatives of the parliamentary groups agreed that, on the basis of Article 85(5), we work after 18 hours, and until the debate on the next 20 amendments that are on the agenda in particular. Such an agreement was reached with opposition from SRS deputy MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. That's the way we're gonna work tonight after 18 hours. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment submitted to article 5 by MP Arsen Djuric? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6491	Dear fellow MPs, I really respect the reasons behind the parliamentary majority and the Serbian government that tomorrow afternoon or in the evening it must vote this budget rebalance, but, as you can see, we are becoming the hostages of the Serbian government. I'm just asking you, and there must be a doctor among you, is it possible from a physiological point of view that a man works from eight in the morning to two in the night and comes back to work tomorrow? I understand that soon we will all become slaves thanks to this new world order and the policy that is being led in this country. I don't see any Tin Man here among you. There's no Robocap here. We have some limits of endurance as far as we can work. If you want us to go home and not work after 9, 10, when we feel so exhausted that we can collapse here, then that's another thing. Then say we don't want the opposition to explain its amendments. You're gonna make us seek the help of a doctor or go home and get some rest. You will allow, in addition to these obligations that we have here, we, as MPs, have other obligations. Of course, as family people and living things, we also have family obligations. Therefore, our limits of endurance exist. I don't know, they're smaller, they're bigger, but don't let your conscience bite you after someone feels responsible for the voters, according to their call to the MP, here to be exhausted, I don't know, until midnight, and then go to the doctor. Take a little check. Why do we have to work at that pace? Because that's what the government said. Did the government have to deliver the draft budget to the first? Yeah, well, it's not. So what isn't now, what do we do to her? What mechanisms do we have to deliver to the government now and say, you had to deliver it to us by the first, so you didn't deliver? What do we do to them? Should we go protest in front of the government? They don't care. So do we. Who's older here in this country, Government or us? Come on, now, let's get the parliamentary majority and let's go home. The parliamentary majority has no amendments. There are opposition. You don't respect democracy in parliament. Let this be on your soul. I just had an obligation to say this for the public. So, it's not that we won't, but there must be some order in both this House and this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6492	National MP Milos Radulovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have a word on the basis of Article 100(1), then MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6493	Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say: "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly may decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work after 18 hours, if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the president declares to the MPs. "It is indicative here that in the debate on budget rebalancing, the exception becomes a rule. And on Friday, when we discussed budget rebalancing, we extended our work and worked in the deaf hours of the night, to 1.15, so, an hour and 15 minutes a night. We're already getting longer work today, because we have 20 more amendments, so it's agreed, which we need to cross over. If we have 15 minutes per amendment, that's 300 minutes, which means we have an extension of work of about six hours. That means there's going to be a debate after midnight. What worries is that amendments and budget rebalancing are under discussion in the late hours of the night. I'm afraid, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, that you want to hide something from the citizens, as the MPs of the opposition point out through their amendments, because it's the only possibility that they can deliver an opinion on the budget rebalancing that's on the agenda. In this way, you show that you have no minimum responsibility to those who fill this budget out of their taxes and obligations, which you treat like this. I am afraid that this is how you deny citizens the opportunity to get the right information about the essence of why the budget rebalancing debate is being led and what are the items we are discussing. Just to conclude, as I said when I submitted my amendment, this government is extremely wasteful and that's why we're having the debates to the bottom of the night, so the citizens don't know the essence of this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6494	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1) and there is no violation of Article 85(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6495	Dear colleagues, the President-in-Office, I checked in just before that break, and I really wanted to support my colleague, Judith Popovic. When it comes to the agenda scheduled for the next session scheduled for Wednesday, it is extremely incorrect for the government to deliver such a agenda to us at midnight Friday. When we all expected to get the budget, we received a set of judicial laws, extremely important, which in Serbia's judiciary raises great dust. Justice is upset, judges are upset, administrative workers are insecure, many will lose their jobs, etc. I'm saying all of this because it was absolutely a reason to put the 9th point - the bill on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act as a special point, to keep the citizens safe in their foreign currency roles. It's absolutely good for the government, the state, we all want stability. There is no way we can accept this item of the agenda being spoken of after a set of law on justice. Why am I saying this? All this points out, this speed, this work on these and these amendments, the night work, the exhaustion, that the desire of the ruling coalition is to wear us out and that we "run" over these very important laws. Each state has a legislative, executive and judicial authority, and we will run this through and we will cause a lot of problems because Serbia has not matured to apply this law to our judiciary, especially as it is for 2010. This may be okay when Serbia is in the European Union someday, but now it is absolutely not possible to do such a thing. To point out once again, deposit insurance was to be set aside; I think there would be agreement between all MPs. This is how it turns out that we're constantly under pressure, as an opposition, to work fast. Eventually, if we don't accept a point like this or speed, it turns out we're never gonna get to the deposit insurance. Thank you. It's very incorrect, I repeat again, which instead of getting the budget we got a set of laws at midnight on Friday, and on November 5th we should continue on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6496	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6497	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I think it's very important what happened in the past half hour, an hour to show the picture of what it is, unfortunately, in Serbia. So, despite the constant gatherings, despite the announcements of the rally to begin next year, we are in a situation that someone today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, will again accuse the opposition's MPs of obstructing the work. I have to say for the public's sake -- budget rebalance came late to the Serbian Parliament, and now we're chasing to adopt it by tomorrow afternoon, or when. It's no problem at all, but then we could work on Saturday; I suggested that we stop doing it on Friday night, so we could do it on Saturday. Then we come into a situation where the chairman of 45 minutes ignores a simple request to meet the heads of parliament, so we can move on to work on the amendments, but let's agree on how we're going to work. So, 45 minutes. With all due respect to the chairman, but I think that's how she was obstructing, persistently showing her power in the place where she sits. We want it to be clear to the public, I hope most people in this room agree, the government is the one who late delivers the laws, the government is the one who delivered 14... Or, we have a session with 14 points, a shower of judicial laws. Really, like my colleagues said before, when did that happen? It is not a problem that MPs do not want to work, on the contrary, the Liberal Democratic Party, in line with the number of MPs and the similar opportunities for each member of the 5th budget rebalancing, to submit one amendment each, submitted 15th, 17 amendments. We're sitting here in the O.R., we're discussing every amendment, we want to fix... That is how other colleagues from the opposition parties submitted amendments. We want to fix this budget rebalancing law, but we have to have a chance to do it, not to work 15 hours a day. That was all that mattered, Madam Chairman, which is why we called and asked you to schedule a meeting of the heads of Parliament. Finally, you did it for Mrs. Hope Kolundzija's intervention, head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, and it's good that she still has reason here, so we can make a deal. We want to discuss further, we want citizens to be awake when we are discussing amendments and to hear why we believe that the budget rebalance, as it is in front of MPs, is not in the citizens' interest, is not in the interests of the state, that it could have been much better, and that is why we have submitted the amendments. I reported in accordance with Article 104 for a violation of the dignity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6498	National MP Vladan Batic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1), so MP Paja Momcilov. There's no damage to article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 194. No one's representing the government today. We can't work. In accordance with the provisions of Article 94 on government representation, etc., I was thinking about this economic sector, so they couldn't bring us a minister of sports to represent the government, most ideally, when it comes to budget rebalance. It's all upside down here, this whole story reminds us of the story of cricket and ant. For a month and a half, parliament has not worked, there's no telling why, and now it's trying back-to-back at some point to work, at the time of morning roosters or night vampires, because we have an incompetent ruling coalition, and that explains the whole thing. Look, all that's fast is sweet. The global financial crisis has come to you as a balm on the wound. All those lies and false pre-election promises say -- we'd keep it, but it's a global financial crisis; and five million shares of 1,000 euros -- can't, the global crisis; and pensions 70% of the salary -- can't, the global crisis; and the budget. So who are you making crazy about? It's like citizens are mentally retarded. It's all a global financial crisis. And then the same ones who, due to the global financial crisis, cannot secure pensions, actions, say -- will act favourably on Serbia. Well, it's a reactivated Milosevic matrix. Well, he was speaking at a time of sanctions -- we'll be able to heat up and feed half of Europe; so he was saying at a time of sanctions that they would act affirmably on the development of certain branches of the economy. So that's why you're in the coalition with the SPS, but you should go with them a little bit under the lip in Pogorec, to bow down to the shadows of your cousin. And the Divac might join you. A big one like that, after Tadic, Kostunica, now he's an adviser to Dacic. If it wasn't sad, it would be funny; this is how it's all tragic together. So, instead of having a draft budget law, you're breaking the Constitution; what doesn't have to, and what doesn't have to be a set of judicial laws faster and better, as if Valentino Rossi had entered the Serbian Assembly, so let's get someone there if he can. It really doesn't make sense. This is really an insult to intelligence, an insult to common sense, an insult to all normal citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6500	There is no violation of Article 194, because the session is attended by Telecommunications and Information Society Minister Jasna Matic, who you were informed about during the day by a notice delivered to you on the bench. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1), so MP Paja Momcilov. I called you, but the secretary told me he was listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6501	Mrs. Comić, I think a serious violation of Article 104 has really been done. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I was really at the party on Friday, and I had a chance to watch what it looks like in a direct transmission. I'm not going to mention the names of the MPs that the camera zoomed in on, but it seemed like they hadn't slept in three days, or eaten or cursed the day they decided to continue the work. I don't want to mention names, so you don't get me wrong. Regardless of what you say after every MP who comes out for this pay phone, there's no harm to the Rules of Procedure, we can all say, we're asking to vote in the voting day on that and that you're voting on just one more question for two hours, but I have no intention of doing it. However, I must draw your attention to one thing. The debate on budget rebalancing is probably the most beneficial thing for this government, as it has to come with the 2009 agenda in a month. It is likely that after such a thorough debate, the number of reasons for a more extensive budget debate for 2009. I am speaking hypothetically, provided that what we are talking about for a few days about budget rebalancing is heard by Mirko Cvetkovic, Boris Tadic and those who are creating the budget for next year. That's one option. I have to distract you, we've got a session agenda today that starts the day after tomorrow. That's 14 points of the agenda. If the MPs are working... And when two MPs are here, the Assembly is working, such is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two MPs can work, and it is treated as working 250 MPs. Fourteen points of the agenda to read, in terms of material, and there are very large and important laws, especially these first eight-nine, it's impossible. Here, start reading now; by Wednesday, by 12 o'clock you won't be able to read the materials. I can accept anything, as far as I'm concerned, if you want, we can do it by 23. We've worked here and vampire sessions, we've had as many of them as you want during Markovic, they've been fainting here ministers, there's no problem. But it's a demeaning of the National Assembly, that's what you should know. Let me draw your attention to one more thing: today is no problem, since there are computers, that for 14 draft laws, an amendment is submitted to each member - deleted. That's 750 amendments. See when you finish the next session. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6502	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. There's no breach of Article 104. People's MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, we now have one sad session of our Parliament again. Nothing new, you'd say a man, he's seen it before, and the citizens get used to it. What's sad? It is sad that we have a budget law that is considered the most important law for a parliament and then, practically, you have more things that are sad. The amendments were made, in practice, only by the opposition. On the other hand, it is sad that this opposition is. MPs are put in one meat grinding machine and want to be physically and mentally devastated completely. In elementary school children learn what is a normal life cycle and when a day-night cycle is respected then little children learn that it is eight hours of work, eight hours of other activities, which do not have to be even a passive vacation, and eight hours of sleep something suitable for mankind. You here, not for the first time, are violating the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, subjecting us to MPs who want to do something unfair, exhausting, so that we don't do quality work. The fact that you on the left-hand side don't want to work, we don't blame you, we understand you, but we don't understand why you impose these conditions of mental terror on us who want to work. You see, when Dr. Dejanovic is chaired here, then it's until 8:00, and now it can go as far as you want. Madam Chairman, if you don't notice that every time something unpleasant has to be done, you find yourself in the chair. Not to say anything about disrespecting the other vice presidents, who are absolutely unequal, whom you do not submit, insult, and insult us MPs who we have vice presidents from these parliamentary groups, who are not up to the running of this session. Of course, it's nothing new, it's something quite old. But I urge you, on the left hand side, in your position, do not play with us and with the citizens of Serbia. Don't invalidate our work. It's a shame to work like this. The vampire sessions you're making are a satanic product of someone's sick imagination, not a normal man. If I can, as a doctor, influence you, I'm trying. I'm hardly gonna make it. It's nothing, this parliament has a number of other things, not to say scandal about our visit to Republika Srpska... Since time is running out, I'm not going to talk about it right now. I'm asking you to work till 8:00, not anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6504	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure described in the previous presentation of MP Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6505	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that every member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is present at the session, especially when the agenda is this important, and Mrs Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications, has joined us in the afternoon part of the session, but it is also true that according to this point of the agenda, the government's authorised representative at the National Assembly of Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, and for the trustees are designated Janko Guzian, who came several times, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs Ruzica Stojljkovic, assistant director of the Treasury Administration. Now I ask you, where is the authorised representative, Minister of Finance? Why is she not here with us today, and are you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Matic, able to go out after the Rules of Procedure, agreed to work on tours, like by factories, in three shifts, so when one minister gets tired, then one who has no more obligations in that part of the day comes to be a representative of the government when considering the budget in particular? Because if I try to find some connection that you've come up with that logic and now, given your ministry of telecommunications portfolio, you've jumped into a debate about a division that defines a job in the Ministry of Telecommunications area -- it's not because we're not talking about it. So there should be a Minister of the Interior here today and you should call, because we talked about the amendments, if you go to that logic, about BIA, Vukadinovic; we talked about this link between Alexander Vukic and the British Intelligence Service, about having listening devices, that he was a coward, that he staged all the events in the Krtkovci. And now to repeat all that, Mrs Matic, about any other amendment or to ask that question, how can you answer that question when you are not an authorised representative of the government? Mrs. Komic, you really owe us that explanation, or someone from the ruling coalition. If we're forced here to act incorrectly and force something, it's like we're working on a machine track, so we have a standard and then... I can't believe, look, I've been a MP for 14 years, that we started working on the daily norm, so either 10, or 12, to 51, to 74. Well, that's never been done, people. We work part-time on the amendments and the way the session goes. This is really some new fashion. On Friday, I first heard that we were going to do it and that, and now we're working in pieces, so you know, Serbian citizens, the amendment. There's 29 left, let's go 20 tonight, that's the norm for tonight, tomorrow we'll be nine. Well, what does that look like? Maybe we'll do three or four amendments, who knows how many hours, start from each MP group using 15 minutes, and then challenge replicas, etc. Then you can't really hypothetically predict how long it takes for 20 amendments, if you've made any sense. So, it's okay, Mrs. Matic, that you're here as Minister of Telecommunications, which was Sasha Dragin, but where's the finance minister, who's authorized? Then, by that logic, let the other ministers continue. Here, we should talk about Oliver Dulic's area right now. Now call him, because when there's another amendment, we need Oliver Dulic. If that makes any sense to which you went; if not, then it is unserious and let the citizens of Serbia see what this looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6506	National MP Vladan Batic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure after the previous presentation. Article 194 paragraph 2 - The Government shall designate a representative at the meeting of the National Assembly, and the session shall take place as agreed with representatives of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6507	Mrs. Komic, Article 27, Article 85. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and Article 194 which I mentioned. I'm asking you another thing, with which you're entitled to arbitration, whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured? Mrs. Comic, you don't know that. Here, even some top legal experts can't dare judge faster or better whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured or not. What are you, some witch doctor, Mrs. Comic? Some sort of supreme deity? You're now arbitating how you can think of it. You have no right to do that. Secondly, the government determines its representatives, but in addition to the bill and before the start of that agenda, and not like this - who has nothing to do in the government, he comes to the Assembly to represent it. I don't mean to disrespect Mrs. Jasna Matic. I'm sorry, we met, I didn't know Mrs. Secretary. But no wonder I didn't know, three days ago, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at the press, there was an interview with Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who didn't know who the Minister of Human and Minority Rights was, he said - I know he was the former Constitutional Court judge, so he whispered to him some of the great advisers, I mean Svetozar Chiplic, so he didn't even know who the minister of religion was. So it's probably no wonder for me that I haven't had a chance to meet Madam Minister. So, a member of 194 was injured. It must be said in advance who represents the Government, with the agenda and the material that goes along the agenda, according to a specific bill. Secondly, we've been asking questions all day to whoever represents the government, and here it's supposed to be the finance minister, and he needs to answer those questions for us. So, from one to three, one minister, three to five, etc. Mrs. Komic, please answer me by which member of the Rules of Procedure you are arbitration and which article 85 states that time is determined according to the number of amendments. If you find me that member and that attitude, then we can move on. I would suggest that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure be made by one special member - time for the presentation of Gordana Komic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6508	The National MP, Member of the 100rd position – the president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation and, if the MP remains in the position of a member of the Rules of Procedure, then the Assembly decides. When an explanation is given under Article 100(3), I am obliged to do so. When it comes to Article 85(5), I explained it to the MPs and I really don't think I should say it one more time. As for the ambiguity about why I informed about the content of MPs' content, this is the content of the agreement that 20 amendments are being made today. This does not say in any of the Rules of Procedure, and we took a break so that we could agree on unwritten rules in the congregation. I assume you weren't in the O.R. when we scheduled a break during the session. You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Dobrislav Prelic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of article 100. 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I am asked by the citizens of Vojvodina, you know that I am from Odzaki municipality, are you the deputy president of the Assembly, the first vice president of the Assembly, even going so far as to ask me that you don't have a golden voice here in the National Assembly. Mrs. Komic, we are all witnessing what happened on Friday, not only the MPs here, but also the citizens of Serbia. No problem is that we've been working for so long. You have seen that, to your general surprise, the opposition is unique and that Mrs. Hope Kolundji has failed to push through what she has imagined, as ordered by the yellow dictator. Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija said - we are working until the end, and the budget rebalance, which is very good and what our citizens know, you can imagine how good it is when there are 84 amendments. It can't be overrun. I don't think the way you run the Assembly is simply not, to say the least, appropriate. Mr Batic asks why there was no Assembly for 45 days. Our citizens know very well why there was no Assembly for 45 days. The assembly was not due to the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, the assembly was not due to the murder of Rank Panic at the SRS rally, the assembly was not until the yellow dictator formed power as he wants in Belgrade, but this is very good for Serbian citizens to see what you want. Mrs. Komic, you are a permanent reminder of the opposition's MPs. Now I've got a gentleman on this left-hand side throwing it at me, and you don't think to warn him. It's good for our citizens to see it all. Mrs. Comic, I would like to inform the public that in the municipality of Kula today a few parliamentary mandates have been returned to the Serbian Radical Party. There's a little bit of corn in every grain. We had some weeds in the Tower, too. However, believe me, to my surprise and pleasure, it is there in power of the DS, but it seems to me to me that the weeds are the ones who respect the law and are shown by the councilmen in the Tower. I'm asking you to do the same thing here in the National Assembly. (President: Please state which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm asking for a notice from you as long as you think you're harassing the MPs first of all. If you'll just let me finish...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6510	People's MP, we have an agreement on the use and abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but the exposure without that elemental information about which member you are calling does not give you the basis to get your word. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that I am delighted with the President's explanation that there is no breach of article 104 and that this is dignified - to work to the point of exhaustion. You've seen the movie "The Horses Kill, Don't You", it creates the same atmosphere, if someone is a fan of film art and that film then they can look at this situation in that context. Also, I join you in assessing that there is no breach of Article 104. Perhaps we could declare here the most long-sitted, long-sustained, and share the badges, as it was in the old communist era. It's not what our esteemed position thought of, but here, I suggest they think about it. It's all part of your explanation. I think I'm being constructively involved right now and I'm helping you right now. You're going to ask me - and which member of the Rules of Procedure are you advertising? Of course, Article 85. Let's hear from you that explanation, wisely, in such a way, if it is necessary to schedule such sessions, which is a justifiable reason that it has to be forced to endure. Look, all I want to do is defend the human dignity of the MPs, nothing more. If you think that you can do quality mental work, and we need to work in the Assembly primarily using mental functions, 10-12 hours, I'm sorry, it might just be in the "yellow company" that you're so durable. Then you're some superhumans. The rest of us didn't. Imagine my colleague leaving the interior early this morning at four o'clock, driving, and now he needs this torturer of yours to suffer, and you already gave him a slap Tuesday, when you scheduled that session with 14 points of the agenda, with the laws you've put on the market only today to see them. What do you think? What do you expect to happen here? How can you not be ashamed to continue? I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6512	The amendments were submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic to section 5 of the amendments. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6513	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the amendment submitted by the DSS MPs, and on their behalf by Mr Milan Dimitrijevic, refers to the area of environmental protection. I'm very sorry that we don't have a conversation here, which means the government doesn't intend to adopt this amendment, because it didn't send an argument that I can convince by my argument to accept that amendment. Although the last few years in Serbia have really been spoken and some have been working in the field of environmental protection, and here, above all, I mean legislation, but in this area things are difficult to change and they are very complicated. The DSS parliamentary group submitted this amendment, believing this and how important the area is, and the budget for the environmental protection area is re-balanced so little, it is a percentage of 0.23, that it is indeed a scandalous one. The country that takes care of its environment and speaks of it as a priority cannot afford it, because when joining the European Union, the country had, like, 1.5% - 2.5% of gross social product. In Serbia, an estimated 1,000 plant communities were registered, and the number and diversity of fauna are also high. The total number of birds of nests, mammals, reptiles, amphibians and fish accounts for 40.3% of the total number of these animals in Europe. Unfortunately, we can't worry about that, so around 600 species of plants in Serbia have been killed and threatened, and around 500 species in Serbia's territory are already at risk. If we talk about the total area of protected natural areas, it amounts to approximately 6.5% of our total territory, which is funny compared to other countries that protect their environments. I have to say that we have six national parks, 98 nature reserves, 16 landscapes of exceptional features, 296 monuments of nature, 24 nature parks, and 215 plant and 426 animal species are protected as natural values. I must say, this amendment that we have submitted is aimed at the area of environmental protection and it refers to the Nature Protection Office. A few more things are important, we have several sites that are protected as areas of international importance; you have all heard of Ludosko Lake, Obedska Bar, Stari Begej, Tsarska Bar and Slano kolova and, according to the Convention on Nature and Cultural Heritage, we have a space of Golia - Studenica, along with a biosphere reserve. According to the plan and programme that the Ministry of Environment, here it is, you see, delivered to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment... I must mention that the Democratic Party of Serbia at the moment when such a ministry was formed, which has the name of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, was against it, because it felt that both spatial planning and the environment were so important, large and wide an area that whoever wanted to bring those two areas together actually wanted to make a big, fine fog around one and the other, so that we would not engage in any more serious and deep cuts that required the problems of that moment. It seems to me that by forming this ministry in such a way, and with this budget, we have achieved it. So, according to the plan and programme of this ministry that I mentioned here, it is defined that the Ministry will work on the education of the surveillance and protection services of these areas. I see the Ministry lists 21 such a new area. So it's a pretty big job, and it organizes and educates supervisory services and organizes surveillance information systems. That really requires huge budgets and therefore the response the government has provided me here shows that she hasn't actually thought about it. I want to say one more thing. Today, on the Committee on Environmental Protection, the minister complained about how little funds he had received and was surprised to see such an amendment as to which the DSS parliamentary group wants new funds to be allocated to the Ministry of Environment. Take note of the government's response - while the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning in the budgetary procedure for budget rebalancing did not show the need for additional funding within the framework, etc. Therefore, the ministry does not need these funds, although it should protect 21 new areas, to educate services and everything else. What is clear to us as the DSS parliamentary group is that the government is not aware at all that this law system in this area is not consistent at all, that we still have a problem with the fact that our laws in this area are not in line with EU law. Also, it doesn't seem to matter to the government that there is no national strategy for conservation and promotion of biodiversity and that we don't have a list of data on biodiversity. The next problem we point to is the problem of inadequate management of protected natural resources. We have so many cases: here's the story of the Old Mountain, about Uvec; we have so many stories that we don't have room to talk about right now because the MP group wants to say something else about it. We have a fully undeveloped information system and, most importantly, we have inefficient surveillance of protected areas. That is why it is important to allocate additional funds, because all the goods we have listed here belong to all Serbian citizens. This government, which says to itself that it is pro-European, must adopt such an amendment, because this is one pro-European attitude, we protect our environment and our beauty and what nature and God have given us. The fact that we don't have an adequate talker here today, so the minister who deals with finance or environmental protection, shows that the government actually has no intention of seriously dealing with the amendments that are ahead of it, so every further sitting is a waste of time because we don't have a talker to give arguments to convince him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6514	Thank you. Mr. Maras, after the amendment, and then Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6515	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I am reporting that on behalf of the Liberal Democratic Party, I am saying something about an amendment submitted by my colleague Dimitrijevic from the Democratic Party of Serbia; not so much about the amendment itself, but about the response that came from the government, or about the relationship the government has on this important topic, which is environmental protection. The amendment is designed to transfer funds from one item to the Ministry of Ecology from another ministry. When the topic here was an oil-gas agreement and environmental issues, we heard many times from MPs from various political parties that pollution in this country, especially in some environments and environments near Belgrade, is extremely large and that in some areas, in Bor, for example, the situation is alarming. Of course, the funds that the DSS MP predicted would be transferred to the Ministry of Ecology would not be enough, but that is at least one step towards improving certain conditions, however, the response that came from counterpart Dimitrijevic is saying that the government obviously has no hearing. I don't blame the minister very much, the minister isn't from that profession. I believe he has good intentions to do good things. Although I was an opposition, I was under the impression that the previous minister who was in that place was really doing everything possible to improve that area of environmentalism. On the case, Liberal Democratic Party President Cedomir Jovanovic is chairman of the Ecology Committee in this assembly and today you have had the opportunity to see the first effects of his presidency – in the Serbian Parliament, we hope, full implementation of the smoking ban law. It's just a little bit that talks about the care that exists not only in our party but also in some other parties and about trying to get the ecology that belongs to it, that is, to get the funds that belong to it. I would be free to read a part of the explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons why reducing the 511-building and construction buildings, within section 14 - Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Agriculture, Chapter 14.3 - Republic Water Directorate, would compromise the implementation of the commitments undertaken for water installations, while the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning in the budgetary procedure through budget rebalancing did not show the need for additional funding under the appropition of 451." From this explanation, we saw that the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning did not require any more funding. I have to ask the Minister in charge, or the Minister in charge of the environment, where does he live? Serbia is really very threatened. Our health... There are doctors from every MP's group, they know how it is and what degree of health is at stake in this country. When the Democratic Party entered the government, we expected that, according to your tendency, which is the EU, you would try through this particular area to demonstrate in the best possible way what European laws should be passed, what European laws should be applied, right through this area of environmentalism. Everywhere, in every country in the environment and in Europe, this is one of the most important issues. We're in a situation where whoever the minister is right now feels he doesn't need any more resources. I'm undermining that we're going to have a terribly big problem. You've adopted an oil-gas agreement, and that's why I find you responsible, the ruling majority, or DS. You've adopted an oil-gas deal, we've talked about it, that's what all the experts say, the oil that we've been processing in this country is terribly polluting the environment, which affects the lives of citizens. Now, by signing this agreement, you don't have a single guarantee of environmental protection. Everything will fall on the burden of the Serbian state. I expect that in the 2009 budget, and I will be happy to support it, Minister Dulic will seek more funding, for that very reason. Of course, it's one of the aspects of environmental pollution, and it's very significant and very fundamental. We really expect, and there you will have full support from the LDP, that more funds will be sought for the environment ministry. I'm undermining, in agreement with the Russians, there's not a single word on environmental protection. Of course they'll want as much oil as possible here. Of course it will lead to pollution. If they're going to, and we heard from you that they have, to invest in the development of technology, or to modernise NIS, excellently, but it can't happen overnight. That is why we find it irresponsible from the ministry not to ask for more funds, and it will be extremely irresponsible not to seek greater resources to protect the environment in the 2009 budget. I believe that fellow Dimitrijevic who submitted this amendment had a very good intention. We see where he rerouted the funds and we don't think anyone in this room would mind if this amendment was adopted, and if he was taking it off a good appraisal, that's the second question, that can be discussed. I think that the funds that he has foreseen can only partially improve the situation in which we are living for the next two months, but I ask you that when it comes to the 2009 budget, because of all of us citizens of this country, you make a little more account that this ministry gets a much bigger funding, so that it can solve any problem that arises in this country when it comes to environmental protection, and indeed there are many. That's what the citizens of Panchev, Bora and many other environments know. We know what happened with Tis last year. We have a big problem. Since I come from Vojvodina, just one more detail, the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel is a litter of infection, a litter of poison, and that's where we're supposed to invest the funds. The Duke's Leaders should be shown and, of course, the responsible ministries. I believe that in Serbia, which I do not know as well as Vojvodina, there must be troublesome places and I believe that all MPs will support an increase in the budget for this environment ministry. I speak on purpose without urbanism. I think this ministry must get full support in this Parliament and in the government itself, to make all of us a life for a shade of healthier and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6516	Thank you. Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6517	Madam President, I'm glad you're back, because, first of all, you're going to be able to assess, in accordance with the further session, by the time the MPs can work. Because on Saturday night, I said that when you weren't here, before this break that allegedly made the deal, Mrs. Pop-Lazic didn't agree to it, that we were working on a 20-change standard here tonight -- it happened that one of our colleagues had passed through the red light at half past midnight. Although it's a deaf age, it was on the street where there's a huge frequency of cars over the weekend in Belgrade, and it's just lucky something didn't happen to her. In order not to hold back on it, it will be necessary at some point, so, as the session takes place, to meet with the presidents of the parliamentary groups and to see reasonably how we can end this today and by what time, rather than limit it by the number of amendments that have been made. I'm reporting for my colleague Dimitrijevic's amendment, because this topic is environmental protection and environmental protection... Although we have a strange combination of spatial planning and ecology, a special ministry made for your former colleague, or our Oliver Dulic, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic himself in his exposé, I have just remembered that, he has not devoted a single sentence to the environment and the protection of the environment. What I have in front of me is what you got. So, on 10 October 2008, the government, i.e. the Vice-President, first Deputy Prime Minister Mr Ivica Dacic, sent us information on the completion of Serbia's national EU integration programme and the need for its adoption, etc. I am now on page 474, which is about the environment and the state of play in Serbia. In order to explain to the citizens that you are not that big of a concubine and that by deception, I mean the ruling coalition, first of all by throwing dust in the eyes of the citizens, that this is all we need to do, so you can adopt a package of laws, so you'll have a white Schengen list, so just let Eulex move against the law and take over to the end of Kosovo and Metohija, and we're about to join the EU... Please, we are obsessing over things that are of serious and vital importance, which ultimately define the future position and status of our country, and do not tell citizens that in those segments of functioning our social life, as is the protection of the environment, and that there are many conditions, also by the EU, in which you wish to enter, and that these deadlines are extremely long. This means, if in this plan that we have received and which I now have in front of me only for certain projects, and they are a prerequisite for harmonising with the laws of the EU countries, it takes three or four years, until 2012, then why are you distracting citizens of Serbia by issuing and selling state and national interests and by saying that Serbia is about to be admitted into the EU? Our Republic Bureau of Statistics... Here again, we do not have a good talker, is Mrs Matic present here, but she is talking to counterpart Gorica Mojovic, who does not want to hear what I'm saying about the area of ecology and environmental protection. Then I must speak to you, Mrs. Rose, because there is no Mrs. Dragutinovic. We have in Serbia as much as-so-recorded records of environmental monitoring in Serbia, by segments: air pollution, industrial waste, deposits located in the area of Serbia, which have been identified, and there are those that do not identify even local environments. Here's an example of Kragujevci. It's almost the city center itself, let's say by the air line from the city center a mile away, we have a settlement Erdech that's on the edge of that circle of the flag. Now comes the Fiat. In 1999, these NATO villains destroyed and leveled five factory halls. After that, these same workers, who were out of work and who now have no guarantee that they would work at the Fiat, cleared up that shot. It's nuclear waste. Much of it is behind the four family houses, I apologize to the citizens of Erdec in Kragujevac, I can't remember the street, which is situated there. It is no accident that, unfortunately, two ladies from those houses behind whom nuclear waste was removed from the flag died of cancer. That's what we went to record in the election campaign. How many such dumps in Serbia we don't know about and the Republic Institute can't track them? Based on what the Republic Statistics Institute provides to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all of these segments are subject to budget separation. Col. Milan Dimitrijevic rightly says: "People, that's not enough." Enough arguments were given by Col. Milica Vojić-Markovic, as it is impossible for you to protect the entire environment and what is truly a national treasure. It's mentioned here at the Obedic Bar, and there's various buttocks where there's rare animal species. I must remind you that one Deputy Prime Minister, and now in 2008, Milan Veselinov participated in the biggest smuggling in rare bird species. More than 250,000 rare birds carried the Italians, smuggled them, and didn't respond until today. What happened to that unfortunate woman they killed in downtown Belgrade, that's where they say they slipped through the needle's ears. Imagine that robbery. We're talking about it in 2008, and you had a Deputy Prime Minister, your coalition partner, who acted that way. As for the wastewater treatment plant, every president of the municipality will tell you – that is, some former president of the municipality, because here only this Stevanović, who is the mayor of Kragujevac, will not, though they warn him, resign from the post of MP – that no project for wastewater treatment has been approved by the state in the budget, but are projects for which local self-governments have competed, mostly with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development or with some other investment banks from the West. We have a project in the field of environmental protection, from Surdulica, for the protection of Lake Vlassin and the whole environment, when Dr Stanislav Momčilović was the president of the municipality in the last meeting; a capable man, I managed, i.e. it was a loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The state didn't invest one single dinar in all this. Then what are we talking about? Do you know what they say to you here? We will be able to discuss Serbia's concrete accession to the European Union once you have completed all these projects, achieve harmonisation, and before we can see whether the monitoring of this situation in the field of environmentalism... Because the most important thing for them is to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, which is obviously the whole public and with the help of Boris Tadic, they are doing, but this is also important. When they kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, they will say "you can't because of ecology, you can't because of education, health care" and constantly blackmail and pressure. You can see here that they are not at all satisfied with the situation, but what do we care that they are not, when they are not Serbian citizens. What kind of water do they drink, and is that water right? What kind of water do our children drink in schools? Look, these are official findings of the Ecology Inspectorate from the Forest County area: there are over 70 schools in Šumadia where the drinking water is invalid. Who controls these sources, or those private procedures, when it comes to the use of drinking water? I don't care what kind of water he drinks in that castle in Bajcetina, this Nikolic, boasted there to cross some surpluses and glasses, when he went to build that empire, a villa of at least a million euros in Bajcetina, so he says - wherever I step, one source. One day he comes in and says, "Six springs of water I found." I don't care, if you want to go all day and drink that water, I guess it'll make you feel a little wise, don't do that kind of thing anymore, and don't be such an immoral man. You know, I'm interested in what kind of water the citizens of Vranjska Banja drink. I was in Vranjska Banja all weekend and days before that. Ask the Banjchans how many problems they have. He came in the other day, Oliver Dulic, and now he's not here to answer me, when it comes to the biggest problem of the life of Vranjska Banja citizens, and there are elections in five days, whether he offered a solution. No, it's not even the current government. A temporary organ was introduced when the municipal government in Vranjska Banja could not be established, but people now lack drinking water. So the question is, do you have any awareness that these are citizens' life problems? You know what they say, it's far from Belgrade, to Thessaloniki, a hundred lemons. Someone must come here from our peasants, farmers only to sell something at Belgrade markets or, God forbid, people who are destined to be treated in Belgrade hospitals. Go into their midst and see what it looks like, how many wild dumps are all over Serbia. The most impressive part of the campaign remains for me is what is the situation in Jablanic and Toplico County. That beauty, that wonderful end; indeed God has rewarded our Serbia for having both a healthy air and a healthy country and so much water. It is, despite the 78 days of bombing, still remains as healthy as possible, but these people between their fields have wild dumps between their villages in the 21st century, because the state doesn't care about it. How many times did Mr. Jojic have to go out for a pay phone and report when he has to concentrate all these negative substances in the air in Pančev inform Pančevci; if he comes in the morning at nine o'clock and the situation gets worse, alarming and saying – people, do something, so many people are already sick and it's such a difficult situation. Therefore, when it comes to environmental protection, it is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia, despite all these campaign promises, when everything is colorful and beautiful and when you learn a few sentences that Boris Tadic speaks and collects voters' votes, does not worry when needed. We have never received any platform from any government since 2000 on water as the necessary resource for sustainable development. Water as the necessary resource for sustainable development (which is polluting in river streams, we talked about it a little while ago) is something that the whole world has been treating since the 1990s and some years when these problems started to intensify on the entire planet. I remember, back in 1998, the entire plenary debate on the interparliamentary union in Moscow was dedicated to the issue. Here's an example of how a serious and responsible state, such as the state of Cuba, our friendly Latin American, island country, which is in an extremely difficult situation, is concerned about the protection of flora and fauna and the environment and its citizens, although they have decades of sanctions imposed by America and the Western powers that help it. A few days ago (I mentioned it in another context, when it comes to health care) something incredible happened in Cuba – as with us this unhealthy weather and this climate that we have 22 - 23 degrees in November of the month, with them shock, suddenly nine degrees last week, on Wednesday or Thursday. The whole country has risen to its feet because they need to protect both their plant and animal species, but also to protect the citizens. Besides having that accident with those two hurricanes... And that's the question, you know that everything they get from the air comes from these enemies not only Cuba but from all humanity, which is NASA and NATO and all those who work to destroy people who don't want to join them in their campaigns. You see how responsible they are when everyone, from child to oldest, through every state organ, knew what to do that day, raised the whole country to its feet. Here people are suffocating, dying in Pancheva, in other parts of Serbia, we have the erosion of riverbeds, we have polluted rivers, throwing cattle and other waste on rivers... (President: Time. I'm done. I know of the valley of West Morava, because I often visit this neighborhood of my origin, not to mention other parts where the situation is extremely difficult. You don't accept an amendment from a colleague who really had the best intention of at least showing some shift and raising funds to protect the environment. Thank you, and I'm sorry I overstepped these 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6518	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, are you going first? Your group of MPs has seven minutes left, no matter who comes first.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6519	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about the reason for submitting this amendment, I am obliged to report to the public of Serbia, and to inform you also about how to finance environmental protection and what it is that we have legislation. Therefore, funding for environmental protection is made from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, revenue and fees from taxis and donations from international organisations and other states. That sounds pretty nice, but it should be borne in mind that it's only 0.23% out of the budget. From taxis and other revenues, 1.65% of gross national income is allocated, but the environment is 0.05%, donations by international organisations are 0.02%, and then we get that number of 0.23% that is allocated to us for environmental protection. It is known that the minimum of protected areas in Europe is over 8%. Nowhere in Europe there are no countries that have less than 8% of protected areas, and we have burned to a single figure that is less than 6.5%. The attack on a healthy habitat is carried out in several ways: over-cutting forests, deforestation, exploiting this land for agricultural purposes. In recent years, especially in our case, this has been done through the so-called so-called "species". mountain tourism. It's about Old Mountain. The old mountain is protected naturally in the Republic of Serbia and is registered with 1195 species of plants, 203 bird species, over 30 mammal species and more than 50 species of plants representing European value. What are we doing? Instead of guarding and rearing these things, we are going to mountain tourism quite indiscriminately, uncritically, not considering that it is not only our property but the property and all other peoples of Europe; we share that Old Mountain with other republics, with the Republic of Bulgaria. It's not just about the old mountain, it's the same with the bathing suit without talking about wild construction. In the end, a sad fact about the health status of the Serbian population is being observed when this complete state of environmental protection is observed. At this point in the Republic of Serbia, we have information that 24.5% of the water supply is chemically faulty. So it refers to those waters that are controlled, to the city water supply. The question arises as to what is wrong with the rural waters and what is the number of inhabitants who drink chemically, biologically or bacteriologically incorrect water. With this amendment, I proposed that funds from the position of the Republic Water Directorate, 511, where buildings and construction buildings are spoken of, and that position is 708 million, slightly more, down by 80 million, with that reduction not jeopardising this position, but that 80 million, if transferred to nature protection offices, would do a lot for the Republic of Serbia. It just doesn't seem like there's a good will. That goodwill could have been demonstrated by the acceptance of the amendment, and that goodwill could also be expressed by accepting some of the other amendments submitted by the opposition MPs. Obviously there's no dialogue here, so there's no goodwill from the government. I'm sorry... Today Mr Oliver Dulic was on the Committee on Environmental Protection, I read him this amendment and read the government's argument. Now I would not comment, because it would be very ugly, what kind of relations in the government as regards general policy, which side they are pulling, why these amendments are not accepted. This is the government's problem and this will be the starting point of the policy that this government is currently leading, not only on this issue, the issue of environmentalism, there are much more important and fundamental issues in this country, the survival of the state, etc. Therefore, the government's response was that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning did not show the need for additional funds. The Minister of Ecology says the opposite. So here's how this government works. It works in one discrepancy, works on one misunderstanding, and the entire government has no understanding of such important problems. But I call on all MPs, both the opposition and the positions, to put their fingers on their heads in voting day, to think about how important this is, because the living space that we share with other countries and other peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6520	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, welcome to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's hall, we will not be making waves of enthusiasm that you are with us tonight, as the people say - the closer the dawn, the better the guests. Advertising breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 104 and 226. If you have not had the opportunity to follow today's meeting, let me inform you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Finance Minister have violated the Budget System Act. Let me introduce you to the details of this law: On 15 October, the finance minister provides the Government with a draft budget of the Republic of Serbia and financial plans of mandatory social security organisations; on 1 November, the government adopts the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia and delivers it, together with a memorandum, to the National Assembly. The deadlines set out in this article shall be the deadline for the budgetary calendar. Today we heard that the government broke the law and that there are government deadlines and deadlines for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I want to tell you that there are only legal deadlines and I ask you to explain to Mrs Gordani Komic that she did not properly interpret our objections today and that she gave us a notice that was not in line with the law. The Democratic Party of Serbia has warned you for days that there is an opportunity to break the law; we did so on Thursday, and Friday, and today you will not resent us for just confirming it. Today, the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is also at stake, infringing its independence and constitutional position of the Serbian Parliament. We did not ask for the budget to arrive at the Assembly before the deadline, but to arrive in accordance with the legal deadlines, which was November 1st. It is obvious that for you and Minister Diana Dragutinovic there is no crisis, the minister did not favour us today or appear in the Republika Srpska Assembly, she did not appear at all, she did not come. You've been dealing with the Rules of Procedure today, and I suggest you ask fired workers at the Technical Remont Institute in Cačka and in many companies in Serbia whether there is a crisis for them or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6522	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. I had government obligations and one private, extremely personal, obligation, but I followed the meeting as far as possible. Mr. Nikolic, and then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6523	Dear People's MPs, I also report to members 225 and 226, and I also have a need, given that we haven't had a chance to see you today, you came here only about half an hour ago, to inform you that today was the deadline, actually on November 1st, the government was obliged to deliver the draft budget. You, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, are the first among us, therefore, as president of this House, to act on behalf of all MPs on behalf of parliament to submit the draft budget, in accordance with the Budget System Act, by 1 November. You're under attack. When Parliament's president hears from the executive power, compared to the government, it clearly suggests the government's dominant position in relation to parliament. You agree to that, it's your interesting minority; we don't want to agree to that, because it's not good for the state. But that's why you had time to do it at the weekend, and I'll remind you that we worked Friday night and Saturday night... So you gave yourself the right to make a statement that MPs must not block the state. Excuse me, who's blocking the state here? Whether a government that doesn't submit a budget proposal, and you keep quiet about it, but if the MPs go out for this pay phone, they discuss amendments, if it doesn't comply with your prescribed rules that, I don't know, 15 laws end in three days. Then you accuse the opposition MPs of obstructing parliament. Usually, in democratic states, the opposition attacks power, and that's perfectly normal. Something's wrong and something's rotten in the state when the government starts attacking the opposition, which you do. That's what we heard during the 1990s. I want to believe that you've really changed and that you won't do it again, so you won't attack the opposition MPs. You are here saying that Serbian citizens in the future will not forgive the MPs if they, their next particular party interests, obstruct the work of parliament, prevent economic development and European integration of the country. Let me tell you, when I joined the Democratic Party in 1990 and I was one of the founders of the Democratic Party of Serbia in 1992, I was clearly defined for European integration. Don't, please, honor the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia to stop European integration. (President: Time. ) You, as far as I know, are defined for European integration and have become a European only three months ago. So, you know what else you said here - that we're going to do the synchronization... (President: Mr. Nikolic, time. I'm done. Or do you want me to call back? That we will work, that legislative activity in three areas... Be careful, you are provoked because the European Commission has said that the European Parliament is holding back reforms in this country, and that is also an accusation by the authorities. This is where the authorities are going to deal with the opposition in a very irregular and non-democratic way. You say we will work to bring the system in line with European legislation. So much for your knowledge of European values. I want to give you a public lesson here that there is no European legislation, that there is only the legislation of European countries and that the laws differ from country to country in Europe. You know, if you become an instant European, then at least master basic lessons. There is no European legislation. By passing system laws - why don't you suggest them on time? Propose them on time, give them enough time, we can always agree how long it can last and within what time we can discuss these laws. (President: Can you bring the end, please? There won't be any problems. So, you put this Parliament's dignity at risk because we haven't heard a single voice from you, and the government hasn't done its job, the law has prescribed, i.e. She didn't deliver the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6524	Mr. Nikolic, thank you. My information is that last November 30th, the government sent the budget to parliament. Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6525	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, is a big mistake what you just said. I've said that before today. The previous government of Prime Minister Kostunica, which also served as the Democratic Party, violated the Bill on the Budget System, is no excuse for you. Today, that's what your MP Petronijevic said. That's no excuse for you at all. Article 104 has injured the dignity of the Assembly and of all the MPs. I'm asking you to apologize, President, for the statement you made in the media. You can't accuse the opposition's MPs of holding this state back in law-making. The government is holding this country back from law-making because every law we get with a great delay. We got 14 laws yesterday or yesterday to read for Wednesday, and we worked on Friday 14 hours, I don't know how much work we're gonna do today. I ask you to apologize to all MPs in the assembly. We don't break and stop anything. What Mr Djelic said, I must say, which has repeatedly lied to the public in this country - we will join the European Union then and then, that we will sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement then and then, that a trade agreement with Europe will be activated then and then, nothing happened. And he's gonna teach us a lesson so we can stop something? In the last term, Mr. Djelic was Deputy Prime Minister, the man had 30 and some advisers, the arrogant ones, and he will teach us lessons. We sit here, we read, we work, we write amendments, we want to fix something. Please warn those who earn. That's your vice president's manners, so I'm asking you to give a warning to that messenger who throws it away. The obstruction is when the government doesn't give a budget bill in time. The obstruction is when the government doesn't give the budget rebalancing law in time. Why don't you say it out loud - we're waiting for the IMF to tell us. Great, I'd like to say hello. They're going to line up this wasteful government. But I'm afraid there won't be any effect after talking to them, that they will again boast the vice-presidents of the government, Dinkic and Djelic, will spread in their ministries. But you're the most responsible here. I'm not getting into where you've been, I assume you've been doing things that are described by the President of the Assembly. You don't have to sit here all the time, although I prefer it when you sit down, at least all MP groups can agree on a way to work with you. But you have to apologize to the MPs, you've really offended us. We work here and work at the pace the government delivers to us. It is your duty, President, to protect the National Assembly, not to serve the government. The government should serve us, we chose her, or you, but the congregation chose her. I once again ask you to apologize to the MPs, because you have really offended us by what you said in the interview, I believe that you stand behind it - that we are holding back the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6526	Mr. Maras, the government was required, by law, to submit the draft budget to Parliament by 1 November. The fact is, we are obliged to bring the budget by December 15th. My powers are within the authority of the Assembly and I can promise that we here will do everything possible to do our job as soon as the budget is delivered. I suppose I speak for you and for myself. As for the apology, whenever any MP feels hurt, I apologize to him. Don't write to me, but if you want, write a sentence I need to say. If I hurt any MPs, I'm always ready to say sorry, even if it's not well understood what I said. Here, that's what I'm doing right now. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nikolic answered, then Šormaz. I thought we agreed on all this, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6527	For the sake of the public, to be extremely precise, the Law on the Budgetary System in Article 14, which speaks about the budget calendar, writes, I will tell you precisely, by 15 October, that the Minister is delivering to the Government the draft budget of the Republic and the financial plans of the mandatory social security organisations, etc., so that the finance minister is obliged to make the budget, to bring it into line with the other ministries and to deliver it to parliament on the basis of such harmonisation. So, to be extremely precise, you say that, as far as you think, last year hasn't been delivered in time. Yes, it was not done by then by the finance minister, the current prime minister - Mr Cvetkovic. But that's why the government was targeted by Vojislav Kostunica, because it was not a good government and it was not an effective government. I know there's no such thing as a government, thank God Vojislav Kostunica, so there's no need to rush you, but this is one first, a fundamental sign that this government will collapse on its own, and very soon. So, we're discussing rebalancing, it's November 3rd, you're making us work until the first morning, who knows when the budget will arrive. The governor says it's better if I don't know how late the budget is, just that it's a good budget. Your budget will be in total, absolute contrast to budget rebalancing. You have pre-election promises, you've cheated on the citizens, now you can't make it happen. What is also important, this parliament has not been able to adopt any resolution on Kosovo and Metohija since its founding. So this parliament is not seriously treating its citizens and Serbia as a state. It's a shame. It is a shame that MPs do not come to the meetings of the Kosovo and Metohija committee and spoil the quorum. Is that what you said in that interview -- that MPs can't block the state? Here, I'll agree with you now. But that's what government deputies do when it comes to the Eulex mission and when it comes to the country's adequate response to Kosovo and Metohija and declared independence in Kosovo and Metohija. So, MPs, and you're the president, and you chair these MPs, and you represent those MPs. Then remember, does someone tell you, did someone tell you -- you know, the European Commission will speak negatively about the work of parliament, then you better rather give a statement that parliament, in line with what Minister Djelic said, is a black hole. It is nowhere in the world, nor in Europe, that a minister is expressed in this way about parliament. You keep quiet about it, instead of telling that Minister Djelic -- you don't have the right to talk. You should protect this Parliament. I thought you'd protect us, but you don't. So, to make things clear, the work of the Assembly or, as you formulate, whoever blocks the state is MPs of the position, not the opposition. We're doing our job, and the government is largely on the most important task, and that's the budget, and it's also blocking the state right now. MPs do nothing and do nothing to remind the government what she's doing. Then who's responsible in this country? You are responsible, and that silence of yours on these matters tells me to repeat, the dominant position of the executive authority over the legislative one. That's not good. There were parliamentary presidents here after 2000 who knew they were protecting the integrity of this parliament. And whenever that's the case... I won't count, I won't tell you who he is, he's not a member of the DSS, but he had DSS support back then, because he was protecting the integrity of this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6528	Labour efficiency is one way to raise our levels of domination, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Shormaz has the word, so you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6529	Also under Article 104. President, I think, of course, you're the ones who caused what's going on right now, first of all, with your statement. You gave some kind of apology after what the MP Marash said; I am hurt by your statement, but I do not accept your apology. I think you should say in the same way that you made a statement, so, in front of the cameras and the means of public information, you say that you were wrong, to protect Parliament's integrity in such a way and to warn the government that it was late. I guarantee you, I was an MP in that assembly of parliament, so that, although it belonged to the parliamentary majority, let's say, Predrag Markovic as president of the National Assembly at the time would do so. And here's the thing that you SPS suddenly became, as our people would say, Euromercalia, overnight, suddenly you became Eurofanatics bigger than DS, and all of a sudden it's acceptable for you, but in words. In words, but when it comes to the candidate for director of the railways, the man who carried the money bags in Cyprus, by his own admission, at the time of Slobodan Milosevic, is a witness at the trial of Mihal Kertes. This is the European Serbia promised by the Democratic Party, which said that if they don't win everything else goes into the dark, everything else leads to the 1990s, and then a man from the 1990s -- candidate for director of the Railways of Serbia. It's this new Euroentusism that you bring and then you give us a lecture. You know, at a time when we were the parliamentary majority, again I'm telling you, the 266 laws have been passed, everyone by the European Union has been praised. The same term drew the constitution, three resolutions on Kosovo and Metohija, many decisions on the choice of judges, the resolution of judges, the decision on immunity. The opposition voted for no number of these laws and was a more peaceful situation than in this assembly of parliament. You can work, but you need to know you're working. Can't work if the government is always late with the bill's proposals, em sends bad laws into the procedure. It's normal to have a lot of amendments. I said, 900 amendments are coming to the budget in Poland. 84 came to you and you say the opposition is obstructing. That's completely pointless. The opposition is doing its job, and you're obviously not capable of doing it the right way. And there is no need for you to apologize to us here, but to tell the Serbian public that you have made a mistake and protect parliament from an irresponsible government that is late with the most important law, with a budget for next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6530	I didn't apologize to you. Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 84 - the dignity of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We've been having a debate all day about imposing work on this House. According to the proposals of the laws that come to us daily, which we need to discuss, we see that the Serbian government simply imposes parliament, and in no way does parliament control the Serbian government, which would be normal. Looking at parliament's work, not to mention statements that the opposition is obstructing this parliament, which is untrue, watching parliament's work, especially for the last two or three months, we see that it's in a hurry somewhere, going downhill, something pushing through to the muscles. This is not good either because of the laws themselves, or the legal projects that we adopt here, and it is not good for MPs to prepare and professionally talk about the proposed laws. We have seen a proposal for the next session of the National Assembly, which is scheduled for 5 November at 12:00 hours; in addition to the proposal for a set of law on justice (I have some understanding, there are several points connected, and there are 14), we have proposals of many laws that have nothing to do with this set of laws; it goes in line to paragraph 14, which is the proposal of the Law on Associations. Mladjan Dinkic has wanted to break our law on associations for two years, and beyond that there is much to hide, which may not have been able to break through and go through previous legal projects; above all it is about NGOs, sects and who knows what, you will see it when you read this bill, a proposal. If the MP is receiving this set of 14 laws today, I think it's hard to prepare for work in an incomplete 40 hours. It is also a great deal for this G17-plus expert group that boasts that they know a lot and that they are experts, and we see that their proposals go directly to the detriment of Serbian citizens. For this reason, I would like to inform the public that this Parliament is working on the arm, working outside the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. That's why the opposition has the right to rebel and we have the right to ask that legal projects be delivered to us in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6532	I was obliged to propose all these laws that you spoke of, including item 14, to the Assembly. The agenda will be passed by MPs. I simply had to respect the Rules of Procedure and continue the procedure that began the moment the laws arrived here, and the agenda would be declared by the MPs at the session. Whether the law you spoke of will enter the agenda of this session is up to you. Member of the 5th Sections 15 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6533	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have submitted the amendment for several reasons precisely to the funds they have defined in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. (President: Mr. Maras, excuse me, just to meet the MPs, however, that Minister Jasna Matic is here among us and Mr. Maras has spoken to her. ) It's great that there's one of the government's representatives, but I really don't know how the Minister of Telecommunications could give us answers to the questions we're asking here, we haven't yet come to the issue of impulse collection and phone subscription. I think it's incorrect for the government not to be Minister of Finance, Prime Minister or Minister of Economy and Regional Development here. I have submitted an amendment to this division, when it comes to the funds identified for this ministry, for a number of reasons. First, on behalf of the LDP, we pointed out that when the government was formed and when the Ministry Act was passed, it was the most massive ministry. Of course, after all, we also saw the number of state secretary, assistant. We have heard one inaccuracy from MPs G17 through the media, that it is not true that Mr Dinkic has six state secretaries, 11 assistants. However, this information was on the government website. But that wouldn't be a problem if that ministry contributed to something to this country. Right, Mr. Krasic, it only contributes to enormous spending, boastful spending. Look, just for ski resorts in the Republic of Serbia's budget this year, 15m euros were allocated. It is a sum that would justify that the state of Serbia is the country in which we should upgrade the good life we have. Unfortunately, we're not in that situation. Citizens are not in such a situation, citizens are witnessing daily gatherings or announcements of gatherings that are not in single-digit percentages, but are expressed in dozens of percent. We tried, when the debate was in principle, and when it comes to the debate on details, to point out the complete illogicality of raising pensions through budget rebalancing, which we welcome, but also to spend the funds on the unfavor, i.e. that public spending is extremely high. We think there are ministries that can safely cut off funds, which are incredibly large. I underline, for that, the ministry's budget is projected to be 35 or 36 billion. We don't really think there's any excuse anymore that there's a Ministry of National Investment Plan. Like this, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which I was talking about, and the NIP ministry has a large number of projects that either don't start or don't end or, as the government itself said, are late with the implementation of certain projects. Often these projects are intertwined, i.e. the work of the ministries is intertwined, and we think that, as the president of the assembly would say, is slowing down, holding the country's progress. We have an item I'd really like someone to explain to me. Unfortunately, I don't think there's anyone here to explain it right now, but I would like to insist that the next item be abolished, which is that five million are allocated to grants to NGOs by the NIP, or the ministry. I'd really like someone to explain what it is, what kind of donations the NIP gives to NGOs? You have cases that a variety of items are made possible through various items, I'm not going to say spending funds in an illegal way, but spending resources that have no justification. I'd really like someone to explain to me, and I've also consulted my colleagues about whether they have any idea what this represents, what this means -- five million dinars go to NGOs in terms of a variety of donations. And in the last few days, I've been talking about some unreasonable spending by the NIP. It is interesting that both the NIP and every ministry that has a terribly large budget, with no justification, are in the hands of a party. I can understand this political group that wants to control money flows, however, the problem is that they are allowed to do so. You're gonna have a lot of problems. I'm sure you're also aware that through these two ministries there is a fantastic concentration of power and power in the hands of a political party, that is, their president. In the election campaign, we witnessed all sorts of promises, which everyone understood couldn't come true. I'm always undermining it. What's worse than unreal promises, it's an attempt to make it come true. So, spending, spending, unreasonable spending. You're asking our citizens to tighten the belt. Of course we MPs are not in the same situation as pensioners who have eight, ten, twenty or thirty thousand, all of this is petty, but we are also affected by these gatherings, and we are particularly affected by the arguments of these gatherings. Also, this Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has a, uh, retail, vice-presidential post that matches this ministry. That's what we were talking about. Our wish was to abolish this vice-presidential cabinet, for the simple reason that it is again a pile of employees, which is an attempt to maximise the power of whoever controls finance in this country, or whoever controls the projects that need to be realized, which, unfortunately, cost the taxpayers and citizens of the country above all. We really don't see any improvement. I believe that everyone in this room would most like to make a deal with the Fiat to make a improvement on this country, to be new jobs, and, of course, we would applaud the one who can do such a thing. Of course we'd like it not to be a lonely example. Every time something like that happens, of course everyone will say hello, if it's really what it is. We have a reasonable suspicion that we don't believe in such a thing. The same man promised thousands of euros to citizens based on actions. Now we come into a situation where, and not just him from the government, he will not be able to fulfill his promises, as the ace of ten, as the elderly would say, this economic global crisis is coming. But we also have an objection here because the reaction of those who run this state, i.e. executives and governors, was not adequate, was quite slow, and, according to us from the LDP, I'm afraid, all the conventions will be felt during 2009 and 2010. I really feel a lot of relief sometimes when I see that the government refuses some amendment, for the simple reason that I know that those who reject it know that it's reasonable, they know that it's economically justified, but they don't want to accept it because they would resent one of the coalition partners. I call on you, December will come soon, the budget will come before the MPs, I call on the President of the Assembly to do everything to get the budget at least ten days before the debate and not to be like the last two times - we get it on Friday afternoon, and on Monday we should discuss it and write amendments, etc. I also invite you in this budget, if we are already delaying his arrival in the National Assembly in front of MPs because negotiations with the IMF are ongoing, respect the IMF's suggestions, for the simple reason that their task is to try to cut public spending that is really big here. We don't know what kind of epilogue the talks they're having today led Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Krkobic, have they tried to influence him when it comes to pensions, have they tried to take down what he said the other day. We would like, first of all, to put pressure on those ministers who are laudingly spending money, who are hoarding up their state apparatus, who, like these two ministries, are trying to realise projects that they themselves know at first that will not be realised or that their realization will come far beyond what is foreseen. Once again, I underline that we of the LDP consider the NIP ministry unnecessary. We believe that the funds are being misdirected through it, misusing and that the projects in charge of the NIP Ministry, which it approves and everything else, are not projects that bring about a better, or that end in time, that I do not now repeat what I said. We also believe that this ministry, as we wrote in the amendment, does not need such funds from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, especially not so much funding for Serbia's ski resorts. The fact that Minister Dinkic likes to ski, it's great, but it doesn't have to work at the expense of Serbian citizens. I'm sure you all remember the presidential election campaign -- wherever there was a car crash and where there was snow, that's where Mladjan Dinkic appeared and promised to build a cable car, that there would be hotels there. I think you have to do everything you can to contain him. The citizens are suffering. I have colleagues from the DSS sitting next to me, and I know how long they were in power, according to their story, suffered Mr Dinkic and all his whims, who really cost the citizens of this country a lot. All you can do is make this vice-presidential seat for Mr Dinkic and those funds amounting to a few dozen million dinars for this year do not exist. That's the cost of this country. Last time I spoke to Mr. Pensioners here from the assembly pay phone, they nodded their heads -- to blackmail when it comes to this budget rebalance, to erase that vice president's seat, there'll be more money for pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6534	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Stevanović, then Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on this amendment and I would certainly like to take advantage of, in that context, and my right to the Rules of Procedure to receive one notice or one information from the Government's representatives. Madam Minister won't mind me, I wish someone else was here, I think they'd be more competent to give us some answers, but, well, anyway, I'm talking to the government. Mr. Marash has brought here a series of facts which, I would say, correspond to the truth. They concern the cost of certain ministers and ministries, which, of course, refers primarily to Mr Dinkic, once Minister of the Ministry of Regional Development, today's Deputy Prime Minister. This was a story that one of the fellow MPs from New Serbia brought to you this morning. What is amazing is the fact that the government representative who was sitting there at the time, Mr Milosavljevic, did not react, there was no reaction. Of course, I did not expect Mr. Milosavljevic to be worried, but he could at least be interested in the facts that Mr. Mojsilovic presented. The matter specifically refers to a greenfield investment that is also a failure and a result of the boastful behaviour, notably Minister Dinkic and then Minister for the NIP of Mr Gilas. The thing wouldn't have been scandalous if the top state officials hadn't gotten involved in that story at the time, but the justification for such a thing was the fact that it was in the middle of an election campaign or in the function of some of the election campaigns we've had for the past year, year and a half. Fifteen months ago, you could hear this this morning, both these high-ranking state officials came to Vranje and laid a rock foundation for this, according to European standards, a greenfield investment for the Zamber textile factory in Vranje and the citizens of Vranja promised 3000 jobs. Today, 15 months after all of this half of the roof structure was taken away, the contractor remained short of about a million euros. As far as we could hear, the state spent about three million euros in that investment. It's stopped now, half the structure was taken away, the rest of it, or the other half grew into grass and weeds, and nothing. In the whole story, SIEPA was involved, also the agency on the back of the state; what's the point of being I don't know, the effects are obvious, specifically in Vranje. I can understand that Mr. Milosavljevic received a percentage of the votes in Vranj. After that, we've produced results like you've never done before in Vranje. That's what gave effect at that moment, but what now? Is there any responsibility, if not for the authorities at the time, show at least a little European preference or, if you don't, let the prosecution, as you said today, Mrs. Kolundjia, since they'll have some other things to do with their work, these dealings, and it wouldn't be bad for them to give some answers. I will specifically ask the government's representative for answers on account of the fact that the investment has been stopped, that the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget have been spent in vain. Secondly, I'm interested, regardless of these partner relations that the state and with who, how many countries have been damaged in this regard and whether any of the representatives of the government from the previous call, who have been involved and responsible and appeared down there, will answer and account for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6536	Mr. Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6537	The government's response to the amendment that was filed by a colleague, Marash, is indeed... This type of response to a number of amendments we have submitted is repeated. I have already said in the afternoon debate on the amendment that I have submitted, for example, to transfer money from the ski resort to the Army of the Republic of Serbia; a similar answer was for the amendment. Here, look at what it says: "Amendment is not accepted for the reasons that certain appraisals whose reduction is already proposed in the past period, in a larger amount than the amount proposed by the amendment. "In other words, money was spent before the rebalancing. What we're saying all the time is that, in fact, the rebalancing needs to patch up the holes, the paperwork, for what's already been spent, and that wasn't the basis of the adopted budget. Not that it's not a European standard, it has nothing to do with... It's a Central African standard, maybe it's not theirs either, it has nothing to do with European standards, nothing. Not to mention that part that we practically caught in the debate (if the prosecution is already mentioned, I think that the prosecution should deal with it) which is that the Department of Joint Affairs, which deals with the administration, the bureaucratic government, has spent almost 800 million dinars more than the budget provided for, and now the rebalancing is being complemented. But how could the Joint Affairs Authority spend so much money more? Is there a law on public procurement? Did they obtain needed office material for the government more than was foreseen by the budget? How did they call those tenders? How did they do that? Or they hire more people, and then they pay for it, and then there's no pension money. The IMF must convince Krkobic of something he was told by the DSS on the days we thought we were negotiating the formation of the government, and they simulated negotiations on official negotiations, and during that time we negotiated with the Democratic Party in holes and pubs. Then they made a government that couldn't keep its promises. We said then -- there's no way, people, that Serbia can take it, let's see how, if it can, how. He can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't. He can't and now the IMF has to convince Krkobic of what Kostunica told him six months ago. At the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the IMF and the World Bank put Serbia first in reform in the region, first. Now we're who knows where. So, there's something wrong with your European story, and we're back again... I set that example of a candidate for the director of the railroad. It seems that, contrary to promises, the better life, the dark if I don't win, really, a little bit, we're still going back to the '90s, but the opposite of what was promised. Here, for the NIP, a man is looking for a cut in money. How is it that when it's written the same way, it's spent in advance? But when it's spent in advance, where's the bypass? The 15th -- it's gone, the 16th -- it's gone, the 20th -- it's gone, and Mrkonjic regularly tours the construction sites, like in the '90s, when he was Slobin's director for renovation, and he drags investors by the hands, contractors, and he says "tell me when it's over," and he says "wait till I see it," and then "then it'll be over" and the man says "then it'll be over" and it won't be over. I've been involved in politics and in the 1990s, I've been arrested 17 times by the same regime, I know what I'm talking about, I've followed well what they've been doing, and I've followed well what they're doing. As in the 1990s, they went on an empty tour and did not finish, even now. When will the bypass be ready? Euromeracles promise, but there's nothing out of promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6538	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted the amendment, with correction, to section 5, sections 15 and 20. The Government and the Financial Committee did not accept the amendment, with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, does not comply with Article 5(7). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6539	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, I am very sorry that the government has not adopted these amendments, because I think they are of great benefit to Serbia's future. Interestingly, the government has not adopted any of the 80 and some of the proposed amendments. If someone were to look at the side, they would say that we have honey and milk flowing, that there is no economic crisis in the world, that Serbia is buzzing from foreign investment, that all foreign companies are coming here, that Fiat is opening up one 19 factories, that everyone is taking pictures in some pre-election arrangement, but unfortunately, the reality, especially for the citizens of Serbia, is quite different. First, this budget rebalance is the result of a coalition deal. I must mention once again that I have no objection to the finance minister, because she was forced here to do it in order to satisfy coalition appetites and thus help this illogical coalition that was created, the most massive government today, with the largest number of ministries in Europe. I just want to tell Mrs. Secretary, whom I highly appreciate, I appreciate her professionalism, her integrity, and I ask you to pass on to her, although she's not here, that she will have no justification for the budget. Here she has it, but if she accepts that the budget meets the crazy ideas of various coalition partners about increasing pensions to 70% of the average salary, building 11 new ski resorts, if she supports the government of the Republic of Serbia's entrepreneurship, because some ministers have not satisfied some of their ambitions in youth to deal with business, corporate business, so they decided to go into business when they're ministers, but to use the government and its money... We are the only ones, I have to repeat that because of the citizens of Serbia, the only government in the world that enters private business with private companies in the automotive industry. And that today, when many try to pull their actions, those who have actions of the automotive industry sell shares, look how much they fall on the stock market. Two weeks ago, a trade in Fiat was stopped on the Italian Stock Exchange for the first time in history. The sale of the shares of many others is halted, but that is logical, this is the result of the economic crisis. The government of the Republic of Serbia is the only one in the world going into business with private investors in the automotive industry. I know that at least half the ministers are surprised by this government move, but they have to vote for the survival of this coalition. It is surprising that 99% of economists in the Republic of Serbia are investing in this illogical investment -- that we invest 250m euros in a business with a private company in the automotive industry. I want to repeat once again, "Fiat" is welcome in Serbia, all foreign companies are welcome, but here you are, like anywhere in the world, like in the European Union, number one -- Greenfield Investment, or number two - privatisation. That's what all European countries do, and that's how all airlines do it. No, in Serbia it's different. We're completely different, we're doing business, the government has nothing else to do. She won't create a business environment, as she should, but decided to start a business. Do you know what's most important? No business plan. No one's ever seen a business plan. I know there was no business plan in the government. At the government meeting, when the decision was made, there was no business plan. Just to inform you, in the EU for all investments over 100m euros, for incentives, when some European countries or the EU give incentives over 100m euros, the European Commission must be granted approval. It would be logical for us if someone received subsidies of over 50 million or if we took as Europe over 100m euros to approve the Serbian Parliament. Has anyone in the Serbian Parliament discussed the "Fiat"? No one's ever spoken. Did you see the contract? The key elements of the contract are not visible on the Government website. Generally, we need to create, the state is in charge of creating an environment for incentives. I agree, "Fiat" or any other investor needs to be released from taxes for ten years, they need to be given excellent infrastructure, they need to be given various other incentives, of course, parallel to even regional development, that others have the same incentive. We need to give everything the state can and let every private company, welcome, business. We've made it possible for U.S. Steel, Telenor, everyone, and they've done well, they've invested money, they've created jobs, and we're giving the Fiat more subsidies than anywhere in Europe. To add one more thing, in the EU subsidies can reach a maximum of 15% of the investment. We want to join the EU, and we give 35% boost to investment. Are we so rich that we can do it? I'm asking if the same incentives will be given to "The First Five-year-old", "The Utva" from Pancheva, "Cruik", "Viscoza" from Loznica, EI "Nish", "14th October", "The Dragon", IMT? These companies I've listed employ 150,000 workers. Whether their workers feel it or not, that's a big question. I think the main problem with this government in this segment that I've been talking about is an absolute lack of understanding of the reality that we're in, that they're investing this much money in a business with private companies today. What's most important, the government must not be an entrepreneur. Since the time Margaret Thatcher is the premise of every country's successful business. The government should only create extraordinary environments and incentives for investment to foreign investors, and entrepreneurship should not be engaged. I'll repeat what I said. Instead of the Privatisation Agency, as this government has begun, we will soon need a state-owned asset management agency. I have no doubt it will be some sort of fixation of some ministers within this coalition. Of course, I'm accusing the government, but there are good individuals in this government. As a team, the government is working without any plan, not realizing the real circumstances in which we are. The government of the Republic of Serbia also allocates an amount of 300m dinars, at this time, for the enterprise of individuals in the tourism business. I can't believe that either. All over the world, there are private companies involved in the tourist business. Everywhere in the world, ski resorts are, I'll repeat it twenty, thirty times, owned or owned by private companies or municipalities. That's what the state does for us. That's something you can't see. I must say that I speak regularly with diplomats both in Serbia and with politicians from EU countries, from America and Russia, believe me, everyone wonders about this. Everyone realizes this was the cost of forming this coalition. I repeat what else was the price of forming this coalition, one big scam that took place – I ask the finance minister that when making the budget, if already in the rebalancing, she was not responsible for it, protect her professional integrity and do not allow this madness of promises – pensions that will reach a level of 70% of the average salary. It's a lie, it's a scam. I don't have another word. Whoever says, here I call him to any intellectual duel on this issue, that pensions will reach 70% of the average salary; let's see where it exists in the world and see where that money comes from. It doesn't exist. I know people in the government are laughing at this proposal, too. All foreign economists coming to talk here, and the IMF, will probably give you the most intense criticism on this matter. You tricked the pensioners. The pre-election promise, it really helped you, you probably got the election based on that promise, that pensions would come to that level of 70% is one of the biggest frauds that happened. I responsibly claim to this speaker that it will never happen. I'd like someone to rephrase it to me, but with economic arguments, not political or pre-election. In Serbia, pensions will never reach that level of 70%. It was a scam. Like the scam was that people would get 1,000 euros per share. The people invested in action, bought action. Unfortunately, they promised to grow the stock market. The stock market is down. They have promised 1,000 euros to win for these actions, five million people have entered those actions. What happened? Now they're saying it's the economic crisis. Oh, come on, everybody knew... The economic crisis, to inform you, did not begin in October. The economic crisis started in America in 2007. Whoever was doing the reading of professional magazines or just following up on what was going on knew that this crisis would take place in Europe in a very short time. I'd just like to add that there's one area that this government really fails, and that's science. There, here, the Minister of Telecommunications, I hope she feels the same way that I do when I see that we have the least separation for science from all the countries in Europe. In the European Union, this separation for science is at least 3% of the gross social product, and we are at 0.5%. Madam Minister, please, you don't have to be here in the Assembly, but you can go to the government, because you're coming from that branch that's very important for science, so help change it at least in the budget for next year, because this is really a failure of scientific research in Serbia. We will become the scientific research colony of some countries. I think that's what this is about. Let's just say, take an example of the Fiat. In that contract with the Fiat, we analyzed it in detail, and it's said that the Fiat will hire new workers. That's not true. "Fiat" will hire, and these aren't new jobs, they're jobs for people who will stay there to work, 2400 workers. It doesn't say anything about the number of engineers. The Czech Republic and Slovakia, when Folkswagen entered there, had to guarantee that much of the scientific research work would remain in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. It means there'll be so many engineers left. What's a brand of Serbia? What we're recognizable for is scientific research. Serbian engineers, scientists, doctors work in all European companies. I've got a couple of colleagues who graduated from Engineering with me and are now leading engineers at Mercedes, Folkswagen, etc. It's just that these people are leaving. Why are they leaving? Because there's no research here. Well, we stand out 0.5% of gross social product. Scientific research has been absolutely underestimated, and believe me, there is Serbia's greatest potential -- in knowledge. I think that this way we send a very bad message to all young students what to do – they should go to other countries, which stand out six or seven times as much for science as they do for us. Without good science, we won't have a good production. We will become an ordinary colony to serve the great world corporations. By changing this relationship as I proposed with the amendment, with greater isolation, which is not a major item, much smaller than the separation for "Fiat" or ski resorts, we would get much greater potential for developing scientific research in the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I just want to say, I have no doubt that this rebalancing will pass, but this is a great pity for the Republic of Serbia. At a time when all European countries, all countries in the world are reducing public spending, we are the only country that increases public spending. In this way we meet the coalition appetites of the parties that are in power today. Believe me, it's not good for you or for all of us together if we go on like this. If this rebalancing goes through, it'll still be less damage. But if, on the budget, Madam Minister, the prime minister and all ministers don't stop these crazy ideas of individual ministers and their coalition promises, I think it will be a big problem for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and I predict a major economic crisis next year. I hope, however, that the government will understand in some way, and the majority here in the Assembly, that these things must end, because without Serbia's economic development, we do not have a political future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6540	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6541	I must say, I like these two amendments. Why the heavy heart? When I spoke a few years ago, you all attacked me, so I got a lawsuit from Mladjan Dinkic. You were not sued by Mladjan Dinkic, I was sued. For the same words you just said here. Very simple and simple. Remember, last year I warned you from this pay phone, and in November I asked 50 questions to the government, then you were in that government, to answer some questions; my answers were necessary for court proceedings. He sued me as a MP for what I said from this pay phone. What did I say - who broke into the National Bank? Second sentence - where is the money from Cyprus? "Where is the money from Cyprus" is not my place, but I was quoting what Zoran Djindjic said. I got the lawsuit. I had to collect the paperwork, 600-700 pages, show that there was no insult, no slander, no violation of personality rights, and that it did not belong to the damages. He sued me for 10 million dinars. Where did I get 10 million dinars, 120,000 euros? He's a man used to big numbers. He's used to large numbers and, behold, Mr. Popovic has shown a good mental state here, a man wants to play. In his early years, he probably had some problems, couldn't achieve some successes as puberty, as a musician, and later as an economist, etc. I don't want to talk about his biography right now. When he reached that percentage here, he became a grasshopper in the government, and there's nothing without him. Now, let me go into the world of numbers, so you let the minister know, because she likes to talk numbers. She's probably resting after Friday and that debate. What is the characteristic of these two amendments submitted by Mr. Maras and Mr. Popovic? They draw our attention to Section 15, Section 5, where this ministry is located, but one and the other tie it to another ministry. Mr Popovic for the Ministry of Science and Mr Maras for the Ministry of National Investment Plan. However, it is characteristic that for all our amendments that have been submitted here, the answer is identical, and this can be defined - your amendments are not legally possible. Because this government has already spent everything written in rebalancing and you don't have to suggest anything anymore, you just need to raise your hand to legalize what's being spent. Now the public in Serbia needs to know why we're saying this, to draw attention to that someone has already spent money without a budget rebalancing, even those money they didn't take and that the government didn't provide. That's why this is a rebalance where there's talk of an increase in deficits, because there's no other one. You can change the hoods, you can wear the crates, you can wear the bags, you can do whatever you want, but that's the end of the story. We didn't finish the story of burning down the Federal Assembly, we didn't finish the story of breaking into the National Bank of Serbia (although, he missed the building first, so from the second booze hit the National Bank), we didn't finish the story of the money from Cyprus, we didn't finish the story with Cvetkovic, he was an alpha and omega privatization with Vlahovic. Well, Vlahovic wondered, but this one was in charge. Anyone who criticises the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget and rebalancing, that something bad is foreseen, etc., he criticises the prime minister. He was the finance minister a few months ago. When he was elected, he said – disaster, people, we didn't sell anything, the budget broke. It used to be this primary show, now other techniques are how to take something that doesn't exist and delay the return for some future generations. When it was on the agenda of the Law on Public Skiing, we criticized him that it couldn't be like that. Some others were in the government then and they said - yes. It's a good thing they remembered now that they couldn't do it. But it was my fault back then, and now it's my fault again. How's that? Come on, explain to me how. Just because there's always about 126. Since 2000, all governments have been built on this principle. The first government was 17, 18, 19, so hold, one here, the other there; then Svilanovic was also a disaster. No snow, no ski resort. Probably within the framework of this ski resort company there is also an item - the production of snow. Because how else can you justify this? There are some standards: if it's 1600 meters up, they can ski resorts, if it's less than 1600 meters - there's no ski resort; you can see which side it is, etc. But they bought the Old Mountain. Do you know that? They bought some who had opportunities in the Književec municipality to buy, the peasants could not traffic there; now they released traffic for several months, they bought and now they have to win power in Književec to legalize what was pulled. As you can see, there is no citizen of the Republic of Serbia, no interest whatsoever. There are only unfulfilled desires and unfulfilled ambitions. Maras asked what economic classification 481 meant within the Ministry of the National Investment Plan - a grant to NGOs. What kind of NGO is this in the National Investment Plan? There are also ministries that have this economic classification -- grants to NGOs. What's behind that? But we have no one to talk to. You see, the government -- it's gone, the government -- it's gone, sometimes there's a minister, we can't make mistakes about the soul, how whoever comes dear to me, what he's asking for his job. The other day, she was this minister, that poor girl, she collected that math, and she waited only for the day for this crowd to get away. Where's the Prime Minister? Where's the President of the Republic? So we're talking about them. How is it possible to spend something that does not exist and there is no law that approves of that consumption? Now you understand, ever since democracy came, there hasn't been a final bill of any kind, there isn't. They won't file reports. But there's media services, you drive there, and we'll talk there. About what? What's gonna be the main thing? The main subject - someone from The Hague ordered suicide, murder, blood will fall, this will fall, that will fall. The sea, the citizens of Serbia, don't read it, follow only the National Assembly, here you will hear what is true. Shut down those other television channels, just watch the National Assembly transfer. That's where you hear the truth. You've heard about this Fiat, you've heard about these free campaigns. And? Doesn't it seem to you that what's going on in the system - the worse, the better? Here, this government so understands-- the worse, the better. In a world of great economic crisis, they worry about the whole world. They saved Serbia, so now they're worried about the whole world. Now the people need to be complicit in their aggravation. Well, that's something terrible. It's something absolutely scary. What's been sold over the last few years, seven-eight, bamboo? Everything. Who? Foreigners. Well, people, find one of our men, a gesture, a peasant, get him off some mountain, find him an empty location and give him the benefits you gave to foreign investors. He'll be twice as successful as these strangers, twice as successful. But you've tightened the Serbian so he can't breathe, he can't serve neither taxes nor contributions. If he wants to serve it and make a little money to survive, he's got to go underground, and you're after him. And you're legalizing crime to strangers, literally, legalizing crime. People, this Italian guy, when he came to sign, he came in a torn sweater. He was ashamed to wear a suit. Someone brought him in here, signed it to trick voters, we'll take Kragujevac, we'll take this, there'll be voices, everything will be fine, until the next scam. So that you may not be the victims of the next fraud, watch direct transmissions of the National Assembly session and read the paper as little as possible, because here you hear the truth, and there is no one to replicate, there is no one. There are no government representatives, they have to keep quiet, they watch if they can finish this law by 11am, they're counting, I guess about 11 viewers are going to fall asleep, or there's going to be a movie, or they're going to go on the TV "The Bridge", maybe there's something more interesting, so they won't watch this, but it's no longer interesting for the Serbian citizens because the spine and the navel have merged. It's not interesting anymore. Now they want to put a line, to underline the account, plus, plus, plus, minuses, minuses, minuses and make a balance. Saldo says fraud. Who's good in this country? A small group of people. How can you recognize them? They own media, media agencies, they own some, allegedly, successful private firms, and they spread. Who else lives well? There's no such thing. Whoever wants to wave a little with them gets some grains to be satisfied. So how do we do it? So round. How long? Until he cracks the pumpkin completely, literally, until he cracks the pumpkin completely. Is it clear to you now that the leader is in the pit? In a pit, fell in a hole, didn't see. Are we going to notice that the leader doesn't see? He doesn't see a leader. Here's his Eulex. Where are our borders? Where's our army? Where's our police? Take any segment. When the state collapses, it's not just one piece, it's all stagnating. It's totally stagnating. Can that be lifted by lies and fraud? He can't. There's a certain time when a bill needs to be paid. Therefore, citizens, you have opportunities and now in the local elections in these four municipalities to believe first of all yourself, to your sense of truth and to fight for yourself and for your family, for your children and not to let those who have verified you repeatedly gain your trust, regardless of whether they swore in church, wrote some oaths etc. Who once lies, one who cheats, one who steals, always does, and we have about one such coalition government that's been broken down by the vaults, by the feuds. I didn't mean to read these numbers to you on purpose, how much this Dinkic ministry took away money, strategic positions and conditioned everything. The exact same situation is with every ministry, so don't realize it's just Dinkic. No, take the defense, take the inside jobs, take this orthopedic of yours, which leads to spatial planning and the environment - expert. Preparation of a law that will change the whole concept of spatial planning and building building land. Do you know whose concept it changes? That woodsman of yours, who paints mustaches, who hasn't designed a garage in his life. He introduced a law on spatial planning here, the best, in 30 days you get permission, everything is arranged -- building land, land return. You're changing your regulations now, and now you're trying to tell us again -- and that's epic. The first time was epochal, and now, the second time also epochal, and the opposite is mutual. Watch the National Assembly sessions, monitor the transmission, because only here can you hear the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6542	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 15 and 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? The word has the People's MP Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6543	Madam President, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that I have submitted reads: "In article 5, division 15 - Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, function 473 - tourism, economic classification 451 - subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, the amount of 2,641.000,000 is changed by 2,341,000,000. In Article 5, Section 21 - Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, function 560, economic classification 463 - transfers to other levels of government (rehabilitation of the Kolubar district affected by the earthquake) amounted to 321,159,645 is changed by a total amount of 621,159,645 and the total amount goes for the purpose of rebuilding the Kolubar district affected by the earthquake. "What did I want to accomplish with this amendment? I am from this part where the budget rebalancing envisions that the 2,641.000,000 figure has been transferred to this part of the Kolubar district's assistance affected by the earthquake since 1998. Why did I take it from "The Ski resort of Serbia"? First of all, because it's one of the biggest budgets I've seen here in budget rebalancing. Then, Serbia's Ski resorts is a major pest; I was just explaining that amendment on environmentalism and environmental protection, the JP "Scivals of Serbia" is directly responsible for destroying the ecosystem on the Old Mountain and for extremely rare species of plants and animals being brought to extinction. Such pests as "Serb Ski resorts" should take away what I have taken from them. The third reason is that the DSS's view is that, practically, JP "Skids of Serbia" cannot be a government enterprise, but it needs to be either a municipal enterprise or the ownership of a private company. Simply, it is a company that is profitable and there is no need for these funds to be allocated to them in the budget, especially if we have in mind that, let's say, they have now received a tender for the creation of some entertainment parks around major tourist centres in Serbia. So, I thought that 2,641.00.000 for "Skialds of Serbia" was really excessive, and since the Kolubar County has a special status since 1998 and it is a priority to help it, I thought, and I came from Valjev, from Kolubar County, quite justified that these funds go into the budget for this purpose. What surprised me here is the explanation I received from the government, it says: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds are planned for tourism within the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, i.e. funds for the reconstruction of the Kolubar district within the department of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, proposed in line with the needs and assessment of expenditure realized by the end of the year. "In other words, the Colubary County did not ask for these funds, it did not need them, given that it gets in time and achieves realization in the same way, which I think is absolutely incorrect, because I checked in the Colubary County, or I checked in the Directorate and realized that this answer was written by someone who obviously did not check this information. Since I am an MP to the opposition, that I would not always be in a situation to justify myself why I'm looking for something, and in some other circumstances, while I was in power, while my party was in power, I did not ask for it, I will immediately say, all these years since I was an MP, and this is my third term, or fourth year, every year I have submitted a similar amendment. Approximately, and the funds were the same, since I know that the government has been giving around 500 million a year since the creation of an enterprise that was tasked with helping the Kolubara County, the Rehabilitation and Construction Directorate of the Colubary County, which was around 2000 to compensate for the damage. Now I'm going to say something that I think is necessary for the other MPs to hear in order to define that they are voting for my amendment. I guess the government knows this information. So the Colubary County is 30. Nine. There was an earthquake in 1998. The great material damage caused by the earthquake was estimated at 30. 11. 1990 - 6,120,388,000. The then Ministry of Construction and Municipality of Valjevo formed a Directorate for Construction and Development of the Kolubar District 1. 1. 1999. The task of this Directorate was to make standards and criteria to ensure that the assistance coming from the Republic, and partly from the budget of the Municipality of Valjevo, was directed in the right way, in order to make priorities and to get help where necessary. The Directorate then established the Council of Directorates. That advice was one body made of professional people, primarily building engineers, who dealt with this problem. They were supposed to make a list of the damaged, and on that part of the Council, citizens mostly had the most objections. I want to say how it was done. In the first year, a considerable amount of funding was allocated, but those funds did not reach the Colubary County at all. Here, I must say, for the first time, one of these reports was in front of the Serbian Parliament on the Committee on Urbanism and Construction in 2004, and then this report was adopted which I am now calling on. So this is what this was done in February 2001. The debt of the Directorate to companies that carried out reconstruction and construction works was 500,000, and the debt was, then, no heavy interest and no other duties. Out of the 1918 houses, the apartment was qualified 336. Interestingly, the adopted programs are not respected. So the type houses were planned -- 66 square meters, and they were made of 100 squares. I'm sorry I don't have the paperwork I got here and the rules while I was still working in the Valjevo municipality, to see what kind of houses were made of several hundred squares, with pools, at the expense of those who didn't even have a chance to get a small 30-square house. I have to say, it was a completely non-intentional waste of funds. For example, we have a situation that is in Lykovec, a small town in Kolubar County, a cafe made of these funds; a swimming pool in Osecina was also built. It's a pretty casual waste of funds. The directorate concluded construction contracts with about 167 companies and without a prior examination of the ability, the financial insolvency of these companies, so a pile of money went to the wind. Then, the selection of the firm was never made through the implementation of the prescribed legal procedures. The construction of the facilities was carried out without a previous building permit and in the directorate itself, a systematization was set up that had never been applied. So it's only partial. It's a report anyone who would really like to deal with this amendment of mine should probably look at. The whole story consists of roads, waterways, sewerage, public facilities and facilities in which institutions were actually destroyed, but the point is that those who are the poorest, those living in the rural area, especially in the municipalities of Lajkovac and Mininica, were left without their houses. It's been ten years since that earthquake. If you read the daily press, if you watch TV shows, you will meet very often stories, moving stories about old people who live and day-to-day in some scavengers, who live in non-intentional facilities and once lived in stables and stables to survive the winter. As an MP, I visited several times some of those people who came to complain to me. Basically, they all complain about the rankings that were then made, which were made after 2000. It's just that whoever doesn't have a place to live has to ask for help. I'm speaking to this assembly right now for the sake of these people, because believe that there are more than 150 people living in non-purpose facilities today, and they're left entirely on the edges of society, and there's no one to help them except the state that, after all, needs to help them. What I find even more interesting here is that a new power has been created, that we have new members of the Council and instead of members of the Council being people who are completely professional in the area for which they are elected, we in the Council of this moment have graduate economists, technical service handlers, graduate agricultural engineers. So, as this council will do and what it will do and what priorities it will make, I can only imagine, given that many people who were in this council were before, at least from the political structures that were here, both in the old days and in the uncles. Only those people who were really right, and so because they're uneducated, old, can't follow the procedure, they don't know who to complain to, they don't know how to write a complaint, so these people are still left behind today because they don't need anyone. That's the attitude this country has in general towards all the old people. I see this story today and these days about how we treat the pensioners, how we pronounce them the brakes of social progress. According to Finance Minister - or Corridor 10 or Pensions. According to SPS senior official Bajatovic, on a television show -- you know, if we give the pensioners, we have to take them away from the children. Now, that's how pensioners are treated by a "serious" state that has cheated on them many times, so it cheats on them again. It's a way of turning public opinion. Now the rest of us need to define ourselves and say -- well, they're brakers, what these pensioners want again, they don't need them, they need to invest in other things in this country, start production and stuff. It's simple, it's incorrect and it's untrue. These are the people who earned their pensions and who paid their internship. These are people whose personal income has been separated by a minimum of 20 and an average of 26% of their personal income for years. They have the right to those pensions. I think we should help these people in the right way. No need to cloud the essence of demagogue stories about 70% of personal income. There's got to be a way for pensioners to really increase pensions, but not in the way that's done here -- we give them 10%, and then we raise energy prices by 60%, the phone by 300%. I don't know what kind of math that is, and what is the calculation to say that the increase is 70%, and the price of the phone subscription was 88 dinars, and now it's 240, and it's 70%. I'm not much of a math major, but for me, it's more than three times. All life supplies are up, municipal services are up. So, these 10% pensioners aren't worth anything today. What I see is the tendency of this government, and that's why I'm afraid that my amendment will never be adopted, but I have to say that we are slowly going to a spiral that existed in the 1990s, with the same authorities, if the DS is excluded, but since we see in their ranks many of those who were then in power, I'm not surprised. So, we're entering a terribly dangerous spiral where the breaking news in the diary will be when pensions are received and wages are paid. So that's the same story about inflation speeding up, that foreign investors are leaving us, that our stock index is going down, that we're going into a circle that this government, so incompetent, will never be able to get out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6544	I thank Mrs Vojic-Markovic for her very serious preparation and tendency to correct the text of the budget rebalance. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. By amendment, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6545	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group supports the amendment tabled by counterpart Milica Vojic-Markovic. It is good that, through this presentation, she has actually returned to the beginning, that is, this tragic event for the locals of the Kolubara region and the fact that in these extremely difficult conditions and the eve of NATO's aggression on our country, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the small and modest resources that we have collected from the incomes of our citizens under sanctions, has begun to allocate serious funds for the restoration of objects destroyed in the 1998 earthquake. The Serbian Radicals as well as you, Mrs Dejanovic, who also participated in the government of the People's Unity, know that, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Finance and Vice-President of the Republic Government, Prof. Vojislav Seselj has repeatedly insisted, year after year, that as far as possible, ways are being found to increase these funds in the budget. But when we were in 2001... I remember it was the beginning of March of the month, it was the temporary financing; the Dossovic government was formed on January 20th 2001, after the elections. One of the first amendments that we put into the budget of the Dossovian government was to increase resources and to continue to be followed seriously through serious work and through a state commission that has to monitor the work to provide funds for the people of the Kolubar district. Somehow at that time, actually a year later, so these were two related budget items, then Djelic came to the finance minister and even tried to accuse the SRS and Serbian Radical Party president of unintendedly spending certain funds. In fact, people who were our coalition partners at the time so seriously treated the problem that the following year, after a massive flood occurred in certain Serbia's districts, among other things, in the Shumadian district, following a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with an increase in funding in 1999, the amount of funds to help the endangered areas from the August 1999 flood was allocated. When we got the budget we were amazed -- they were boasting, you see, there came a new power of liberators, your Democrats -- and we saw there, in nominal terms, in relation to such a budget projection and all those loans you took, and the increase of all the taxis by the 2001 Djelic's laws, that those funds were not satisfactory and that someone left them at all. You see, a moment of work has passed for ten years, and colleague Vojić-Markovic who lives there, as well as Mr Zoran Popovic, in the municipality of Ljuško, and our radicals, the citizens know that people don't have a roof over their heads today. While some worry about how they will keep their facilities affected by the 1998 earthquake, on the other hand, what our people would say - there can be no villa and castles in their hometowns, as the famous local community of Bajcetina, under Vidic, and the villa of Tomislav Nikolic has already been mentioned so many times. What I'm saying is that unfortunately, not only were housing affected, but also education institutions, health care. This people in Kolubara, as well as in all Serbia, with all that is valuable and what they do in difficult conditions (you know how much our economy has been hit there during the bombing), is working on a spiritual restoration, not only for the sake of our Serbian Orthodox Church, but also for preserving what we are as a people and as a state. That's very important. In preparation for this amendment and in consultation with Mr. Myaljevic, I asked if there were destroyed and damaged church facilities, churches and monasteries during that period. Thank God, no, but later something happened that really shook the local village of Tubravić at Valjev. The decision by the authorities at the time tried something that had not happened anywhere, except where the Cypriot ballistic terror in Kosovo and Metohija ruled, which is to bring down the Gracanica church, which was once a monastery and came from the German era, because it occurred to someone that in this very place, Tubravić was building a hydrocentral; so they said – we have a problem with the church and this property around, let's bring it down and build a hydrocentral. Fortunately, with the determination of the locals – who, like the whole region, were affected by the earthquake, and even today, the government has no hearing to direct the necessary means – they have defended our spirituality and faith, saving the church. Now make one parallel. I will try to quickly finish, leave my colleague, Stevanovic, time to talk about the tourism of the neighbourhood, because this is about this amendment and the ministry, which is unfortunately run by Mladjan Dinkic, who put his paws on these important resors. Imagine now the difference: on the one hand, you have people who have watched since 1998 how to restore the roof over their heads and guard our sanctity and fight for a church, such as this village in the Colubarian region. On the other hand, you have the one who stole the mandates of the SRS, it is a certain Tomislav Nikolic who is making a villa of... He's still bragging, he says. It's worth more. Three or four million would be worth being in Belgrade, on Dedinj, but there, a little distant, in the Georgian region, in Bajcetina, so it says, we didn't get a good estimate, that's about a million euros. Not only does he kidnap and steal to build himself this property with all the following objects, but he treads in his faith, or in our faith, and in what he did himself, and swears before the Lord God. That's what I'm gonna end up with, Mrs. Dejanovic. You were not in the O.R. a few days ago when Mr Krasic read the oath of the MP. You've told me and us several times, but in the conversation with me, you don't seem to have the mechanism to act because they're gone, or our resignations have been stolen, so you point us to the Constitutional Court. Mr. Krasic said it was pointless, but he read the oath. These days, yesterday and the day before, tourists and locals of Vranjačka Banja told me that they had not heard it well or they had gone to the end, but one gentleman said -- indeed, as a Serb and as a Orthodox, believing man, I was amazed by the fact that someone could crush it and go into such treason, they betrayed Vojislav Seselj, SRS, but above all betray their faith and what they had committed. In order for you to hear, and I believe that you never had the chance, we Serbian radicals, the honorable, the Shessels radicals, we have this framed and standing next to the icon in our houses, us who once, two or more times took an oath. This is the oath of the People's MP of the Serbian Radical Party, of course a copy, says: "I, Tomislav Nikolic, swear as a People's MP, swear by the almighty God, swear by my Orthodox faith, swear by my name and honor, swear by the glory of my ancestors and by the future of my descendants that I will do my honourable, fair and dedicated duty, respecting party discipline, implementing the decisions of the highest party bodies in accordance with the programme and the statute of the Serbian Radical Party. The unity of the Serbian people and the state, political democracy, civilized legal order, economic prosperity and social justice will always and everywhere represent the main objectives of my political struggle. My parliamentary mandate will be held at any moment by the Central Ministry of Homeland and will be subject to its will unconditionally. As I respected this oath and fulfilled it, so did God help me." National MP of the Serbian Radical Party. That the oath was taken on 26 January 2004 at St. Nicholas's temple with the signature and seal of the Central Fatherly Administration of the SRS is confirmed by SRS President Dr. Vojislav Seselj and, on his behalf and in his absence, until recently returned, by his signature on his oath, Tomislav Nikolic. Protonary Gjorge Popovic. Just say, do you, as an honorary, trusting people and as men who respect the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Lord God and everyone else's faith, have more consideration and say that there is a speck of morality in this man? Of course not.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6546	The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6547	Thank you. Mrs. Vojic's amendment is certainly acceptable and I would like to bring him into contact with Mr. Dimitrijevic's amendment earlier, especially the segment of the amendment relating to environmental protection. Given that the government's arguments for non-acceptance are almost identical, I would use an explanation relating to Mr Dimitrijevic's amendment, where it has been said that the government does not accept the amendment because of the fact that the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning in the budgetary procedure for budget rebalancing did not express the need for additional funding under the 441 approvation. With this attitude, the government has not expressed its relationship to the amendment, but rather its essential relationship to the protection of the environment and the importance of meeting standards in this area. There are no funds that can be projected without being predicted or presented as ballast and surplus to improve the environment. No European standards, no Europe, which you're going to, I don't know, back-to-back, until you meet the standards in the environment. It is an imperative and you Europeans, Eurofanatics or Euromercalia, as they said earlier, should know. What is your relationship to environmental protection in this area you've shown in recent years. Immediately after coming to power or in years ago, you adopted a strategy on treatment of municipal waste. The country's strategy predicted that Serbia has 39 regional sanitary dumps. From then on, you've started making four or five, and you haven't put one in office until today. You understand so much the importance of meeting standards in this area. At a rate like this and dynamics over the next ten years, I don't think you'll be able to just pick up the trash behind you. The other day, I was talking about how irresponsible behavior in this area can cause damage to one local or regional environment. My colleague Natasa Jovanovic just said that I come from the municipality of Surdulica, whose territory lies the Vlassin Lake. The state and the government, where you from the DS participated, and this Mladjan Dinkic, the humble creator of the circulation chip... How much damage have they done to us just through their actions in the government? The previous leadership and then the president of the municipality, Dr Stanislav Momčilovic, have made no effort to bring together with the government of the Republic of Serbia a series of documents of strategic character. Among other things, a decision has been made to declare Vlasina as the area of exceptional virtues. The decision resulted in a series of strategies, studies and documents. He has created a series of projects that you have denied with this budget rebalance by depriving funding through the National Investment Plan for some projects. Four 60m dinar projects will not be able to be implemented in the area, although the area has been declared one of eight international brands in Serbia. You have no excuse for such a thing. We can argue politically, one way or another, but these things are essential... (President: Bring the end. )......................................................................................................... that really stimulate and encourage even regional development. The arrogant behavior of individuals in Germany 11 certainly affects the development of an end or one end for which we all objectively share the opinion that it is the poorest and the most economically undeveloped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6548	The MPs Željko Tomic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to Articles 15 and 21 of the amendments. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anybody want a word? Mr. Zeljko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6549	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, in a situation where the government recently celebrated or marked a hundred days, someone says the existation of the government, and someone says the work of the government, but the government hasn't worked for 100 days, because we remember that most ministers were on summer holidays all over Europe and the world, so the most employed person in the government was our former National Assembly secretary, and now the Prime Minister, Mrs Tamara Stojcevic, who had to look for them, on various issues, across Europe and the world; in a situation where Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic and Serbian President Boris Tadic said that the recession itself does not mean anything terrible, no problem for the state, which reminds us overwhelmingly of the early 1990s when sanctions were imposed on us, so then President Slobodan Milosevic said that the sanctions in fact are our chance, so today our chance, something which is only negative in terms with Serbia as being able to speak; To remind you, the text of the amendment is similar in form, almost the same as the previous amendment by our colleague, Ms. Milice Vojic-Markovic. This means that from public non-financial enterprises and organisations the amount of 2,641.000,000 is reduced by 300. 000,000 and transferred to the Central Bank district area, that is, the part of our country that was hit by severe floods in 2005. In an explanation of why this amendment was rejected, an identical formulation is said - no funds were sought. That is how We interpret it; they are not of the rightful means, so my God, there will be none. People in Međa, either in Mionica or I don't know where they have to say, as Bata Stojkovic in the movie "Balkan spy" - for a day of security if they remember us, remember. They need someone to remember. That's the problem. Let me tell you in short, in 2005, the area of Central and Northern Banat, according to the border with Romania, was hit by severe floods. Temporary defensive embankments, so-called rabbit dikes, have been set up. They're missing permanent ones. That's where he cares. I remind you that this popular omnibus law has transferred jurisdiction to the Vojvodina Assembly, the Executive Major of Vojvodina to establish the company "Vojvodina Water" that would deal with this, which in 2005 proved to be completely incompetent and incapacitated and without republican institutions and institutions, the problem could not be solved. The damage to agricultural land is significant. The state really helped a lot, about 70% of the damage was recovered. And that's where it stops again. Today, 23 residential buildings have not been renovated. I think with this sum that my amendment to my colleague Jovan Palalic and I have suggested these three problems could be adequately solved. During that time, millions and millions of euros are given to ski resorts. You can say billions of dinars. Nowhere in the world ski resorts are owned by the state. Someone already said that today. They are owned by private, private companies or local municipalities. Only in Serbia is the state pouring its hand and hat, all because of the fact that we are not lying, to say plainly, because of one minister. Even such enormous sums of money will never help Mladjan Dinkic to be a top skier. In the meantime, some other top athletes are leaving us. Let me remind you of the Milorad Cavic case. What does that mean? Where ski resorts are are also large budgets, because of one man. Where there are big problems there is nothing, and where medals and successes are there is a visa for Italy. It's the state's relationship to the people at risk. It's the attitude of the state to the successful. I think that this amendment really needs to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6550	The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6551	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, through this amendment, my colleague Zeljko Tomic and I wanted to point out the way in which the Government turns the list of priorities of its policy. It is amazing that in the budget rebalancing, one of the government's top priorities is to provide money for ski resorts. Despite all the problems we have identified these days, the largest number of these problems concern the Ministry of Regional Development and Economy, it would be that ski resorts are Serbia's most important potential. They are not new jobs through increased resources for old-ap loans proposed by my esteemed colleague Nenad Popovic and the possibility that young people with their business ideas solve their unemployment problem and enter private business. These are not serious regional development problems facing the state of Serbia, with huge devasted areas, from areas where demographic problems and long non-investment in infrastructure have caused a large number of citizens to emigrate. We didn't see this huge and massive ministry making an effort to solve these big problems, but we saw exactly the opposite -- that ski resorts are the most important potential. We wanted to show in one drastic case that this country does not care about the problems caused by the elemental disasters that have affected certain areas. The previous amendment by my fellow MP from the Milice Vojic-Markovic group concerns earthquakes in Kolubar County, and this amendment speaks of floods that took place in central Banat. The previous governments have done much to address these problems. It was to be expected that the work that started the previous two governments would be completed, but we can see that there was no space and hearing in this rebalancing process, but for ski resorts. Instead of focusing the funds on solving the existential problems of citizens, as in the municipality of Međa, we see that the funds are being channelled towards the development of something that we are convinced at this point, the majority of citizens do not view as the priority of this country. We are sure if you were to now survey Serbian citizens and ask them if this kind of funding should go to Serbia's Ski resorts, you would see that most citizens did not experience it that way. This problem was clouded by major populist campaign promises, and no one saw that, like false promises to increase pensions, about free actions, about corridors, about large privatisations and investments, at a small door, in silence, had made billions for ski resorts. That is exactly how this government has been building a policy -- by increasing public spending, and investing in funds where the biggest and most prominent problems of Serbian citizens are not being solved. We are witnessing that these very days the whole concept of politics formed by this government is collapsing. I'm talking mostly about that segment that applies to economic policy. We have not been able to see what these are key strategic policies of this government when it comes to balanced regional development and increasing and encouraging entrepreneurship. It is not disputed to talk about major infrastructure projects. They are important precisely to solve some of these problems, but what is a burning problem are the spaces in Serbia that expect funds to be directed there to solve the problem of infrastructure, but also to increase overall good conditions for the development of entrepreneurship. This should be the ministry's priority for economics and regional development, and we see that this is not a priority. In this sense, it should be clearly pointed out that this budget rebalancing, once again, but it is not worse to do this more times, is the fruit of the compromise of individual parties within the government, to satisfy concrete interests and concrete promises that are not priority for the state of Serbia. It was just one political party that considered it most important to build ski resorts at the moment and that there was no more important job in Serbia. We have never heard from a representative of the Ministry why it is a priority, why it is not a priority to solve demographic problems, solve infrastructure problems in undeveloped municipalities such as Lebane, Bojnik, Prokuplje, Književec, but rather to build ski resorts and thus meet the demands of individual government officials. In any case, we will attack these populist, unreasonable, irrational, and, above all, out of the interest of Serbian citizens, proposals and projects with amendments and show citizens that on such populist messages, the populist promises have brought down the entire economic concept of the Serbian government and that we are convinced that we will discuss very quickly the mistrust of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6552	Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Mile Ilic and Nikola Savic to section 5 and 54. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6553	Dear Presidents, honourable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, citizens of Serbia, an amendment that I have submitted together with two other MPs from Nis, Mr Milet Ilic and Mr Nikola Savic, refers to article 5, division 15 - Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Interestingly, this ministry is somehow the most covered by the proposed amendments. I guess there's something that's unclear and not well-placed, and that's probably why they're attacking the amendments. In that amendment, we proposed to allocate additional funds from other economic classifications and transfers to the division - Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, for the purpose of paying off some of the backlogs for EI Nis workers. I consider this amendment to be entirely meaningful, and the idea for that was given me a budget rebalance in the part where the funds for the payment of the residual earnings to the flag workers from Kragujevac were provided. The government has rejected this amendment. It explained, since one part of the funds was to be transferred from the NIP section, that the multi-purpose development projects financed by the NIP had already started and that there was no money to reduce that item to switch to an item of subsidies for the workers of the Electronic Industry, which is highly contradictory of what the NIP Minister said. Mrs Kalanovic, visiting the morning programme, stated that this year all the projects outlined in the NIP will not be able to be completed, that there will be many unfinished projects left, and therefore probably a lot of money in that part of the ministry. So that argument doesn't stand. It is also stated in the explanation that the funds allocated to restructuring firms, and in line with already established programmes for the resolution of surplus employees, are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which means that the provision of funds precedes those activities. So, specifically, the social program. I didn't ask here to provide funding for the social program. Social programme funds are provided when there are extra employees. The Nis electronics industry, to remind you, once had more than 20,000 workers, at least 15,000 in the EI Nis system itself, in the city of Nis. Today, there are barely 2,000 employees, and the number of back salaries is measured by thousands, i.e. over 1,000 workers are between five and 64 unpaid earnings. Now imagine what it's like when someone works in the EI Nis system and 64 months doesn't get paid, and you know that there are a lot of families where two or more family members work in the same system and, of course, they don't receive a dinar for years. Since the government has rejected this amendment, it is likely that the congregation majority will not accept it either. I wish it were different. This means that there will be no money for backlogs, let's say, in the EI Nis, there will be no money for an increase in pensions, neither for the socially endangered, nor for the disabled, but there will be money for the cabinets of ministers, for the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Ministers, for travels, for services under a contract measured by millions of euros, there will be money for giraffes and ski resorts. There won't be money for those people who work for years and who don't get paid for it. I'm not jealous of Kragujevac, Kragujevci and the flag. They've been on the back of the state for years, according to most people here. According to data provided by someone from the G17 party, with over 500m euros, the state has subsidized the flag for the last eight years. For a large number of Zastava workers, social programs and backlogs have been paid. I really don't mind, all the people in a difficult position should be helped. But where is equality? Why does one have the means to pay off and the backlogs and to connect work experience and to contribute to social and pension payments, and for others there is nothing? Where's the equality? The constitution guarantees the equality of all citizens of Serbia. What are we all equal to? We're only equal in that we can buy for our money at a monopoly some product for expensive money, if we have that money. Where's the money? There are only in Belgrade and in the part of Vojvodina. In other parts of Serbia, it is controversial, in the south it is almost gone. When I say this, I'm not jealous of the Vojvodians either, they're fighting for their place under the sun, but it really bothers me when, according to the Privatisation Act, from companies that are sold from the territory of the AP Vojvodina 50% of the funds are returned to the AP Vojvodina, plus 5% for a city whose territory is a company. What about the other cities in Serbia? Why, for example, in Nis for the sale of DIN, did the city get 5% of the total amount of 400m euros, and that is all? That's all. So what are we equal in? For one, it can be 50% plus 5%, and for the other, only 5%. Do you know there's a saying about this part of Serbia down there -- "The souther, the sadder"? Blessed are the people of Belgrade, they have a state, because they are a state in the state; the treasures of the Dukes, they have their own Autonomous province and they can protect themselves. What are we doing south of Sava and Danube? What will we and who protect us from? What do these people who live in southeastern Serbia, whose incomes are miserable? See statistics on average income in Serbia's municipalities: among the first 13 seats are eight Belgrade municipalities, with an average of 37,000 to 46,000 dinars. See the last 20 per receipt: 13 municipalities are from southern Serbia, from Književec to Vranj, via Major, Kursumli, Blac, Svrlig, Vladic's Han, Gajino Han, Piroth. What do you mean? This is the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Where's regional development here? What regional development can we expect if in the last 50 years 190 villages have been shut down on the territory of Southeast Serbia? Did you know that one Kursumli had 37,000 inhabitants, with an average age, or youth, much more favourable than today? Today there are barely 17,000 inhabitants. Do you know what the average age of that bullet is? Over 60 years, there's at least 40% of the population. In villages on the border with an administrative line with Kosovo, there are two or five residents. Who's going to protect this country for us? Who's gonna guard that border for us? They all moved out. Where? In Belgrade. Why Belgrade? Because all the money is here. All state institutions are in Belgrade. I said what the average salary is. Now I'm going to say another illustrative data. In Belgrade, there are 103,000 unemployed on labour market records, to 1,700,000 people. There are 36,000 unemployed in Nis at 250,000 people. Do you know what the percent is - 14.3%. It's barely about 6.5% in Belgrade. In Vranje, 17,000 people do not work out of 65,000 people; 23% of the unemployed. What kind of regional development is this? There's always talk of decentralisation of Serbia. There is the Minister of Telecommunications and, since she is not competent, she probably cannot answer various questions concerning budgets and amendments. I understand her. She's in an awkward position. There should be a finance minister who will answer questions concerning budget rebalancing, not a minister of telecommunications or agriculture. They may know about their ministry, but for the overall budget, they can hardly answer all the questions. Surely the Minister of Telecommunications can answer the question why "Telecom Serbia", which is under the minister's authority, is a real reorganisation and shuts down all regional units throughout Serbia so that in no region in Serbia you no longer have the organisation unit "Telecoma Serbia", already all of these are businesses, up to the level of the boss. So 100 directors will be placed in Telecom Serbia only in Belgrade and nowhere else, not in Novi Sad, not in Nis, not in Kragujevac, not in Kragujevac, no more. That's how those who want to get a phone line or build a network in that bullet I mentioned or Major will have to write a request to the director in Belgrade, because he knows better if there's somewhere to build or connect a phone number than someone from Kursumli, Nis, or I don't know where. It's absurd over absurds. We're always talking about some decentralisation, and centralization is getting bigger and bigger. Bigger and bigger. In the "Telecom", NIS, in any state institution, a large company, toilet paper is supplied in Belgrade, soaps are supplied in Belgrade to distribute to Presevo, in the organisation unit "Telecoma" in Presevo. Is that normal, people? Where will such a Serbia go? Where are we going? What about other agencies and ministries? They're all set up in Belgrade, everything, literally. Why does all ministries have to be based in Belgrade? You have one RTS that is funded from the subscription of all Serbian citizens. Is that right? You have a Belgrade program that goes from 18:00 to 19.00 hours... To understand one more time, I have nothing against the Belgraders. There live the largest number of people, 1,700,000, they should have their own program, but why should I look at the Belgrade programme from Nis and see if a pipe broke on the Wizard? Is that logical? This is how you could talk all the way out. Did you know that the Ministry of Culture only allocated more money for Bemus than for all projects of culture in close Serbia? Is that equality? Is that how we're going to develop Serbia? By economically exhausting everything that is outside of Belgrade, moving people here, and then having a collapse on Mostar and Gazali, it won't be possible to cross two hours of main streets into the cave, and villages are empty, municipalities are shutting down, Black Treva has barely 700 inhabitants, 80% of the population has moved out of there. Why? Well, for economic reasons. When I propose an amendment to help people who work in the electronics industry a lifetime of work and who don't get paid for five or more years, minimum earnings to pay them off will be for some, and for them they won't be. Why? Well, because they're from southern Serbia and they don't care, there's no need to pay them off. In this Serbia, the Constitution guarantees equality for all and if there is no equality for all citizens of Serbia, unless there is an equal development of all parts of this country and investments in all parts of this country, it will not be good. Believe me, it's not gonna be good. (President: Time. I'm done. Because this way we're just making powerful centers and powerful bureaucracy, and destroying what was the eternal foundation of this country. Please, first of all, from the congregation majority, think about this and support this amendment. If we think this way, I'm sure it'll be better for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6554	Thank you. On the occasion of the amendment, please. Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of the Budget Act together with my colleagues from Nis, Mr Lapčević, who spoke before me, and to Mr Ilic, who is not here today. Unfortunately, I must remind the public of Nis and the public of Serbia that there are more MPs besides the three of us Nis. I would also like the MPs of the ruling majority from Nis, first of all, to think of Mr Bosko Ristic of DS and Mr Branislav Jovanovic of party G 17, supported this amendment regarding something that goes in favour of all Nislji. But, well, that's their problem, so let them explain tomorrow to the Nislims why they didn't support something like this. Of course, we see that Mr. Ilic, I forgot to say it, though from the ruling majority, so it was possible to support this amendment, but why the gentlemen didn't do it, I don't know. I expected this government, which thinks it is a socially responsible government, to look at the problems of all Serbian citizens, and we heard from my predecessor that in southern Serbia there are huge problems. Unfortunately, there are also problems here in Belgrade, there are in Vojvodina, but the south of Serbia, whose centre is Nis, has the biggest problems and there are the average incomes the smallest. The town of Nis is not only known for its history and its historical symbols, of which it is of course the most famous Cele Tower, but has recently been known for both the Electronic Industry and the Football Club Radniki. Unfortunately, the Electronic Industry, which was a symbol of the city of Nis, almost no longer exists; of some twenty thousand workers who used to work there, we also heard it from the predecessors, there are now barely two thousand. It's a soccer club, Workers, so we don't even talk. The formerly powerful Workers, the pride of Serbian and Yugoslav football, of the great Yugoslavia, today competed, believed or not, in the third league of Serbia, and the stadium of Radnikko, the famous Chair is at a stage of collapse and collapse. One who follows football and sports knows that a friendly match between our team and the Bulgarian football team, which is planned to play in Nis, could not be played there for those reasons. Nis grew up with the electronics industry and the mention of the electronics industry wake up certain emotions at every Nishlia, because there is almost no Nishli who has not worked or whose someone has not worked in the electronics industry. The state still needs to take this a little more seriously, because we know it helped some firms, like Kraguje's flag. Of course, I don't mind, that people don't get me wrong, that the flag is being helped, and the Magnochrom from the Kings, and the Freedoms from Chakak, and the 14th of October from Kruševec and all the former giants, but for strategic reasons... And believe that the south of Serbia, in addition to everything else, has strategic interests for Serbia -- close to Kosovo, close to the Bulgarian border, close to the Macedonian border; we also know that this famous Corridor 10 cannot bring the southern Serbia together with those destinations it is intended for and still south of Serbia represents a appendix. As a reflection of these opportunities, as regards the economy in Nis and the Electronic Industry, you may have had the opportunity to see a creepy sight on one local television a few days ago: in a white day on the roof of one building in the wider center of Nis, a camera of one television camera filmed three young people using drugs, one of the other syringes pierced the veins. It simply seems that without having the opportunity for anything else, some people are trying to resort to such means. But it seems that this state and this government have more important things to do than social matters, because it is represented as a socially responsible government. She doesn't care what the wages are, how the economy works, how it lives. It seems that it is most important for this government to establish control over all the media in Serbia. Of course, I'm not surprised that Boris Tadic is trying to (and he actually did) control all the media in Serbia; he's been doing it since the first time he's been elected president of the state. Recently, however, he has been helped by some others, some who have recently been known to be large opposition, large patriots. We see, Boris Tadic has now opened the media to them, but he has set one condition for them -- you will be available to the media, but you must spit on Vojislav Seselj. Of course, Alexander Vukic, the greatest liar in Serbia, is the leading one in this business. I simply believe that those famous verses of His that refer to great liars refer precisely to Mr. Vukic - no one as large as Vukic lies. You have had the opportunity to read today's press, and since yesterday and before; the poor man knows not what he will do with himself, and then he accuses a man who has been in The Hague for six years, in The Hague tribunal, on whose feet and hands are the chains of those who wish to destroy both Serbia and the Serbian people. This same Vukic now wants me to present this jagged patriotism to the nation and the people and he says, "Here, I'm going to Knin in early December to visit these Serbs, to see what they do and how they live." Where has this Wolf been so far? After all, why didn't he go to Knin a few months ago when she was campaigning for mayor of Belgrade? If that campaign had been launched by a member of the SRS then, from Knin, perhaps the Serbian Radical Party would have received another vote and probably be the government in the city of Belgrade now. But it is obvious that Vukic has now become a favorite of Croatian television and Croatian authorities. Believe me, there's nothing going to happen to him, although he always wants to raise the tension that he's threatened from all sides. When he mentions Knin and the Serb people in Knin no longer mention the Republic of Serbia, he does not mention that these people live there, and their ancestors, more than eight centuries, that it is a Serbian country, that these people are literally expelled. He's going there for some of his reasons. As for Mr. Vukic, I would no longer like to talk about him, but believe me, I will not be surprised if his reason for visiting Knin is that he is going to apologize to the Croatians and the Croatian people for the alleged crimes Serbs have committed in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6556	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krasic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6557	This is a really interesting situation for three MPs from three different Nish parties to sit down and write together one amendment and propose, governed above all by some principle of fairness and equality, to plan, within the framework of the 2008 budget, and some resources to address the social status of employees in the EI or, to be more precise, in the Fronclaves of EI. It seems funny to you when I say that in the franclames, but the destruction of the electronic industry began when technomanagers in Serbia appeared, so something came to Belgrade, something went to the other side, but the deadly blows to the electronics industry was done by Vojkan Mitic, so Zoran Zivkovic, who was quite obliged to the electronics industry for some televisions, and lately G17 plus, who was present in the electronics industry. Of course, Mr Nikola Savic and this gentleman from the Democratic Party of Serbia do not know Banana Jovanovic, he will not sign the amendment. If he wanted to help the electronics industry, he could have done it while he was director of the Nish City Construction Directorate. But there were other big affairs there, about then, to be resolved. As for Bosko Ristic, he has a very clear reason why it does not help. The government's 2009 budget is likely to have this in mind. That's what he's telling you. However, if there is a parallel to how the government's social programme works, as it was in 2001, 2002, as it is today, then I come to the conclusion that the quality of the beatings depends on the proper economic classification in this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law. That seems a little funny to you, but believe it's true. When the Kragujeva workers of the flag dropped Vlahovic, Djelic and others, they entered the social programme. These guys from the electronics industry, they're all nice, cuddly, cultural, to talk, to have those DS guys walking around, to take pictures, etc. Since they didn't take the stick into their hands, they didn't go into budget rebalance. So, from the quality of the pole, the quality of the beating depends on the view of citizens' social status. Of course, this is not a guide to use, that when you meet ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you should fight for your rights by hand means. But you see for yourself; I cannot fight against globalism otherwise. What's going on with E.I. is the sunroof of globalism. Globalism doesn't see an ordinary man, very simple and simple. He only sees the euro, the dollar; and the man -- if he has it there, fits in, and if it doesn't fit, it doesn't fit. Last time I told you, you took it as a joke, I wouldn't be surprised if Mladjan Dinkic said next year - pensions are lifted. Why? They're expenses. We'll cut the cost, we'll cancel the pensions. Well, if the EI workers can live without pay for 60 months, which the pensioners couldn't live without a pension. Then Boris Tadic will say no, Junior, brother, that's what we're going to innovate. How? The pensioner gets a one-time aid of 2,000 euros. Then they're as effective as possible. They are disturbed by citizens in Serbia, do you understand? One Nis, which by all criteria is the centre of the Balkans, has become an absolute province. Why? Well, Democrats, and Nišli, remember Zivkovic, Banana and all the characters that led you to Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6558	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 15 and 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Zoran Nikolic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6559	Dear People’s MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Section 5 of Section 54 - Administration for Joint Affairs of Republic Authorities, Function 130, Economic Classification 511 - Building and Building Buildings, to change the amount of 1,836,060,000 to 1.136,060,000. In the same article divided by 15 - Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the function - multi-purpose development projects, economic classification of 551 - non-financial assets financed from NIP realisation funds, amounting to 2,880,850,000 is changed by 3,580,850,000. In addition to the amendment, I explained that the NIP funds envisioned funding for a number of projects and that local self-government throughout Serbia competed for a large number of significant projects. Hand to heart, a large number of projects were sent from the NIP, but also a large number of projects with orderly documentation, strategically important for many municipalities, were not sent this year, so municipalities were forced to borrow from business banks. It's certainly not a good practice, because we're just going to face it, I don't have that information, but I think that already at this point many local self-governments are largely in charge. The government rejected this amendment with an explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why the reduction of funds intended for buildings and construction facilities in the division of the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Authority, which would endanger the execution of expenditure on already undertaken commitments, including the completion of the German 9 building, is intended for judicial authorities. "Of course, we have nothing against judicial authorities. With a set of judicial laws, that is, changing our judiciary, we will only face each other in the coming days. The session is scheduled for Wednesday, which also speaks of the government's attitude towards the Assembly, but also of those who are handling the Assembly, who do not protect the integrity of the Assembly, because these laws are certainly with far-reaching consequences. One of the colleagues here has already said that such a change in the justice system has upset both the judicial, legal and legal public. We simply came into a situation where we were forced to submit amendments within 24 hours and to take a stand under that law. What is symptomatic, it has to do with this explanation, is that the government had another draft a month ago, with the abolition of a number of courts throughout Serbia. That draft was suddenly withdrawn from the procedure. Now suddenly we have another draft, which shows the absence of any strategy by the government. The European Commission has described the problem of the judiciary as one of the most important problems in Serbia, and now, again, in order to meet our wishes, we are going very quickly into a process of changing the justice system, I am afraid, not seeing all the potential consequences. In addition to the fact that the government did not have a strategy -- I was recently in a position to be in a meeting with other fellow MPs in the Mačvan County with the presidents of municipal courts and the President of the District Court when the old draft was being discussed, and also to suggest what would happen with this new draft set of judicial laws. What fell behind my eye and what's symptomatic is that all courts in small towns, such as Koceljeva, Vladimirs, Ljubovija, Krupanj, have been renovated over the last two years. Significant funds have been invested. Of course, that's good and commendable, but the problem is that not so small funds have been invested, and now this new bill provides for these courts to be abolished. I think that most vividly shows the absence of any strategy by the state. Therefore, it is explained that the building in Germany 9 should be completed, aimed at judicial authorities. That's not controversial. However, these are the funds of 1,836,000,000 dinars, and I will just tell you the following thing: these are not only the funds allocated to this building; in addition, these funds are also allocated to the equipment of the hall and restaurant in the building in Knez Miloša 20; these are also funds for office and consumer material for the needs of the republican authorities, special organisations, special service materials for motor vehicles, fuel, etc. I am convinced that these items could save a lot of money and move these funds towards local self-government. Because one of the most important political issues, and here on the amendment of several MPs from different parties, said it was a priority, is even regional development. So Serbia is not evenly developed. The entire areas of our country are far behind in terms of infrastructure facilities and the preparation of municipalities and local self-government for the inflow of foreign investment, industrial zones, agro-industrial zones. Simply, this imbalance exists, and I think that every dinar invested in local self-government and in projects that local self-government itself makes as a proposal and competes for NIP funds is well-used money. I know the government will not accept this amendment, but not accepting this amendment is a negation of another pre-election promise, which is that this government advocates even regional development.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6560	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 15 and 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6561	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must once again express my regret that the Minister of Finance is not with us all day. Her colleague will try to replace her, but I simply miss Mrs Dragutinovic's metaphors because we have had the opportunity to hear from her many beautiful stories about sudden happiness, that the government is the last line of defense, probably that Prime Minister Cvetkovic is the best goalie in the country to defend us against the ongoing financial crisis. They were talking about pink glasses. I'm wearing glasses, unfortunately, they're not pink, so I'm going to try to explain in these few minutes the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group. In the presentation of Minister Dragutinovic, we heard that the biggest problem is the balance of payments deficits. We've heard that the greatest danger is the global financial crisis. We've heard there's a great danger of a capital inflow. After that, we didn't hear anything. Muk. How does Radovan the third say - what's the matter? We have no idea. Afterwards, these things were no longer spoken in this room by representatives of the ruling coalition and representatives of the government who were here today. The national investment plan's expenditures have been reduced. Start-up loans are down. We have submitted an amendment to which we asked from the Office for Joint Affairs of Republic Authorities in the classification of buildings and construction facilities to reduce the amount of 600,000 and transfer for the realisation of the National Investment Plan. The reason why the Government and the Ministry did not accept this amendment is as follows: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why the reduction of funds intended for buildings and construction facilities in the division of the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Directorate, which would endanger the execution of expenditure by already undertaken commitments, including the completion of the German 9 building for judicial authorities. "I would like to remind you that the ruling coalition a few days ago has expressed its readiness to accept the DSS amendment that has just requested that the funds be reduced to appeal courts and transferred to account, i.e. in favour of municipal courts operating in the Republic of Serbia. The building in Germany 9 is probably intended for the supreme cassation court, for the administrative court, and I don't know for what other purposes. I know, from reliable sources, that when Minister Malovic visited the building she was amazed by the area occupied by the restaurant and kitchen in that building. It is not acceptable for me to use 770,000,000 dinars to adapt one building. For that money, it can be made, I believe, a new facility, so I think that this is still an excessive amount and that these funds can be reduced and used more wisely, primarily by investing in infrastructure. We know that it is impossible to increase pensions at the same time and increase investment in infrastructure. We've heard that in this budget rebalance for students there's not enough funding, but for pensioners there is. For pensioners, there should be, but we have proven that they are not real promises made by representatives of the ruling coalition, so that, respected pensioners, there may be more funding for you in 2010. I also remind you that in the past few days, the Democratic Party of Serbia has also submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education, which will try to correct a mistake that was made a few days ago when you adopted the Law on Higher Education. Rebalance is the price of this coalition and Mr Nikolic, the DSS MP, said it nicely -- this is not the budget rebalance, this is the rebalancing of pre-election promises. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Slobodan Ilic, also admitted it, in those exact words when he addressed us to the Finance Committee. This budget envisions twice as much investment as projected ones. Public expenditures are up 18%. Investment in infrastructure has been kind of neglected. We just had a chance to hear from my colleague, DSS MP from Nis, Mr. Lapčević, about how people live in the south, how people live in Kursumlia. I don't know if you've had a chance to travel those roads with a kaldrim, and see what that looks like. I expect a ski resort to open in these areas, so we can also go down there on six-seaters or four-seaters, ski well and enjoy the beauty of southern Serbia. God forbid it's like that, but I don't think that's gonna happen. But when we talk about balanced regional development, we heard just now that all institutions are in Belgrade and that everything comes from Belgrade. I agree. There is also a small decentralisation in one sector. Namely, for the purposes of certain republican authorities, paper is obtained in Prokuplje. Imagine now, the whole of Serbia is supplied with paper from Prokupje; so the drawings of paper travel from there. It's not bad, but we need to fix the roads, and then maybe Western Europe will be able to supply itself with the same one from Prokupje. The global economic crisis, which threatens the Republic of Serbia, hit both Hungary and Greece, both Bulgaria and Romania. We have heard several times these days that Serbia has no danger in this regard, that we do not have to worry, that the recession can be beneficial in Serbia's economy, that it can be our development chance. The bigger the recession, the smaller the wages, the less the income, the less the employment, the less the investment, it can be us a greater incentive and a new point around which we will gather to move even harder and even more playful in the future. Life can't wait, let the recession hit us as soon as possible and let us see that bright future. The Democratic Party of Serbia has made a proposal on Friday, more precisely, to form a committee to ease the economic crisis. We have talked about this these days, and we think that by including all the parliamentary groups, the Prime Minister, the finance minister, the governor of the National Bank, the Securities Commission, all the relevant institutions and state bodies, we can offer a solution to get out of the major economic crisis that will certainly hit us. In the past few days, the dinar has been slipping unsustainable. Today, we've experienced the end of this 40-dollar fall. The National Bank of Serbia intervened with huge funds, one day with 30 million, 50, 26. The governor of the National Bank said the National Bank of Serbia intervened with about 220 million. He did not know that he offered us an answer on how much funding the National Bank of Serbia has to regulate this swimming course and maintain course levels at 85 dinar. That magic line, at least in the media, doesn't cross, and we know very well when we go to the exchange room how much money it's worth. This economic crisis, this drop in dinar, the situation in the banking system, is the fact that the most affected debtors are, above all, through interest growth and through an increase in the dinar value of monthly liabilities. The reference interest rate increased from Friday to today by two percentage points in this year by 7%. I think that's enough talking about the politics of the National Bank of Serbia, about saving above all and devalued dinar investment compared to the currency. Speaking of the National Bank of Serbia, I would like to reiterate that a few days ago, the National Bank of Serbia introduced a temporary administration, forced measures into a respectable bank. It is "Metals Bank", which in August 20th arrived at A Listing of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, so that after a month and a half it would be removed from the document on the grounds that they did not give notice to either the stock market or citizens about their business. We asked who all Metals Bank shareholders were. We didn't get an answer to that question, so I'm asking you to hear that too. I think it's very important. Minister Diana Dragutinovic said the government and the National Bank of Serbia have prepared certain measures to intervene and prevent the emerging economic crisis, if necessary. I don't know when it's more necessary than right now. The Democratic Party of Serbia was still aware of the consequences that could affect the Republic of Serbia on October 8th. As a result, it also proposed a deposit insurance law to raise the amount from 3,000 euros to 20,000 euros, which is realistic and which can be covered by the funds in circulation in the Republic of Serbia. On 9 October, on the Committee on Finance, we heard terrible criticism from Mr Ilic's State Secretary to panic, to confuse the public, that there is no need for such measures. The governor of the National Bank did not decedify the team, but after 11 days, we heard Prime Minister Cvetkovic say the Serbian government decided to raise the security deposit to 50,000 euros, with the possibility that it would be 100,000 euros if necessary. The deposit insurance law will be the topic of the National Assembly if all this ends by then, on Wednesday, November 5th. It came after an emergency procedure. We've been waiting a month for the agenda. By the time we adopt him, God knows what's gonna happen. There are no other announced measures. The elimination of interest on savings, the abolition of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, mentioned some other solutions that we are willing to support if there are some benefits from them, but on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament it will not be found on Wednesday, then a set of judicial laws will be found. Speaking of judicial laws, to remind you that a dozen days ago on the Justice Department site, a draft law on the territorial organisation of courts and prosecutors was published, so that the bill was withdrawn very quickly, with 138 municipal courts, almost 40 courts should have been abolished. Now he comes to the National Assembly for a new draft of this law, which envisions 34 basic courts with organisational units throughout Serbia. We're going to talk about this in the next few days, this just adds up to the explanation of this amendment that certain funds are allocated to the judiciary, for its normal functioning. I also say, God forbid it should be as explained to us that it will be, but I do not believe that the citizens of Serbia and, above all, the holders of judicial functions and all the employees of the judiciary will be satisfied with the solutions proposed in this law. The fact is, too, that in the harshest possible way, the Budgetary System Act has been violated. The Democratic Party of Serbia has warned on several occasions. We said, there are no government deadlines, there are no deadlines for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there are legal deadlines, the laws are written to be respected, and therefore certain deadlines are stated in the laws. It's probably one of the reasons why Mrs Diana Dragutinovic is not with us tonight, or all day, because I don't know how she would answer this question why she broke the Budget System Act most flagrantly. In the end, today we heard a warning from the IMF saying the same thing the DSS MPs say. What's scariest and saddest is that you're going to listen to IMF representatives, and you didn't want to hear us in the last ten days. We just wanted to help, to be realistic, and to talk about facts, exact data and figures that can't change anything. I hope the IMF recommendations will be adopted. I am sure that the upcoming 2009 budget will differ significantly from the budget's rebalances, but then the ruling coalition will be in a great deal of trouble to explain to voters who voted for this coalition why they will not keep all their promises. I repeat again, we stand at your disposal. We are the opposition to power, we are not opposition to the citizens of Serbia. The Democratic Party of Serbia is ready to support and assist its capacities to representatives of the competent authorities and institutions in solving these problems. You will have a good associate in us, but, as always, critics, people who will openly tell what is possible and what is not possible, who will never lie to the citizens of Serbia, who will come out for this pay phone and openly tell the real truth and nothing more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6562	Thank you. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6563	I think it is good that Serbian citizens have the opportunity to hear this debate and notice that this government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Boris Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic, is more important facilities and buildings in Belgrade than anything else that could be the development of underdeveloped areas. It is more important for them to have a beautiful building in Germany than to regulate something that is most fundamental to normal life in any place outside Belgrade. The second message we get from the government is, you write it for free, we've already spent all that money the way we suggest it changes. You wrote the amendments, you didn't write the amendments, no one can adopt what you wrote because this is cemented. This should reflect something we don't know when in the 2008 final budget bill. When's that gonna be? Not known yet, we haven't even won for 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004; judging by the dynamics, probably around 2012, 2017 will come up with the 2008 final budget account. Then they count that some MPs will die, some will grow old, some will no longer be MPs, and the new set that comes here will be some new, democratically different MPs, so they'll say, what if we were dealing with the past, which was 15 years ago, that's the past, we don't care at all. It's this democratic logic run by this government. Remember, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a capital facility in Belgrade, in any of these streets, where representatives of the government, judicial authorities, or, to be more precise, in a broader sense of the word of civil servants, should take priority over the life of any citizen in the periphery. To break one taboo, there is no difference in what life is like for people living in Belgrade's periphery from the lives of those people in Nis, Kragujevac and other places. But someone created a situation for Serbian citizens to think about: it is better to be a social case in Belgrade than the first among the equals in Kragujevac, Nis, Prokuplje, etc. This metropolisation is done in a specific way. Of course, the parolees we've been slapping since 2001 are completely different content. What else is interesting about this amendment? Interestingly, the government must not even think of touching the ultimate figure in this ministry. Just to remind the audience, it's about the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Now I'm going to read you some numbers, it's a split of 15, and in the end there are 36,380,000,000 dinars; there's also a Directorate for Measurements and Precious Metals, so the Tourism Development Fund, and when it comes together, about 37,000,000,000 dinars. The Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister (if the second, third, fourth, does not matter) decided that his 37,000,000,000 should not be touched and he is the boss. What's the situation with positions where expenses and expenses are classified? Let's see, it's said: specialized services -- 467 million dinars; subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations -- nearly four billion; purchase of domestic financial assets -- 6.5 billion dinars; subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and tourism organisations, within the ministry -- 2.6 billion. Furthermore, the Tourism Development Fund, it's modest -- just 100, it says 100,000 here, but I think it's 100,000 dinars, you have on some pages to lose these zeros. That's the sector, that's something that the minister is interested in. That's what he's got to include the secretary of state, the assistants, and you see how they're serially changing MPs a little bit, so Micko went to be director here; the other day I wanted to faint when I saw Hope Momirov at the Ministry of Culture. Scary, but scary, guys, what's going on. The majority of MPs in the National Assembly changed G17 plus. Probably 50% of that first set has changed. They're so fluctuated. There was a TV show last night, so Susan was called Snow White, they don't even know how to hit the name. Hope, believe me, the first to leave your government will be Mladjan Dinkic. He has no reason to behave untypically. The legality of his behavior in governments is exactly like that. While they were experts on G17 he and Labus reached out to something, something they didn't like, left, made their own party. They went into the campaign; do you remember that picture? The Millivojević (Milivojević (Milijević) then the other one, then he steals here, and this, and then the videos, and then we tarried, and we entangled. The 2003 elections in December, they entered the assembly and took over the financial sector. They found a coalition partner, and they spread out after a year and a half, three months before that tremor, we're the opposition. They caught on to you, they entered a combination, again -- the European path, the European path, the European path, the democratic bloc, the democratic bloc, the coalition capacity, the coalition capacity. The coalition capacity is killing us. We're being killed by a democratic block. It's killing us the European way. You have to think of a new password, whether it's "Fiat", "trabant", something you have to think of. Now it is clear to all why I am giving guidance: behold, they carry the National Assembly until five o'clock in the morning, until five o'clock in the morning. Change channels if you don't like it, but you'll need to inform yourself here. You know, it's empty here, because the government can't come in. Why? They couldn't answer any of these questions. That's the first reason. The second reason is that they are working intensively on the implementation of the Eulex. The proof of that is the conduct of the Wolf. I'm surprised he's not a media advisor to Barack Obama. Possibly. I wouldn't be surprised if his political father wasn't a media consultant named McCain. These percentages change. Remember, when the elections are now, you will all be invited to the Media Center or to the American Embassy. That's where you're going to type who's going to win. Like last time, and last time you made a mistake. You were like Gora, and Bush won over some minor vote difference and their electoral votes, as they measure it. Make sure you don't make a mistake now. However, whatever you do, you made a mistake. Why? Because you started planting pumpkins with the devil. You plant pumpkins with the devil, and when you plant pumpkins with the devil, then the situation is -- you give the bank to get in the wheel, but not two banks help you get out of the car. I would probably be the happiest man in this country if only one decision was made in the National Assembly to commit this and all of the following governments, for the next 10 to 15 years, to implement only one programme - the intensive return of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to villages. Why? To live normal. Now I'm going to give you a nice piece of advice, you can use it in the local government. If you want a city to develop evenly, make a decision that the mayor must live in a state-owned apartment that the municipality will build for him, in the most underdeveloped part of the city. Let him pull the water, the sewers, the power. When his term of office is over, it is shared by social cases, and the next mayor goes to the next settlement which is the worst, so let him draw water, sewers, electricity and phone, and let him develop it too. To develop Belgrade nicely if Gilas were in Kaludjerica. Or that Stevanović from Kragujevac is in some settlement there. That's how it develops best. Let's move the President of the Republic to some village to live there, let's send the Prime Minister to some village to live, an underdeveloped area, rural areas, where the older citizens are from 70 to 80 years old; let the president live there, so security has to come, so there's got to be a way, so if he has kids, he's got to have a school. If nothing else, let us develop Serbia by using the benefit of state officials. If we were to start bringing citizens back to the villages, to live normally, then there would have to be infrastructure, economy, small plants, small investments and a better life in the country than in the city. If nothing else, at least they won't read the paper. But you won't, because the government is conceived by the drp system, pulls and goes, according to the APP system -- if it passes, passes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6564	Mrs. Jankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6565	I do have a problem, because as a reasonable person, I can't help but support reasonable suggestions that, truth be told, usually come from this opposition side of us. Therefore, the amendment of Miroslav Petkovic should definitely be supported. As I listened to the explanation of this amendment and watched the atmosphere in the O.R., where there was only a modest number of our most persistent and healthiest, it was likely that others went to watch "Operation triumph", although even with us there was coughing and sneezing, it occurred to me that winter was yet to come. In this cold basement room, which often has the atmosphere of a provincial cinema, where there are still no MPs in the valley, those who are silent, start to eat seeds, it's not bad enough to think about what's going to happen to us. What the Serbs will be heating up this winter depends first on how much money they have and what kind of apartment they live in. Once again, the biggest victims will be the poorest ones living in the swings, where doors and windows were placed somewhere in the first half of the last century, of course, without isolation. What's for sure is that there's no energy before this warm season he didn't pick up. Some 60%, like gas, some 20-30%, like coal and wood. Coal is worth about 30% more than last year's worth this autumn's worth of coal. For a household that lives in a house of 60 square meters, it takes five tons of coal of average quality, so it turns out it can't last without about 30,000 dinars. For heating the same house, it takes about ten metres of wood, with a price of between 3,200 and 4,300 dinars per cubic meter. It takes at least 32,000 and 43,000 dinars to survive on wood, with another few thousand dinars for transporting and cutting wood. Although gas distributors do not admit that its sudden collection has forced some citizens to give up planned gas, the calculation shows that gas is more expensive than wood and that for a 60 squares apartment, it takes about 1,400 cubic metres of gas to withstand winter, and to pay for it by a new pricer, it takes about 45,000 dinars. In electricity, they've been moaning proverbically since the summer, because the use of air conditioning is making the consumption grow bigger and bigger. Some experts estimate that electricity is not enough even now, and hardships will only arise if some households choose to switch to cheap electricity instead of coal, wood and gas. But there is a new blow waiting for them, this time a power surge, as the energy minister has already announced a correction of electricity prices in early 2009. The EPS says electricity must have a real price, so it is likely that one who survives in 2008 will receive 40-50 % more expensive electricity in 2009. Some economists argue that changing prices in the EPS is justified because electricity consumption is growing, and Serbia has much lower prices than countries in the region. Energy experts remind Serbia is a member of the Southeast European Energy Community, which means it needs to form the electricity market. We don't have electricity. On the other hand, we have an EPS, a definitely monopoliest and a state that is holding back investment in the electricity sector. Why? Because there wasn't a set of sublegal acts that didn't have anyone to bring in to save an EPS that's a bottomless hole, and we don't know who's spending or where's the money. As things stand, it remains for us to mass-organize people's stakes. After all, we had recent bright examples of Halloween in the middle of Christian Serbia, which seems to have to transform itself to become part of the United European countries. People’s stakes are also excellently combined with folk cuisines, since only four-member families spend at least 70,000 dinars per month on food alone. No wonder this government is pushing for night discussions on budget rebalancing. It began with dark, long-term debates about laws important to the White Schengen list. At that time, it was so hasty that the laws were screwed up, or given in the form of six in one. It continued with these night rebalancing walls, and when the power runs out, we'll definitely have a horror of the Assembly, so how much would it cost, let it cost, be happy to turn into a gas chamber for everyone who cheated on him, betrayed him, and robbed him. Gentlemen of power, understand and return your dignity to this supreme legislative institution that must be seriously and thoroughly, with suggestions from a people who represent both professional and public debates, responsiblely adopt laws whose duration will be longer than the duration of long-term milk. If this continues, we better disband the Assembly and simply assign a few former students of this person to the role of Serbian President to sign European laws without translation. What does it matter what they're in English, when the people don't understand anything in Serbian from the laws you're making.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6566	Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. ) On article 5 of the 16 amendments, with correction, was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6567	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Liberal Democratic Party has tabled this amendment on the additional financing of the Ministry of Mining and Energy. The budget rebalance envisions an additional 54m dinar for this ministry. I remind you, that's the ministry that needs to answer several important questions asked about the oil-gas deal, about the sale, that is, the entry of the Gazprom majority action package, the majority ownership of Jugorosgas. It's that ministry that needs to answer why there was an enormous 60 per cent gas collection for households. That's the ministry that needs to answer why a gas trade mediator was introduced since 2001, now in 2007. Normally, the answers have not yet been received, but we have received this bill on budget rebalancing, which provides for an additional 54 million dinars. It's really time to do a budget check on this Ministry of Mining and Energy. Namely, this ministry requires budget financing, and is also in agreement with an oil and gas agreement concluded with Russia's state-owned firm, Gazprom. You know very well that the agreement has given way to a majority package of NIS actions, at a very unfavourable price for the Serbian states. Therefore, some important issues are raised here, and people are in a position to wonder why so much funding from the budget is a ministry that allows damage to the interests of the Serbian state. With this amendment, we envisioned that the costs of specialised services from 39,000,000 to 30,000,000, travel costs from 6,500,000 to 50.000 dinars, some services by contracts from 8,000,000 to 6,000,000 and so on, because we believe that under these items, anything can be wronged. Money is spent without any control, without any attempt at saving. This amendment proposed reducing the subsidies of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, i.e. subsidising public enterprises in its jurisdiction, from 235,000 dinars to 150,000 dinars. The question arises, why subsidize a public enterprise that gives half the amount of its assets to another state? Therefore, we propose that this amendment be adopted, precisely for the very reason that the state has little control over these expenditures in public enterprises, and also to allow some savings.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6568	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, 17 amendments were submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6569	The President-in-Office, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, re-emerges the same situation: one public firm, this is Železnica, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which was foreseen by 500,000 dinars of subsidies for JP Railways. We believe that this is an excessive amount for this public enterprise, which it also operates without any valid budgetary control and does not in any way apply any savings that would allow it to do business without this large subsidy. Otherwise, 11.123,000,000 dinars are projected to subsidise the Ministry of Infrastructure. This is indeed an excessive amount, which allows public companies to freely dispose, without obligation to be held accountable in that capacity to anyone. We know very well how "Serbian Railways" function. There's been some news recently about the rebuilding of the fleet. Why the fleet if the railroad has the means to drive, which are trains first of all? The explanation given by the Director of the Public Enterprise is at least annoying, because it is called for it to be much cheaper to buy new vehicles rather than to repair and service the old ones. When accounts are made in this way on how money is spent from the budget, then normally we are forced to propose amendments, including this amendment, in the sense that the amount of subsidies provided for by this public undertaking is reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6570	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On article 5, the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6571	Dear President, honourable MPs, on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party, I have submitted an amendment to replace in article 5 19, function 40, economic classification 472 - social security compensation from the budget, in column 6 of the 25,600,500,000 with the amount of 75,600,500,000... (SRS emissaries banging on the bench during the MP's speech. ) In column 8.... (President: I ask the People's Messengers not to interfere with a speaking apostle. ) In column 8, the amount of 25,600,600,000 is replaced by 75,600,600,000. The amendment has been smoothly rejected, with the reason that an increase in social security compensation from the budget under the 040-family and children function is not proposed, as it is not proposed to reduce expenditure for that amount, so that the proposed amendment is contrary to Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. The funds that should be added for this budget expenditure have already been mentioned here many times, and these are the funds for Mr Dinkic's ski resorts, then the cabinet, also Dinkic's office, for which huge funds and haughtiness are given, if I may say so, with which money is spent in Germany 11. It is almost data that 500,000 euros per year are spent on salaries in Germany's 11, for Mr Dinkic's cabinet. It is also said to consume 200 kilograms of coffee, 4500 litres of water, etc. This may seem funny to you, however, social protection is not funny at all, gentlemen of the radicals you're banging at me now and laughing at me, etc. I'm going to do a little depression, if you'll allow me: what you're doing to yourself, slowly slide down the road on the political scale, so I suggest that for the next... (President: Mr. Zivanovic, please do not disturb the speaker. I'm only proposing a slogan, a changed slogan that we had before, which is - 5% plus your vote. I think it'll be a good slogan for you, because I don't think you'll have more than 5% with what you're doing right now. So, from these budgets that I have proposed to increase the funding of accommodations in some of the institutions of social protection, children's homes, a home for the elderly, a home for adults permanently incompetent persons, institutions for home accommodation of mentally retarded children and youth, as well as the settlement of accommodation costs. This category of budgetary resources also includes funds allocated to provide material needs for individuals or families who have no income or who have less income than the minimum level of social security. Note only the amount of money currently being allocated: the minimum level of social security for the month of April 2008 for individuals is 4.825 dinars i.e. 160 dinars per day; for a family with two members of 6,630 dinars or 221 dinars per day; for a family with four members of 9,039 dinars or 301 dinars per day; for a family with five or more members of 9,667 dinars or 322 dinars per day. I'm asking you and I'm also asking the government, how can a family of four survive with 301 dinars a day? What needs can be met with this amount of money? I would also draw your attention to a study done by the Republic Statistics Institute, the Children's Rights Council and the Unicefa Office, which showed that 300,000 children in Serbia live in poverty; of which 150,000 children live in families with 150 dinars per day, and 155,000 children live under that poverty line. According to this study, Roma refugees and displaced children, or children living in social protection institutions, are in the worst situation. More than 80% of children live in Roma settlements and are poor and because of malnutrition, disease and hunger four times more lags in development than the national average. Every seventh Roma child lives in a cardboard box or in a tin house. A third of primary school children don't go to school at all, and only 13% of Roma children finish primary school. The mortality rate of infants and children up to five years of age in the Roma population is three times the national average. It's sad, it's not funny. It is sad as our government, the state does not take care of children, who represent Serbia's future. Also, these funds provide material safety for 7,500 children without parental ageing. I hope that in the day of voting you will accept this amendment, because it is cynical and immoral to give funds for giraffes, for a pool of seals, for cabinets, not to worry about children representing Serbia's future. Thank you very much. Thank you, gentlemen. Radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6572	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 19 and 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic. Alexander Pejcic, come in. Please allow Mr. Pejcic to speak to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6573	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Presidents, Ministers, here, ten days on the agenda is the budget rebalance, a conclomation of wishes and promises of the ruling coalition, i.e. party from the ruling coalition. According to Minister Dragutinovic, this budget rebalance came up with two reasons: to show the relationship between expenditure and income by a modern methodology, a European one; another reason is that she herself did not know the sudden income of ten billion dinars. It is this sudden revenue of ten billion dinars that has been the legacy of the time of Vojislav Kostunica, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, who acted extremely domestically and socially responsible. I will remind you that over the five years of each year, gross social product has grown from 6% to 7%; then, such an economic environment has been created that foreign investments have come about four to six billion annually; the growing economic standard of citizens; around 250 European laws have been adopted. The government has acted quite responsibly towards each citizen of Serbia, and therefore we say that this government was a responsible social government, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, while this government, the government, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, the socially irresponsible government, has done nothing for the past 100 days, which gave itself a grade of five, has done nothing. In those hundred days, it raised the price of gas by 60%, we hear information that it's not the right price, that the price of gas will rise another 30% next year, then raise the price of phone impulses by 200%, increase the price of groceries and, most importantly, lose international credibility. In fact, this government has annulled the Horgos-Požega concession, if you know. In this way, she sent a clear message to investors who want to invest in Serbia that this is an insecure government and that no contracts should be made with this government. Also, some ministers from the government wanted to annul an oil-gas deal, however, they failed. That's all this government's done for the past hundred days. I'll tell you one more thing. At the time of Vojislav Kostunica's government, i.e. two of his governments, during those five years, adopted one strategy on poverty reduction. At the time, Serbia had about a million poor people. In these five years, Serbia has reduced it to 500,000 people, and that's exactly what I've been saying so far, that it was one socially responsible government and that it took care of the standard of citizens and every citizen of Serbia. The reason I submitted this amendment is, in fact, poverty in Serbia. Namely, I come from a poor neighborhood, from the most underdeveloped district, that's Jablani County, where the unemployment rate is 42%, and in Leskovac himself, the unemployment rate is 21%. The biggest users in the social budget are just these people who are on the work desk, then people who can't make money, people who can't afford elemental resources. For these reasons, I proposed that 500,000 be transferred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and in terms of social contributions from the budget. The second reason I submitted this amendment was for wartime military reserves. I have not seen a specific item or certain donations for these military reservers anywhere in this budget rebalance. You've denied the Ministry of Defence a certain amount of funding with this budget rebalance, which is three billion, so the Ministry is unable to deprive them of their war logs. I'll tell you he's from southern Serbia, i.e. from the Jablanic district, about 12,600 reservers left for Kosovo, many of them did not return. However, this is not only an amendment because of them, due to wartime military reservers from Jablani County, but this is an amendment for other reservers who have been striked, who have been in front of the government all the time, and they do not have a clear answer to whether these funds will be allocated to them. Namely, Jablaničko, Pcinjski, Nisavsky, Toplički County (no, I'll skip), Resavsky, Raska County are asking for those diaries to be paid off. Wartime military reservers from Toplico County received those diaries, as it was a pre-election campaign during that period. Mr. Boris Tadic and Mr. Sutanovac went there and so as not to strike, so as not to embarrass the president of the state, they were allocated those funds, while the reserves from other districts were not allocated. The funds are not short, and for these reasons, I have identified a portion of these five hundred million for these military reserves. I will now tell you how the Government replied to me: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that, in order to increase expenditure for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, it proposes to reduce expenditure within the scope of the Department of Joint Affairs of the Republical Authorities, in the context of the appraisal of the economic classification of 511 buildings and construction facilities, where funds are also provided for the completion of the German 9 building for the needs of the judicial authorities, so that the implementation of the projects already started would be questioned. "I ask all of you here, does the Federation Palace, located in New Belgrade, sound empty? Yeah. There is plenty of room for certain ministries to move there, for the court to move there and for these funds to be allocated to the Agency for Joint Affairs, and for buildings and construction facilities to be distributed to the poorest and wartime military reserves. I think the amendment is acceptable. My opinion is that the government should accept this amendment of mine, because it is a socially responsible government and that you, Madam, as a representative of the Ministry, will influence the rest of the ministers and tell them what I told you. So, I suggest that this amendment of mine be accepted so that this government will be known as the socially responsible government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6574	Mr Krasic has the word for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6575	I hope this session is followed by people who understand these things a little bit, and I don't want to dispute my predecessor's idea. I think that this debate is needed, above all, because of the government's representatives who need to pass on what MPs feel, suggest it, because they are still people who communicate daily with citizens of the Republic of Serbia and people who enjoy social protection from the area of family protection and also from areas of sickness and disability. Let me just make a little comparison. This amendment refers to the 19th - Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the economic classification of 472 - social security compensation from the budget, and sickness and disability. This area is in part, if I may say so, the amount of compensation arranged by law. What the previous MP was saying should, above all, be interpreted as a insistence and a request for the government to propose to amend the appropriate law governing this area in order to create a legal obligation in the 2009 budget that needs to be adequately reflected. I didn't want to come forward earlier when he was a citizen, but he suggested that under this group 40, also economic classification 472, in the area of family and children, the fee prescribed by law, social security compensation from the budget, from 25.5 billion to 75.5 billion. That just sounds nice. As much as the government doesn't meet its legal obligations in this area, I don't think it could have missed 50 billion dinars. That's absolutely impossible. But, you know, there's always a problem when a citizen sits down and writes the amendment. There must be someone who knows how to write it to him. Arsic was a little bit more concerned about how he and Nikolic and Dusic Nikolic could be stalling some money at some expense, but the court will consider it. But if he were a bit of a conscious man, he'd never write such an amendment - from 25.5 to 75.5 billion. Maybe the government was wrong about 100 grand, 100 million, but if it were wrong for 50 billion, that's almost impossible. But, you see, I have to put up with all this. Let the paper put up with it. However, regardless of all this, it is necessary to take serious access to this and to realize that something about these fees should be changed, but first the Social Protection Act, so that, on the basis of these changes and increases, the corresponding change in the 2009 Budget Act is made. It's the only right way. These other things are all beautiful dreams and beautiful stories. But I think it's good to talk about this. It's good, because it's probably the only way the government can understand that the socially endangered families from the benefits they receive from social protection barely end-of-the-end rags. I have to take this opportunity to point out that once upon a time our regulations in the field of social protection, by law, were prescribed a kind of luft or empty space where the government, depending on the means, could intervene, or repeatedly, beyond what was prescribed by law in the event of a drastic violation of the social situation of socially endangered persons, those who receive this compensation. I think that such a regulation is necessary, given these things that happen in our market, especially since there is a huge proportion between profit growth and the cost of life. As much as earning from socially endangered categories grows, the basic criterion should be to increase the cost of living and change in that part. I hope you remember this or use the stenogram as some good idea to make a relatively good assessment of what might happen to socially endangered families in 2009, whether or not they're children who need universal protection... For a long time, I am sorry that Mile Ilic is not here, we had a professor, famous Ciric, he talked about negative demographic movements in the SFRY in 1981, especially in Serbia. Everyone laughed at him and me. Here, today came this white plague in the most drastic form. More people die over the years than they are born. When a single mistake is made in social policy, policy towards family and children, that negative chain can hardly be stopped. You laughed earlier when I said we should go back to the village. We should go back to the village. But then all of its material potentials should be placed in these areas where decent life should be ensured, and that means the development of these areas, perhaps formal-legal stagnation of city centres and urban centres, but that is necessary if we want to survive, because large spaces on the territory of the Republic of Serbia are empty, when people are concerned and everything that binds these people to a particular country. That's where he needs a serious program. The next thing you know, the interesting thing is maybe it's not directly about this ministry and this chapter, probably some other organ, but to better understand me, I'm going to do a parallel with something that's happening right now in America. A few days ago, this Schwarzenegger, governor of California, finally joined this McCain as a Republican. He said one big line that meant a lot in America. I'm paraphrasing, he said about -- McCain spent more time in captivity in Vietnam than Obama in Congress or the Senate. You know, we all condemn what happened in Vietnam, the American invasion, etc., but as much as the peace movements of the 1970s were active in the United States, the movements that were against that war, the state never gave up its veterans. Never. Here, and McCain gets sympathy, just like George Bush scored negative points, because then he was Dad's son who was hiding out so he wouldn't go to the army. It's the respect of the state. We can talk about whatever we want about this America, first of all about the White House and their politics, but they appreciate that kind of patriotism, that's patriotism for them. You've put us in a position where a man should be ashamed of defending his country. We were the only ones who could make something -- that's what the people would gold. Take care of yourself. No one in their right mind wants wars. You're in power now, something happens, you invite some people, they answer that call; should they be guilty tomorrow for listening to their country? And that's how you treat people who have fulfilled the law of the prescribed obligation, and now they're guilty of obeying the law. It's totally weird logic. That's how a man who doesn't know what the state is. Because of this resonation, which has become dominant since the burning of the Federal Assembly, we have a situation that a few days ago the government has established a bill and sent it to the National Assembly, where a treaty signed by Boris Tadic in 2006 in America with Condoleezza Rice is ratified, where all our military potentials are made available to the United States. Please see how this twisted logic destroys the foundations of a society. So September 2006 it was signed. The president of Serbia signed on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia when it was in Washington. The government has now established it as the bill, the agreement, and offers it to the National Assembly to adopt it. Why isn't it sooner? Because it's now a softened National Assembly. There will be no rebellion of 78 radicals, but there will be a rebellion of 58 radicals, and 20 citizens will be calm. Why? If Tadic gets a sneeze, their mandates are gone. That's the story. Why wasn't it ratified in 2007? Why wasn't it ratified in early 2008? No, now political conditions have been created, because everything is broken enough. Whose agreement do we have to ratify? Who figured it out with who? With the United States, and they're the first to take away Kosovo and Metohija. I say abducted, you will say they have not been abducted, but the first to declare Kosovo and Metohija independence has accepted Kosovo and Metohija's independence. We're running the process now, we're running the whole story so that Eulex doesn't come to Kosovo and Metohija. Bogdanovic swears, Sutanovac, this great soldier, Cvetko, Boris Tadic swears to us - under certain conditions; Jeremic the poor man walks, talks something, once positive formulation, second time negative formulation, distracts the people, and on the agenda an agreement with the United States. By the way, you're mad at Montenegro, Macedonia, and you're still exorcising those people there, and you're bringing back Ivan Vujačić to America. He's had a little bit of it, so let's get him there a little bit more. What are these processes with you? It's pure schizophrenia. Citizens of Serbia, follow the assembly broadcasts, listen to what's being said here, there's no newspaper, it's not going to be on TV, this is the only chance you'll hear it. Unfortunately, there's no government, there's no Flower, there's no one to talk to. These guys can't say anything. Maybe they'll back up a little bit, tell from the DSS, from New Serbia, and those who stole the mandates -- where they can lift their heads, deceive God and people, plan here until someone throws them out.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6576	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6577	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of articles 85, 104 and 221. Six hours ago I warned that we could, the spirit of the Rules of Procedure is like that, to agree to extend the session, but that it must be extraordinary. I will read to you what it says in the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 85: "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly may decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18 hours if there are justifiable reasons for it, which the president declares to the MPs. "I didn't hear any reason here, except for the reason someone intended to do something. Secondly, if it continues (I have been leading the Parliament for two years and something), it can be extended by an hour or two, I cannot be making hostages here; it is only a question of who will faint first. Maybe this side here won't, because it doesn't listen. Those who have the will to follow something, I don't know, we're 12 hours in the congregation today, I don't know how I can take it anymore. This violates my right, that is, my obligation under Article 221 which says that the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the congregation. Is he also obliged to die in the congregation? Furthermore, a member of 104 was injured who said in his first position: "People's MPs", therefore, and the president of the Assembly and the chairman, "they are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. "What dignity of the National Assembly if we work until we fall dead here? I'm very protesting this kind of work. I've never been involved in obstructing the work of this congregation, but if you want us to look like the Assembly and work, then we have to work at a decent time. The fact that he thinks about sending us a bunch of laws like this on Monday and wants to start a session on Wednesday, I'm sorry, that's the government's problem, not this assembly's problem. Please, now, if you think tomorrow at 10 we'll keep working, we'll go home.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6578	Mr Shami, the heads of Parliament's groups have made an agreement, and we are very close to realising that agreement, that tonight we are working on an amendment submitted by a group of MPs to Article 5 of Sections 26 and 55: Mr Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, etc. It's the last amendment for tonight. That was the deal, and we're very close to realising that deal. I understand we're tired, but we need to understand the need to work anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6579	Madam Chairman, don't break your hands with the MPs. I'll make you talk to the Rules of Procedure by five o'clock, and you'll see what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6580	On Article 5, 21 amendments were submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 2(1) and (6) of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 22 amendments were submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6581	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Dragan Zivkov of the SRS parliamentary group, who is currently justifiably absent, submitted an amendment, based on article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the draft amending and supplementing the 2008 Budget Law. The amendment applies to Article 5 of division 22, in function 810, economic classification 424 - specialized services, in columns six and eight amounts 74,680,000 is deleted, and in economic classification 451, in columns six and eight amounts 370,500,000 is replaced by 445,180,000. With this amendment, the SRS proposes that budgets be allocated to the so-called so-called SRS. specialized services, whose purpose is unknown to us, shifts to economic classification 451, designed for sports clubs, which have huge problems in providing resources for normal work and operation. The government's explanation says: "The amendment is not accepted for the following reasons -- the budget user was in line with the funds set out in the 2008 Budget Act of the Republic of Serbia to carry out expenditures in the past part of the year, including expenditure on 424 - specialised services, whose erasure is proposed. In accordance with the above, the proposed amendment is contrary to Article 5(7). The budget system law, according to which beneficiaries of the budget can create commitments and use budget appropriations up to the amounts set out for each purpose in the budget. "In order not to read all of this, it is said that these funds are not intended for sports clubs, but for the maintenance of the 25th Summer University in 2009. We're having new affairs in the area these days. As for the maintenance of the 2009 Summer University, there have been re-emergences, shifts, and all of this is related to some specialised or specialised services. It seems to me that in this government everything specializes. We're not making these affairs, we're making those who are in the coalition government. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about rebalancing and amendments, this is an extraordinary opportunity to present something in detail. Although many things have been said during this debate these days, something that has not been said should be added. The strangest thing in all these days is the contradictions in the government, between the ministers in it. First, a statement by the Prime Minister that the budget for next year will be presented to the public soon, in 10-15 days and that everything from the coalition agreement will be met. I repeat, because of Serbian citizens watching the assembly session in these small hours, everything in the coalition agreement will be fulfilled. This means that the Prime Minister has publicly admitted that it must be done. Secondly, we have a statement from the World Bank that there is no sustainable announcement of an increase in pensions to 70% of the average salary in the following year. The budget deficit, they say, would be significant if coalition partners' wishes were met. That is the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, of the World Bank, more specifically, of the World Bank for Eastern Europe. That's where we should stop, ask ourselves what happens if this government doesn't listen to the World Bank. Next, we're getting into some more trouble. We have two statements from two Deputy Prime Ministers Dinkic and Krkobic. Dinkic says -- if it were to go further in the application of this law, there would be a collapse of the financial system, which will have a significant impact on the budget in the coming period. Krkobiæ says - pensions will be coordinated, and it claims categorically, with the movement of earnings not according to the Swiss method, nor to the US from 2005, but to the profits from which these pensions were made. If they were to align with the movement of profits rather than with the cost of living, that would be, says Krkobic, only five billion more to burden the budget. That's Krkobic's statement. I say that's not the case, and many experts will confirm it. We all know that here. The profession says the statement, at least, is ridiculous; such a statement cannot be made to the public by a vice-president of the government. The problem is that, for example, by 2010, it would be many, many billions more than Mr Krkobibic said. If we take the fact that the finance minister holds the key to the state register and, as Mrs Dragutinovic says, in a situation where the number of pensioners grows faster than the number of employees, it is absolutely not good to tie them to salary growth... Dear citizens, that's the statement by the finance minister. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that for the next year, the pension budget grant will be, I repeat, 200 billion dinars. I claim it's more money than it's been by privatising companies since 2001. Of course, that's what the finance minister claims, not just me, so I deliberately stopped and waited to see if anyone would react, but apparently those who should listen to my story don't listen. This is the statement by the finance minister: more than a quarter of the singles is the result of an extraordinary 10% pension increase, now, is already a fourth of all. The conclusion is that if nothing changes, there is no change in the law, but for the next year the separation would be increased by 50-60 billion dinars. I am sorry that there is no Mr Popovic here, who would understand me, since a man has been in serious business for 18 years. His participation in the debate was really constructive. If we take the fact that the World Bank says that this is impossible, to lead to an increase in the budget deficit by 2.7%, you can confirm that, we are left with only a realistic fact that there are only two cures for the emerging situation: that there is a reduction in the pension range and, as a major solution, there is no other, you admit it or not, that there are as many employees who could single out their pension contributions. It's the only solution and there's no one else. Nowhere in the environment is this situation, because in no other country there were such coalition agreements, negotiations, concessions, conditions and so forth, to come to power or to, as our people say, gain power. Ladies and gentlemen, all this I have listed is social, political and, above all, moral guilt and responsibility for those in power, not us, the opposition, because you always accuse us of something. You have to admit that it's the responsibility of the presumption of guilt. Speaking of guilt, I could also mention that I was looking for information about the information mentioned in this story, of course, exclusively about Mladjan Dinkic and his crew. I'm not making anything up, and there's writings in the printed media, not so long ago, two or three months ago, and it's shut up again, which shows that the media is under the control of those in power. Let us remember, I will remind the public, that Economy Minister Mladjan Dinkic and former Head of the Tax Administration Vladimir Ilic could easily be found on the defendant's bench of the Special Court for Organized Crime. They were charged with criminal charges Thursday, May 8th, to the Special Prosecutor's Office, suspecting that the organisers of a criminal group that turned the IRS into a private organisation to pursue persecution and terror against Serbian businessmen who do not belong to their political option. Dinkic, in his capacity as former finance minister, has been designated as an organizer, watch out, criminal association, and Vladimir Ilic, as former director of the Serbian Tax Administration, is co-organising. They are suspected that, between 16 February 2005 and 31 October 2007, they committed a criminal act of association, as well as the committing of a crime of abuse of official office by issuing illegal and illegal warrants for the execution of those and other criminal acts to subordinates in the Tax Administration. Nine more executives of the IRS have been reported. Names are listed, and I will read them to the public: Momcilo Kijanović, Ljubomir Samokresović, Miodrag Pavićevic, Tamara Samardžic, Milenko Kosanovic, Zoran Radoman, Jelena Petkovski, Slavica Petrov and Biljana Milic. They are suspected that, as members of the criminal association's group, they committed a criminal act of criminal association, and that, under the orders of Mladjan Dinkic and Vladimir Ilic, they committed a crime of abuse of official office. It is also said that they have knowingly and deliberately exceeded the borders of official authority and have damaged private firms, but also Serbia's budget. This story is about this subject we're talking about today. The Committee for the Combating Corruption of the Green Coalition has filed criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic on suspicion of committing a crime of abuse by failing to do anything to allow the collection of taxes from several Slovenian firms. This data is from members of the DSS. At one point, there were bombing headlines in the daily press about it, and then they shut up. I took advantage of the opportunity to remind the public, and also you, gentlemen of the MPs, which is what it is and that, as Mr Krasic said, he will be the first to leave you, Mladjan Dinkic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6582	I thank the MP Milan Škrbić. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, she has two and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6583	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is indeed an incomprehensible argument of the government why the amendment of fellow Zivkova is being rejected. He had the best intention, managing the SRS programme, that it was necessary to help mass sports in our country as much as possible. I have to remind you of that, and I talked about it a few months ago, that at the January session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a resolution on the model of sport involving the education of the youngest boys and girls was adopted through recreational and up to professional sport. We have been living in a country where the privatisation of major sports clubs has been announced for several years, and we Serbian radicals have been known to be true fighters against the sports mafia. This time, I must mention that I, like many Serbian radicals (just like Dr. Seselj in my books, until I go to The Hague), spoke of the fact that some politicians from the top of the Dossovic government being connected to sports criminals, especially the football mob, but I learned much earlier that there was a direct connection, specifically with Zarko Zecevic, also had an disfellowshipped SRS member Tomislav Nikolic. Therefore, even this time, since the Minister of Telecommunications is sitting here, I urge the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come to the National Assembly as soon as possible, which has already been to the so-called so-called so-called Law. a public debate. As a state, we have to do everything, starting with local self-government. This was a really good move by counterpart Dragana Zivkova, SRS MPs, to help those clubs that have no chance of survival until the moment we get into a situation to obtain conditions for privatisation. You see what happens to some of our clubs. After all, even at the football club "Partizan" mentioned Zecevic and the team around him left a wasteland behind. If we didn't move on, that whole story could take us a long way; it would involve, I believe, other fellow MPs in the debate, for the next hour. But this is really another proof that the state doesn't want to worry about our generations, it doesn't want to worry about sports, and that's one way, and you know it very well, as well as someone who professionally, highly professionally deals with addiction diseases and monsters of today's day, that our children get off the streets and focus on what their development is, with education, with education, and that's sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6584	Thank you. On Article 5, 22 amendments were submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Articles 26, paragraphs 1 and 3. Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. On Article 5, 23 amendments were submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 36(2) and (3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Svetlana Stojanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6585	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the DSS, I have submitted an amendment relating to the culture budget, in the hope that I will interest you in the problem of cultural policy that has not been mentioned in this House so far. I don't think I'm gonna make it through that much after 12 hours of work, but I'm gonna try. Serbia has no sustainable cultural development strategy, neither short-term nor medium-term, nor long-term. We don't know what our priorities are. We have not distinguished the areas of culture behind which the state must stand from those that can be partly budgeted and partly financed, as we have not decided any areas of culture and cultural life should be completely left to the free market game. We have not defined ourselves as instruments to develop and improve national, Serbian culture, so I wonder what we as a people will participate in multiculturalisms that are full of mouths. No law on culture has entered the congregation procedure, regardless of what can be read in the paper that it is. The 2008 budget rebalance is impeccable. We can't read from it the government's cultural policy. We see only the aggregated data for salaries, social contributions to the employees of the Ministry of Culture, the institutions of culture, but we don't know how many people are employed, whether there are too many or too few in the state budget. We don't even know how much budget funding each of the cultural institutions receives individually, how much National Theatre, how much Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the Serbian Archives, etc. The culture budget, no doubt, is insufficient. The rebalancing of culture, including information, envisions a budget of 6,888,000,000 dinars, 600,000 more than the adoption of the 2008 budget, which, of course, I look forward to. If these funds were spent on the basis of a strategy adopted, planned and in line with the general and public interest in culture, perhaps close to seven billion dinars could at least be done. But it's not like that. We've established the National Film Centre, but we don't have mechanisms that make money made by taxpayers' money back into the state register and use it to further develop film art. We've been talking about the book center for years, but we haven't established it. Specialized services in the culture ministry's budget, which appear in all budget sections, cost us 1,200,000 dinars, out of 6,888,000. The rebalancing says we're going to invest 20 million dinars in archaeological research -- which, at what locations? One or more? The remaining 1,180,000,000 we know nothing about, the government decides on them and brings special acts. From a brief explanation of the budget's rebalancing, however, we find something important. The Ministry of Culture is tasked with developing and promoting artistic creation, literary, translation, music, art, film, etc. This is said in the first of the three, though lengthy, sentences of the reasoning of the rebalancing for culture. If so, 472 – social security fees from the budget, and yet quite precisely, becomes interesting – 216.000,000 dinars are planned to pay special recognitions to artists for the national culture of the Republic of Serbia, and the schedule and use of the funds of this appraisal will be carried out by a special act of government. Why does the government even go to the Assembly with some budget law and budget rebalance when, in fact, it decides everything on its own and doesn't account for anyone? The very fact that the social protection of artists entered the budget, that it was recognised as something the state was willing to spend 216.00,000 dinars on, encouraged me to submit the amendment. I made sure that the proposed amendment did not disrupt the budgetary balance, the revenue and expenditure side. For the social protection of artists, we'll settle for 216 million dinars. And that's something, more than nothing. All I'm suggesting is that these funds get a little bit different. Here's how. First, most of the funds intended for the social protection of artists are used to pay contributions to the pension and health insurance of independent artists, artists who live exclusively from their creation. This solution is in the general and public interest, not the private matter of artists themselves. It's not social aid, it's not supposed to be about making artists, the more money an artist makes, the bigger the tax will pay to the state. It's not even a reward. The awards have been established, we can establish new ones, they are granted independently of the interest of society to provide social security for artists living from their creation, which every employee has. With the proposed rescheduling of already allocated appropriations, we would allow young artists coming out of art schools not to be forced to give up fully on art or to seek fictitious employment, any state service, and to find themselves again at the burden of the budget, but at the expense of art. They would have minimal social security if they could devote themselves to artistic work and live on art by confirming themselves on the market. The middle generation of artists, pre-retired artists, long employed in cultural institutions where they no longer see themselves or those institutions no longer see them, would have a way out. The status of an independent artist whose state pays contributions to health and pension insurance would give moral rights to cultural institutions to offer them a solution to go to the free market for art work, and the structure of employees opens for new artists and scientists and adapts to a sustainable cultural development strategy, which, unfortunately, we do not have. Secondly, I suggest that the lowest pensions of artists be adjusted to a pension of 10,000 dinars to add another 10,000 dinars, so that all retired artists have at least an average twenty thousand dinars. When we talk about pensions, we're talking about thousands of dinars. When it comes to budget items that we don't know anything about, it's billions. Third, I suggest we keep the so-called. National pensions. The number of artists who have made a top contribution to the national culture of the Republic of Serbia is tens of thousands. The independent artists I propose to contribute to health and pension insurance could regularly be paid out of the budget by 1000 - 1500, provided that the law, not by the government act, prescribes strict and precise rules by which artists obtain this right. I don't know if 216,000 dinars can cover what I'm proposing with the amendment. I'm starting to think that every, and the smallest, shift in that direction would be big and significant. The payment of contributions to health and pension insurance from the Republic budget has earned the rights of independent artists they have achieved for decades, until the state simply stopped paying them contributions. Finally, we received Mr. Mladjan Dinkić's law, a small law on amendments and additions to the Law on payment of contributions to social, health and pension insurance. Minister Dinkic imagined and made artists pay their own contributions, ahead of schedule, before making any money. The position of independent artists has not only deteriorated with Dinkic's law; art practice has become possible, with rare exceptions, only to artists of close authority. Depending on the goodwill of politicians in whose hands the register is, instead of the law guaranteed by rights, seriously endangers the freedom of artistic creation. The Ministry of Finance's explanation for why he refused this amendment did not surprise me. My answer to the arguments presented in the explanation is this: I have no objection to the payment of contributions for health and pension insurance remain within the Ministry of Culture's budget and to start by contract, if so must, if only this is in accordance with the Law on the Budgetary System, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must once, as soon as possible, pass a law on culture. By law, not by government acts, we must define the obligations and rights of artists, people who form our national identity, without whom we would not know who we are and we would not be needed by anyone. The adoption of this amendment, the only one submitted for the division of culture, would be the first, small, temporary but significant contribution to resolving the social status of artists. A permanent solution is to pass laws that will be applied, not ignored. In my deepest confidence, solving the social status of artists in general, and independent artists in particular, is of first-class general and public importance to our culture and state. I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6586	Mr. Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6587	Madam Chairman, the amendment submitted by my colleague Svetlana Stojanovic is, I think, very well explained and has obtained all the conditions to be accepted by the assembly majority. We'll see in voting day if that's the way it's gonna be. I'd like to refer to one of your comments about tonight's work. So we need to work until the 75th or 76th amendments, or 20 amendments per break. You justified that it was necessary to bring budget rebalancing as soon as possible, in order for other laws to come into order. I don't know why we have to endure these mistakes of yours from the previous period; we've been on vacation almost all summer and we haven't even done the laws you promised, and you promised 50 laws by the end of the year, and now we have to work day and night to adopt this budget rebalance. Is it our fault that it wasn't working this summer and that this poor budget rebalance came to the Assembly? Is it the opposition's fault, so she had to write 80 and some amendments and explain here that when you want to reduce public spending, you don't do it by taking social services, those who are the poorest, and leaving for ski resorts, giraffes and big cabinets. We're trying to convince you to give a few churches and these people who live in underdeveloped environments, and your answer is that we have to work until three in the morning, because at 11 or 12 or 3 in the morning, some people are going to get tired of going home and they're not going to explain the amendment and it's not going to go away. It's just not fair. I don't know why you're torturing Mrs. Matic to sit here. She can't even have a concentration. After all, he can't accept anything from these amendments, since she's not competent, he can't represent the finance minister. Mrs. Stojanovic mentioned here a strategy for Serbia's sustainable cultural development. I completely agree with that, the Ministry of Culture in previous years, and this year, in the rebalancing, has provided quite an amount of funding, which is unclear what they're going for. In doing so, I must remind you that the allocations for projects within the country, for people living in underdeveloped environments, in small cities in the south, west of Serbia, are minimal or simply non-existent. For example, the redistributions for the reconstruction of the National Museum in Belgrade or the National Library in Belgrade are several times higher than the allocations for all cultural projects of other cities in Serbia. If we want young and educated people who finish schools in large centres, and come from small environments that are underdeveloped, to return to these same small environments, to start their families, it will be possible if two conditions are met: the first is to have economic stability and conditions for existence and to have any cultural content that will attract them to stay there. If in Leban, Major, Surdulica, wherever, Književci, there is no money from the state that will help cultural projects, these people have nothing to see, to hear, they will have to go to large areas to live there. That is why the Ministry of Culture must take care of how it will finance cultural projects across the country, not just in the centres. Of course, the largest number of artists live in large areas, above all in Belgrade, because there are the largest institutions of culture. Don't forget these others too; and these others should live, and these others should have some cultural content so that they can afford a normal life in the 21st century. That's why I invite you to support this amendment, because it is meaningful. I would like to order the Minister of Culture to take care of how he will locate funds from his ministry for next year towards environments other than Belgrade, Novi Sad or possibly Nis. I'll just remind you, since I come from Nis and I have to keep mentioning it, the Nisville Jazz Festival is the most recognizable place in this country. Do you know how much he received last year for the organisation of the national festival – 800,000 dinars from the Ministry of Culture. (President: Time. I'm done. So that's inadmissible. With the support of the state and the Ministry of Culture, there are no cultural projects in small cities. Without these cultural projects, neither people will live there, they will have to go where their economic existence is provided and where they will have some normal living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6588	Vice-President of Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's Assembly, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6589	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is the topic we start every year, and somehow everyone always gets it done, when the budget rebalance or budget law is on the agenda. It is an important segment for Serbia and for our people, for raising our children and for preserving our national identity. And you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and I were born in a town that was still in 1835, right after the declaration of the Sretenjski Constitution and Kragujevac as capital, founded the Knjaževje Serb theatre, as we recently called it, "Joakim Vujic". We Kragujevci pride ourselves on the first Serbian theatre. Anyone who has come to Kragujevac, especially actors, professionals and amateurs, and for several years, since 2005, the theatre festival has been held in Kragujevac in the Theatre "Joakim Vujic", can see that the level of theatre performances of Kragujevac authors and directors is not far behind for the Yugoslav Drama, National Theatre, Athelje 212. These people, many of them are academic actors, are left to the care of local authorities and Joakim Vujic Theatre where they are employed. The same is true of the cruise theatre, the Sabbath theater, which often guests at the mentioned festival with their performances. We have a situation that the oldest Serbian theatre has a reconstructed facade; not only is it a historical monument of the town of Kragujevac, but it is indeed a symbol of that time in the so-called "Kragujevac". The complex of the Milosevic Wreath, which this Kragujeving government cannot fix, and these were pre-election promises from a few years ago... Also, as next to the Theatre "Joakim Vujic", therefore the first Serbian theatre, is the First Kragujevac High School, and then mentioning the complex of Milosevic's ropes, we have a big problem (not just us as a city, because it is a monument under the protection of the state) because of the collapse of a part of Milosevic's thread. I don't know how many times I have to appeal, I talked about it three weeks ago, and I haven't received a reply from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the monument of culture, where the literary evenings and many other events were held, which is a hotel building, an old building that wasn't always a hotel, and it's a symbol of the city of Arangelovac. Another topic that enters this area, which is the basis for the amendment of counterpart Svetlana Stojanovic, is certainly the treatment and status of our best artists who are in late years. A colleague of Lidija Vukicevic, as a prominent acquaintance of this area, as an impression of our theatre, spoke of the need to bring the so-called. A roof law that will cover the area of culture. Last year we talked about it, first she, and then me, because I was shaken by the fate of Professor Nesovic, who is one of our prominent experts in the field of education and education of people, in the field of solfes and chorus performances. It's a woman who has nothing to live on and who is today, as one recognizable artist and for those of us who have been fortunately working with her for some period of our musical education and growing up... Not less drastic than the case of our famous documentary director, Mr. Bajic, who, as you know, has been released from all the programs of state television just because someone in this day and age doesn't like his authoring work and everything he's recorded with his camera and the way he's done it. We have indeed this misfortune, as a people, that prominent artists from our country who have proven Serbian patriots are branded in one way or another by a government that seeks cosmopolitanism at all costs, tends to denecrate, forget our traditional values. Now tell me, please, how is it possible that in one country such people are not appreciated or at least not given recognition, although they are not asking for anything, if they are capable, such as our famous director, world fame, that he is not given credit in his country, in a country which he says is his country, in a country where millions of euros he has acquired worldwide by promoting his works of art, which are films that have passed not only his glory, but the glory of our people and this area. He was awarded the title of honorary citizen Buenos Aires and was met there by the mayor with a gold key and 20,000 people, while at the same time, directed by the DS, the Užic is organized by the haika and the haranga of that man only because he says everywhere and in every place he is a patriot, that he is an anti-globalist and that he has Kosovo and Metohija in his heart. Therefore, we will face the problem in the coming period; the passing years and we, unfortunately (don't God, but there is time passing, and some people are in late years), will see in the journal of RTS that one of these artists is no more without the state giving them recognition. Please, did someone from the moment Vukicevic asked the question (and then talked to us a few after) answer the National Assembly how the National Pensions Commission is being educated? Col. Stojanovic also knows very well that it is a group of people who decide specifically on the political likeness of individual artists, so some people, that they would drive those five who give to someone, get through and give them a national pension; it is indeed a disgrace and a shame for our people and for our country. If we want to be proud of what's most valuable to us, which is, above all, our monuments, our cultures, and our prominent artists, we can't treat these people that way. I won't, as I didn't say my name before, but I think my power of decry is so great that you've all figured out who and what it's all about, mentioning the name of another gentleman who in his late years, in the eighth decade of his life, and today the sea, even though the whole family is an artist's family... His two daughters, one a doctor and another a master of music, also carry fame as their father, who is a master and master of one orchestra. The man did not come in close choice to receive a national pension for his work and for his contribution to the field of music. That's how you treat what's truly true. That's how these people will appreciate you, and that's how all those who see that you prefer others, rather than what we have and what we should be proud of. From year to year, although it serves for various other purposes, Guca as a national Serbian brand has a problem with functioning; from sponsors to sponsors, from the charity of one or another government, from the inauguration of Dodik, like, he's a midwife, how to organize a Serbian Guch, we have come to the conclusion that in two years we have a Serbian trumpet jubilee, and that the state has not singled out a single dinar for the establishment of a trumpet school, although many prominent musicians and people who are engaged in this profession, such as Mr Christic and others, have suggested that this is necessary and that it is something that will indeed be necessary in the future everywhere and in each place in the best way to promote our country. You don't care that there's 400,000 to 500,000 people there every year. The minister said, and he used to be the director of the National Theatre in Belgrade, that he was not interested in it and that he was not following it, and this other (who was coming here today was short, or when), Milosavljevic, that he had a nasty maltene and thought of the Serbian Guch and the Serbian trumpet. Then what are we talking about? How many of you in the O.R. know there's a manifestation that's a legacy of original Serbian music? He knows Mr. Arsen Djuric, or Mr. Petkovic. It's a festival that was held this year on Zlatibor. Do you know who Divna Ljubojevic, who sold and sold seven of her CDs in one France, which is really, how a columnist wrote the other day, the chosen one, because as an angel and as an angelic voice, she promotes what we carry in ourselves, which is the Serbian Orthodox Church and our faith; with her voice, with a group of her people, she promotes what is most sacred to us, she also brings glory to our people and our nobleness, what is Orthodox faith. There are a lot of people like that, and there are few words like this, and I'm trying to find the best, to give them credit, if nothing else, because you can see that we're not able to help them any other way. But it's really a disgrace and a shame for a country that won't turn to what's best of our value. The event "Days of Dragisa Nedovic", a craftsman from Gornja Gruža, who wrote hundreds of songs, some of which you know, and you don't know that he was actually the author of this man who lived in Kragujevac's behalf, was moved to another town, not Kragujevac. Who is helping this event, and who is thinking about keeping what is most valuable, starting with the creation of the Mokranjc and to today's authors who are heritage to Serbian music, and that our children should learn about it at school? I think you'd have to pay more attention to all this, because these people have their own troubles, some of them can barely survive, some of them haven't been waiting for the state to solve their housing issue. You grab on to boards, public enterprises, where you have compensations from 200,000 to 300,000 a month or a salary of 10,000 euros, and about those people who have spent their whole lives devoted to culture, art and, above all, to your people and what is most beautiful in these areas you don't want and you don't want to take care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6590	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, 24 amendments were submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Articles 26, paragraphs 1 and 3. Budgetary system law. Here you go, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6591	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not surprised that this amendment of mine has not been accepted, but since it is the representatives of the Government and since the citizens listen to us, I would still like to say a few words about it. The purpose of this amendment was to point to the government's concern for a single institution that has existed for 60 years and which is being measured by the previous ones, but also by these current governments, right through the budget or now through budget rebalancing, slowly shutting down. It's about the Emigrant Matika of Serbia. She now has the status of an NGO. While the Diaspora Ministry has 46 employees, only two people work in the Matica of Serbian emigrants, of which only one person receives a salary. Although the institution has had special significance for Serbia for the past 60 years, it does not figure in the draft budget rebalance, i.e. it is not particularly stressed. If we look at division 24, function 410 and economic classification 481, where grants are made to NGOs, there is an estimated 53,000,000,000 dinars for different purposes; among other things, there are provided associations whose headquarters is in the country. The Serbian Emigrants' Mother could certainly have been included, but she did not. I know that the government would also have an answer to this question that could come down to the following point: Let the Serbian Emigrants Mother compete for certain projects at the Diaspora Ministry, and they will receive money for these projects. The Serbian emigrant's mother did so this year. We in the Serbian Parliament are witnesses that people from our diaspora, from America, were visiting the House of National Assembly. It was all organised by the Serbian Emigrants' Mother, and it was all organised at a very high level. However, if there is no money for such activities, they cannot be implemented. There are certain rumors that the Serbian Emigrants' Mother is taking up an attractive space that certain people are interested in and therefore needs to be shut down. Gentlemen, I want to point out one possible scenario in the future. Let the future Serbian Parliament, when it discusses the Ministry Act, conclude that we have many ministries. The opposition had that attitude in the last term, even in this assembly. For example, it can be concluded that for our country it's enough to have 15, 18 or, say, 20 ministries. We probably wouldn't have the Diaspora Ministry in this situation anymore. If we shut down the Serbian Emigrants Matica by then, then the question arises who will take care of our diaspora and our emigrants. Of course, you can also answer that question, you can say that you will assign such a task to a restor at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I think it is necessary to make an effort to preserve the Empress of an emigrant, which has existed for 60 years. The functioning of this organization requires minimal funding, for salaries almost zero, and for programmes - it is only 10% of the funds that are otherwise provided for grants to NGOs. Gentlemen, in the end, I want to show you that, although you have not accepted this amendment, you can go through this economic classification of 418 in this budget rebalancing law, as well as in the 2009 Budget Law, to single out and especially highlight the Serbian Emigrants Matika and allocate these necessary funds so that it can continue to function. Thank you. Gentlemen of the Radicals, you've made a special point, because you know better than to knock.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6592	Here you go, by amendment, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6593	In this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008 probably there are five or six ministries in this economic category, I think it is 481. She's running from the ministry to the ministry. It bids with different amounts, and the text is stereotypan - donations to NGOs. So as a non-governmental organization, they're not here right now, these from the Resistance. (President: Please do not disturb the speaker.) [[Intruder from the scene: Here, it is with you.]] ) It is currently being processed. It's all right, ma'am, it's a little harder to go, but it's not worth losing hope, it should always be persistent, because in that dialect between handsome and persistent it always wins. That's why we insist on pointing to some things with these amendments. If you take this as a joke, it's not bad. What's the point? We probably need that regulation on NGOs. You probably know, at the time of the expansion of these NGOs, I'm just going to take advantage of one example, there was a Buca Kovacevic from Kragujevac, I think you know him, since he was in that DOS conglomerate, I think he had about 60 registered NGOs inside his family. Buca Kovacevic was no exception, he was interesting at the number of NGOs, otherwise there are others, not to order them. Everything and everything comes out of us as NGOs. It is usually considered not to be under the influence of the government, not under the influence of the government, and does not enjoy the financial assistance of the state either, but we have received a new category of NGOs that enjoy assistance from abroad. It was something else in the translation. But the people in Serbia recognized it, to be clear. A few years ago, I think that's three years ago, there was a huge dispute at Miljenko Dereta, Sonja Licht, and these representatives of these sound NGOs, because they felt that they had great credit for the five-octobaric changes, that they needed a simple state to open up to them because they were doing a noble function in favour of DOS. Then there was a big dispute between these NGOs who would seize more, according to the system of revolutionary contributions. We have criticised it here, however, it has somehow passed. I remember there was a loud controversy about it and an accusation of who made a greater contribution, etc. The term NGO is now used in another way. So he no longer has that political charge, but under that name are practically represented by some other types of association of citizens, some even have extremely acceptable and noble goals -- childcare, care for some relationships, etc. But I think that name is so stained with us that it can make a very unpleasant association with a group of people who do some noble work. It can also be said "Safe House", a wide range of names that can be used and a large number of areas in which these people operate. As a rule, these are practically hobbyists who want to help, but there is no need to avoid this political part with very bad goals, or unacceptable goals for this society. As you have seen in this economic classification, not with this ministry, but with all the ministries, they very often appear. There used to be a rule, while social organisations existed, to fund their work towards the programs. Sometimes it wasn't exactly going strictly from the budget, but in a different way, but the programme's activities were financed. In my day it was the Ferraris, scouts and other forms of organization. These would be some NGOs today; at the time they were social organizations. Just to remind you, that part disappeared the moment Dusko Mihajlovic, Smoki and another destroyed the Alliance of Socialist Youth. That's what happened. There was a big dispute over what the youth took, what New Democracy took. The ideal creator of New Democracy is Dobrica Cosic. He is probably the best man for 50% of the parties in our country, and for the second half of the best man was Slobodan Milosevic. That's exactly where Mr. Micunovic was sitting, when he was kicked out by Djindjic, he went to Milosevic's cannabe first, so he said - he threw me out, and this one said - so what should I do to you. He says, "How am I supposed to go on?" So make a party. So how? So make a Democratic Center. That's how the Democratic Center came into existence. Don't get excited, I am in charge of knowing, as I know in 1996 Cane brought 500,000 marks, gave Djindjic, or Micunovic, to give Djindjic, by order of Jovica Stanisic, to preserve that protest and those sherpas. You know that. Cane boasted about it. Ask Žarko Korać when they considered all the variations to create a new cigarette factory in Kragujevac. Let me remind you of 2001 and 2002. So I have to remember everything, so take it as something doctrinal. Now, if you already have the need to finance something to help the government or to help some ministries better analyze some areas, then let it be programmed; of course, to use your terminology, transparently, clearly. But I get the impression or, to be even more precise, I'm absolutely sure that in these few years in these appraisals, there is a hoax and a purchase of political favor because in 2000 there was an American concept so-called. polititric action – from several places fewer people appear as if a large organization and they are focused on acting, focusing their political attack on one person, on one party and destroying the entire system. You successfully mastered it on October 5, 2000. Even so, some have tried in Georgia and other countries, so where they found the scrawny breasts, they got a larynx, so they came back here and they're forbidden to go there. It was also in Belarus, and in Ukraine and everywhere it was, but they got the prescribed portion. The best ones were in Burma; they simply banned NGOs and have no problems. The Russians initially released a little bit, so when they saw what was going on and they closed that valve, so there are no more destructive NGOs out there that are finishing something on some projects, etc. Why did I answer to say all this? To make citizens realize that by financing the work of these NGOs, they essentially buy their favor from the government. Or, they occasionally get the assignments to appear in the "Polygraph", in some shows, where they would then start as these political analysts -- almost, the result of political perversion. It's something that's going on. Now let me go back to this amendment. He's referring to the Diaspora Ministry. If we put aside the word diaspora and what it means in our nomenclature of power and go with what is the ministry's task, it was once the tasks of the ministry of relations with Serbs outside Serbia. I must draw your attention to the fact that this ministry has received funds from some of the political parties or NGOs in our immediate environment. I don't want to say names, so they don't find themselves called, but I've seen them at the promotional meetings of the DS and May of the month when the elections were held, and I have to say that according to the competition, the allocation of those funds was made. It is that the Pod got a little angry because you financed his angry competition. I think it's a kind of abuse of using these funds. We need those organisations for relations with Serbs outside Serbia; if we want to use the word, term - diaspora, what is relatively long abroad, regardless of what kind of immigration it is. It is necessary to cultivate cultural, educational, and all other relationships with these people. Let me remind you, while Foreign Minister Socrates, Goran Svilanovic, organized the stay of children from our diaspora as part of his ministry. When the children, born in America, Canada, England, etc., came to this camp here asking him what the effects of it were. He says it's a disaster. How's the disaster? He says, instead of bringing us European and world liquids, they're singing to us here our songs, our games and they've turned out to be bigger Chetniks than we can imagine. You see, when the minister is wrongly planted, how can everything go wrong, everything can be ruined. I'm really sharing a chill about it, if it's true that the Emigrant Mother has some space. According to the text of this amendment, I am sure that this space was smelled by Aleksandar Vukic or Tomislav Nikolic, probably these 4,800 are expensive for friends of Nicovic. I hear they're taking some credit again. The guy who gave them the credit, he broke in. This is what I'm saying to make you understand - when a citizen submits an amendment and acts here, then know that there's a prank behind it, absolutely some prank. You saw the one just this morning, everyone's criticizing the government, everyone's criticizing the Ministry of Agriculture, and he comes out and praises the Ministry of Agriculture. He wants the minister unconscious, he doesn't know where he is. How does a man, allegedly the opposition, praise the Minister of Agriculture? Where's that on the globe? There are those who have problems with their safety. There are those who sign the oath, swear to God, to the people, to all things, and then the loans take place, and no one knows where your loans are, who spends the money. Here, we're getting some bills now, and we have no idea what this is about. Then they say they're broke, they're safe, so they know what they've done. We don't want to pay other people's bills, private ones. Here, in two days, we'll finish what the prosecutor asked to supplement with the resignations and statements that were irrevocably resigned to the Serbian Radical Party. But, Mrs Kolundzija, I only draw your attention to one small detail: when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was made, the talks and negotiations on behalf of the SRS were conducted by Tomislav Nikolic. In order to protect the mandates of those political parties that won seats in the elections in all possible ways, he insisted on a solution set out in Article 102. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and Boris Tadic and others who participated in the talks warned that this may not be a good solution in view of the ruling, or the Constitutional Court's decision on the DSS constitutional appeal, some of the views of the Venice Commission. And it's over. It passed in the Constitution that solution. The idea for that solution in the Constitution Tomislav Nikolic found it in the text of this oath. Take the Constitution and read Article 102. He says - my parliamentary mandate will at any moment be laid down by the Central Fatherland Administration of the SRS, and I will obey her unconditionally. Doesn't this look like a legal-technically different formula? He says - and I am irrevocably resigning my political party. You see, it's not a slave relationship. You brag about lighting a candle. This is a high moral relationship. Don't step on any moral relationships. A man makes a vow. Don't go doing nothing like that. I know you guys have a lot of problems about how to swallow this, but you're gonna have to swallow it, somehow you're gonna have to swallow it. For what? Every other variant is worse for you. They go to jail anyway, don't worry, but politically for you it's going to be worse that other variant.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6594	On Article 5, 25 amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6595	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the LDP has tabled an amendment to this article on 5th division of 25th -- the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. This argument on page 142 is particularly interesting. The bill says: "This law provides additional funding of 200 million dinars, in order to realise the government's conclusion regarding the security of salaries reformed and extended local self-government, public services, police, as well as the material costs of cities and municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. "Of course, this is an explanation of the legislator. In this explanation, we cannot find people who are a little further from northern Mitrovica, Kosovo Mitrovica, who are out there somewhere in the Kosovo ghettos where Serbs live. So we can't find people who could be led under these "secured salaries reformed and extended self-government, public services and police, the material costs of cities and municipalities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija". However, in this article in this function 110 we can find services under contract, specialized services and grants to NGOs. This is about no funds; for example, contracted services carry an amount of 74,200,000 dinars, specialized in 65,000 000 dinars, and these donations of 180,000,000 dinars. Could there not be a way for these functions, as far as these costs are concerned, to be reduced and those resources to be given to someone who may need them more, to someone who can reach this reformed and expanded local self-government, to those police operating in northern Kosovo Mitrovica, to these material costs of cities and municipalities that are set aside for their functioning? For this very reason, we have submitted this amendment, counting that if we reduce the funds for services to 450,000 dinars per contract, so if it halved, for these specialized services also to 45,000 dinars, and for donations not to cut too much, but at least to 130,000,000 dinars, then there would be room for these people in the interior of Kosovo and Metohija, it is about Serbs, helping and preparing for winter. Often in the media, we can read and listen to how difficult and in what conditions these people live. However, by reading the draft budget rebalancing law, we did not find any means for these people to be referred to. It is a shame to ask for donations and help for these people, and in this way, the budget is being spent on the entire public spending, which is enormously large. You will allow, 200,000 dinars, as foreseen by the rebalancing, in addition to the funds planned earlier in the budget, to increase the cost of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija by that 200,000 more, however, is a little too much. In this regard, these functions have been quite common in the budget and in this draft budget rebalancing law. These services under contract, specialized services cannot be specified; in the light of this law, we have not seen what they refer to, these are rather mysterious classifications. For these very reasons, it would be good if a little less resources were allocated to these services, either by contract or specialized.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6596	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, 26 amendments were submitted by MP Gojko Radic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Articles 26, paragraphs 1 and 3. Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 26th Amendment, MP Olena Papuga submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 5th Sections 26 and 55a of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Laslo Varga, Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6597	Madam President, Madam Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is quite specific, for at least two reasons. The first reason is that the last one for today is the last one for tonight according to the agreement, and the second reason is that the Finance Committee supported this amendment. This amendment was the only one who supported the Finance Committee, but unfortunately, the Government did not support this amendment and that is why I have to talk about this amendment and convince you, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, to support our amendment in voting day. All MPs of the Minority Group have signed this amendment concerning the funding of national councils of national minorities. In fact, the 2008 budget provides for national councils of national minorities to have an amount of 150,000 dinars. Unfortunately, the situation is slightly worsened by the draft budget rebalancing this year, because the proposed rebalancing does not specify exactly how much it belongs to national minority councils, and we currently have 15 national councils, so 15 national communities have formed their national councils. When I say that there is no precise definition of how much of the budget belongs to national councils then I say it for the reason that the proposed rebalancing is quoted as saying "part of the means of this appraisal", it is about the division governed by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, "it is intended for the financing of national councils of national minorities and for the chairmanship of the Decade of Roma". We have suggested that this member is -- part of the assets of this 150,000 dinar appraisal is intended to finance national councils of national minorities. We also proposed a certain amount, the amount that was in the original 2008 budget, to finance Decada Roma. So, on this basis, it is quite a specific amendment, because we have proposed that more funding be allocated to national councils. We didn't propose to allocate less resources, simply, it's a methodological intervention, because if this were to remain this way then it could be a precedent for the 2009 budget, which could already be a problem. The national councils must know in advance how much the resources belong to these national councils in order to share that amount on the basis of certain criteria. It is no secret that the coordination of the president of all national councils allocates the proposed resources between national councils, on the basis of objective criteria such as numbers, i.e. the number of residents belonging to certain national communities, the number of members of national councils, the number of institutions of a specific national community, etc. This is why we propose to determine in a precise way how much the national councils of national minorities belong, as foreseen by the original 2008 budget. But there's another problem I have to point out to you, which is, we talked about both last and last year, that national councils are being held today as NGOs. It is simply not a state that corresponds to the Constitution and it is not a state that corresponds to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. This does not correspond to the provisions of the 2002 Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. Namely, based on Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, members of national minorities, may choose their national councils to exercise their right to self-government in culture, education, communication and official use of language and letter. National councils are not NGOs. National councils are not citizens' associations. Of course, national communities also have their citizens' associations, as everyone has, that is, can have everyone in this country, but these are not national councils. I ask the representative, or representative of the Ministry of Finance, to correct this in the 2009 budget, because national councils are the highest bodies of cultural autonomy under the Constitution and under the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. National councils are the founders of publishing companies, newspapers, cultural institutions, etc. The national councils should be a specific item, i.e. a specific economic classification in the budget law, and should see in particular how much funding is provided for the financing of national councils in the coming year and in the coming years. The important thing is that it was formed, on our proposal, at our request, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. The ministry has these days drawn up a working version of the draft law on national councils, and I hope that the draft law will be passed in the government by the end of the year and will be in front of MPs early next year, because the law should have been passed more than four years ago. This is the next step in regulating the position of national councils of national minorities in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. So far, I have talked about national councils, but ultimately I want to say that we would like national minorities to be more present in the 2009 budget than in the 2008 budget. We had some amendments to the draft budget for the current year a year ago. These amendments, unfortunately, have not been adopted, but I hope that we will succeed in the coming weeks to agree with the Minister and the Minister for Human and Minority Rights that these amendments, or amendments, are included in the budget, because these are very important things, which are not foreseen in this budget either, were not foreseen by the 2007 budget or budgets in previous years. This is, for example, the establishment of a fund for national minorities, which was also established in 2002 under the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. It is about funding projects of national communities in the fields of culture and information; it is about funding student homes whose founder is not a state but a non-governmental sector or traditional churches and religious communities. For example, the duchy Hungarians have four or five such dormitories and it would be very important that they finance themselves from the budget, because they have very important obligations, i.e. they carry out "very important tasks". We also proposed last year the adaptation of the churches of national minorities. The amendment did not go either, so I took advantage of the opportunity and the opportunity to point out the importance of these amendments and to appeal from this place that now, when we still have time to do so, we should consider these amendments, or these priorities, and that these priorities should be included in the 2009 budget and that national minorities are seen to a much greater extent in the budget than was the case in the budget for this year and in the budgets for the previous years. As far as this amendment is concerned, I ask the MPs to support this amendment, when the Government has not already done so, because it would be very important on the methodological side and it would be very good to have the 2009 budget formulated in this way. Thank you for your attention. Good night.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6598	First Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6599	I want to say that the parliamentary majority will accept this amendment and that we will vote for it in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6600	Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6601	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, on behalf of the MPs, I apologize to you, you are neither guilty nor obliged to listen to this, but fine. We still have time. It's only half past 12. I came out to support the amendment submitted by Mr. Pastor and his fellow Members of the Minority Group. I have a good memory, Mr. Pastor said that anyway, and he seemed to have had a similar amendment a year ago when we adopted this budget. It is perfectly understandable that there should be a more precise distribution of funds not only in this case, but in many cases in the proposed rebalancing, but I say this more because of what Mr. Pastor too – it is not too important to him what is going to happen for another month, but it rightly requires to enter into a logic of thinking that would be applied in the next budget that we will adopt in a month. I'm saying, this isn't the only place where, on the one hand, some things are secededed into a tiny worm, and on the other hand, some millions, hundreds of millions, and billions, are put into one category. A little while ago, when the amendment was made by my colleague Svetlana Stojanovic, she wondered where she was going 1,100,000, because it was only obvious for some projects, there she even knows where the funds are going, all depends on which profession the minister is; when she is the filmmaker, then she goes to the film shoot; when the minister is from the theatre, she goes to the financing of theatre performances. I could now quote all films and theatre shows funded from Serbia's budget. As a rule, they had something to do with the current minister. I'm just recommending that next time, the future majority take someone from the music profession. It's time for them to get some funding from the budget. I'm saying, there's no way that there's any way they can hide things, that they don't show up. Then there's going to be some items that are going to be a row of one million, two million, and then there's going to be some billions in some item for some of the work contracts. They're bad manners. Now I'm saying this not because of this budget rebalance, but I repeat, we're supposed to get the budget bill in the Assembly, the next year's budget. We haven't gotten that yet, and as far as I understand it, and we won't get there soon; just don't let it happen again in the second half of November to sleep here in the Assembly so we don't get into a situation so we don't adopt the budget by the deadline. I repeat, I will personally support Mr. Pastor's amendment. It is also a shame about the amendment, but also because of some other amendments, and not so few, proposed by fellow MPs from all opposition groups. They repeat what I said about this speaker the other day, it is a great passion for the government, because refusing 84 amendments means there is no will to talk to the Assembly. I apologize to the Ministry of Finance, but I'd like to see Mrs Dragutinovic here tomorrow, so she won't dream of us long after we've adopted the budget. I assure you that if this ossion continues, the Ministry of Finance's relationship with this assembly will be no good. After all, it will not be in anyone's interest, nor will it be the ruling majority whose fate is always resolved when the budget is adopted, and it will not be at will or the opposition that, by the logic of things, has the need for the budget to be as good as possible and higher. This can only happen if the Government, on the one hand, and the Assembly on the other hand, including the opposition, cooperate, of course, according to the rules of the game that usually happens there. If the government continues to ignore the Assembly and continues to talk that, when it comes to serious law (you will admit, budget rebalancing is a serious law, the budget is even more serious), it does not accept any amendment of MPs, it shows everything but the wisdom of that same government, or, if you will, that I do not use a summary noun, does not show the wisdom of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6602	First Mrs. Donka Banović, then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6603	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, when it came to the government's manners and passions, I would like to remind you all that on Friday, in the afternoon debate, I explained an amendment that also concerns the division of human and minority rights, the ministry, and that I also had the idea that from the item for JP "Skialstations" a certain amount was downloaded and used to finance national councils. Namely, my amendment was very simple. In fact, I wanted that sum to be the sum that was provided for still in force in the 2008 Budget Law. Mr. Pastor said 150,000 were scheduled for the work of national councils. I looked at it in the budget, it was a 168,000 figure. When it comes to manners, there was Finance Minister Dragutinovic, do I now think that she seriously did not listen to me, because the amendment comes from DSS MPs, and the DSS is currently in opposition? That is not a good manners, and that is the passion my colleague Shami spoke of. Do I now think that the Parliamentary Group is a minority, we see that everyone has signed and supported this amendment, had some kind of lobbying, to say some pressure to have their amendment accepted? So, I don't see why Friday wasn't given any signal. For example, you immediately got a signal that the Treasury thinks your amendment is good. My amendment didn't even have that signal. So, at the beginning, you refused an amendment coming from the opposition MPs. That's not good. The Democratic Party of Serbia immediately noticed that the budget's rebalancing was drastically cut in the funds foreseen for the work of the national councils. The Democratic Party of Serbia is very aware of how national councils of national minorities are, 15 so far, significant to all national communities living in Serbia. Congratulations to Mr Balint, I am pleased that the national councils provided or recovered the funds that were provided for, during the period when the Service for Human and Minority Affairs, headed by Mr Petar Lađević, was present. Mr. Petar Lađević has fought for this quite nice sum that the national councils have used so far. I also join Mr Balint's appeal, and I suppose he will have mechanisms to put pressure on the ruling majority again, because the ruling majority depends on their votes and it is good that they have this control package, so the 2009 Budget proposal will look at the needs of national councils and the money issue to be set aside for the Roma national community and for the Decade of Roma, so I also support my amendment, and, of course, I also support Mr Balint's amendment and the Parliamentary Group of Minorities. I'd like to ask the representatives of the government who come here to sort of put those prejudices aside. The MPs of the opposition are very serious people, we're going through this in detail, it's our task because we're analyzing it, we want to criticise it, but not criticise it, at least I'm never going to, so I'm asking you to at least consider my amendments and amendments coming from the DSS seriously, so you'll see that there are amendments that need to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6604	Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6605	It's wonderful that there's been a debate over a very important topic. Take it easy. What's the big deal? Today there were probably talks about twenty-something amendments, Friday was 50; almost all the amendments that were submitted were rejected by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The explanation and explanation of why they refuse is stereotypical, not to say identical. On the occasion of this amendment under discussion by the Government of Serbia, Mirko Cvetkovic, former Finance Minister and now Prime Minister, the finance minister, once an IMF representative for Serbia, of course under the watchful eye of Boris Tadic, said, Mr Balint, that your amendment is poor, that it is unacceptable and explained this in the following way: "If the proposed amendment contained only in itself the financing of national councils of the national minorities and the chairmanship of the Decade of Roma would be challenged by the financing of other NGOs, and how these expenditures have been carried out since the beginning of the year, the proposed amendment would basically be contrary to Article 5(7). Budgetary system law and Article 9. It's a bill of law. "The government's almost identical argument is for almost all amendments that have been rejected. So it's a serious lack from the government's point of view. I don't mind that Mrs. Kolundjia went out and said on behalf of the parliamentary, parliamentary majority that in the voting day they would vote for this amendment. It will likely provide the required number of votes to enter into the final text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. Then a problem arises, which is not only a legal-technical nature, at the Ministry of Finance, that is, with the Government, how will you solve it when the amendment is legally and technically imperfect. You'll figure it out. So you could solve the problem of the technical imperfection of all the amendments that have been submitted to this bill if you consider them celery, justifiable and acceptable. You rejected it all and rejected it. Why did this drastic change of mind occur? For the simple reason that without the vote of the group of MPs, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia could not be voted on. Those five or six votes are something without which they're not. You need it because you've already spent all this. You just came here to legalize. So, Mrs. Donka, they have a good pressure system. I'm not going into the essence of the amendment, you see for myself, and I have no intention of getting into the essence of the amendment, but I have to tell you, and to you, and to those watching this transmission -- we learned, we learned a lesson from this. Before you, we learned a lesson when that session was in the House of the People's Assembly, so Boris Tadic was present, and Laszlo Varga criticized Boris Tadic, and he threatened him from his place, so we protected Lasla Varga through the hallway, and told him that you had the right to speak from the pay phone what you think, even though he was Boris Tadic. It only took a few days for the group to support and make this government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't mind, it's your political position. I have to inform the citizens what a political stance it is, as it changes. Mrs. Donka Banovic is absolutely right. Mr. Balint is absolutely right, he wrote a nice amendment. He included two parts of this bill: the first part -- what changes, and the second part -- the existing state. Why? Because the service has become a ministry, the service has been cut off and it has been found that in this economic classification 481, under section 55a, 93,241,000 have already been spent, and there are no seen how many dinars. That amount is now in section 26, economic classification 481 - 76,805,000, but now the second name of the company, is now the ministry. So what's impossible about similar economic classifications, where it's about summing up some amount that's divided into more associations and organizations, has become possible. Just to pass this law. Here's the principle, there's the expertise, there's the numbering, not the opinions, as the lady who's now in rehab said, after that session that was held on Friday. You see how that changes. What's he changing about? The principled attitude is the same, he's based on it -- he's holding water until the masters leave, and it's based on principle -- we're going to give it to you, so much more is left to us. That's the point. They won't get angry, it's petty, it's part of it, so it went here, it went there, it doesn't matter. Where can you touch Junior Dinkic? He's got eyes to take out. You deny his authority, his profession, now the surplus, now the deficit, now the deficit, the deficit, the crackling Europe, Serbia stable. That's all the messages we get from this place. The burning of the Assembly is a democratic act. He knocks twice in a tree. ) Primitiveism. You knock twice with your foot, it's primitiveism, and this one set the assembly on fire and says it's a democratic thing. Yeah, right. I don't know if that kind of democracy has turned some of the congregations on for the past 10 or 15 years abroad. It doesn't work anywhere, people, anywhere. You're pounding on the sherpas there, you've got those sherpas, you've done nothing but damage, and we've done it twice (knocking twice in wood) -- disaster, primitiveism, the assembly doesn't work. Why? Why are you insulting the state? Why are you insulting the Republic of Serbia? Get this job done more intelligently, if you need to finish it. If you have to finish this dirty job, do it with style, don't do it so violently - 126, 128; 126 has become a criterion for everything in this Serbia. Give me some intelligence, cleverly cheat, overplay a little. You do a little politics, in the end; practice eloquence and breathing, if necessary. Like this, shut up, defend yourself with silence. The only argument you have is 126 hands in the air or, if it isn't, so can Thessaloniki, Bodrum, from where you want to go, I wouldn't be surprised if someone voted for you from the KP home. It wouldn't surprise me at all. The European man of the year, the Duke, and now -- here he is in prison. I know all of this was prepared for Pitiæ, to calm him down, but he'll come in line too, I tell you, it'll be his turn. It can't, your inner contradiction is dangerous. This internal contradiction is not ideological, not because of a political view of life in Serbia, but because of benefit. Here's evidence of kindness, I don't mind: Mr. Balint did the job he wanted. He said very seriously - why should I vote for this if you don't give me what we need. They need it for internal affairs, to fight there because they have two or three parties, etc. It all works out, there's no problem. Please do something that is a criterion, which is a criterion, which can be applied in any identical situation. We've had 50 identical situations here, you said -- no, it can't, it's contrary to the Budget System Act. Here, now I've read the government's argument, which she said - no matter what Balint suggested. But when Balint said -- you know what, we may not come that day when it's time to vote, the amendment immediately became highly meaningful, desirable, acceptable, etc. If my last name was wrong, I apologize. Of course, I don't want you to apply that criterion to the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, I don't want to. I want you to look at our amendments in principle, but unfortunately, I have not yet experienced this opportunity to see ideological dissent. I don't know what your ideology is, except -- grab the chair, pull the money, pull the board, pull a position, I don't care what's going on in southern Serbia, I don't care, my area of interest is Belgrade, the National Assembly and about two or three kilometers. It's your ideology. Of course, it is good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and these tiny hours to broadcast television from the National Assembly, because this is the only place where the truth is heard and the only place where we can discuss and thank the public service and RTS for respecting the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6606	Mr. Tomic, then Mr. Pastor Ballint, then Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6607	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable fellow MPs, for the sake of knowledge and conduct, Mr. Pastor, I am reporting by amendment, but because of your discussion. As for the laws you mentioned, look at the years that have come, so there will be a full expression of what I'm about to say. You will remember, when it comes to the government since 2004, which was the first law to be passed – these were amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs, where national communities have undoubtedly been given the chance to sit safely in this parliament, which was not the case until then. The establishment and full emancipation of national councils also took place at the time. Full coronation (of course, can always be upgraded) is the issue of national communities and national councils and everything that is based on these issues has been experienced in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where issues of human and minority rights are represented in more than one-third of the text of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'll remind you, you mentioned 2002, what should have been done then. You remember who was then Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia – then the president of your party, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, Joseph Kasa. No single document was brought then, a single paper was brought on these issues, and look at the government's activity since 2004 on these issues, in conclusion with the adoption of the Constitution, what happened then. I'm glad that your amendment will pass and I'll vote for it, but I feel human and as an MP, it's wrong that the same thing, just in some other package, can't go away because it's proposed by the opposition's representatives. But if you hadn't done it this way, is that because your support depends on certain things in this debate on what we're talking about tonight, it might have been better if all the members of the national communities in Serbia had bought skis and maybe they'd have boxed more for their rights in the ski resorts than this way has to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6608	Thank you. Mr. Pastor, come in. Hope, you're in business? And you are? According to the Rules of Procedure? Replica. Then Hope first, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6609	I'll do it real quick. I call on Article 101, and I just want to say, the truth is that as parliamentary majority, we have accepted the amendment of the National MP Milica Radovic from the Democratic Party of Serbia and that we have also accepted Mr Markicevic's amendment, or an amendment with amendments and additions to Mr Markicevic. So, just the fact that it works, it's not true that some amendment was rejected just because it was proposed by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6610	Thank you. Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6611	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the truth works, I have a few facts to say. In 2002, when Mr. Joseph Kasa was Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there was a Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. It is also true that that law was then passed in the Federal Assembly, since there was a federal state and it was within the jurisdiction of the federal state. On the other hand, don't think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we are so cheap that we support this government just because it has accepted this amendment, which does not intend an increase for a dinar. We just intervened in the methodological sense. That doesn't mean we've changed our minds, Mr. Krasic, about the Democratic Party or about all the other parties. We thank the Democratic Party of Serbia for supporting this amendment, but I have just said which amendments last year have not passed, in connection with improving the position of national minorities, in the 2008 budget. We all know what a ruling coalition existed back then. We are grateful to all parties who are aware that European values include improving the position of national minorities. But the issue of privatising media in the languages of national minorities has not been resolved. No law on national councils has yet been passed, they are still not financed from the republican budget of the national minority institutions. Members of national minorities are still under-represented in the authorities of the state administration, police, customs, etc. We hope that this will be improved during this government, but unfortunately nothing has been done in the previous period regarding the privatisation of the media, regarding the adoption of legislation on national councils, on measures to improve the participation of members of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration. I call on all MPs and all parties to work sincerely to improve the position of national communities, and the national communities will certainly know exactly which party is less and which party has done more to improve the position of national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6612	Thank you. First Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Markicevic by amendment, Mr. Shormaz, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6613	I answered, but I can't answer all the things the gentleman said before, because I didn't even say it. I was just talking methodologically and in principle why an amendment was adopted, and similar amendments were not adopted. I will only be on hold, since the gentleman has said before me, or has warned me that they are not so cheap and that their mission ends only on this amendment. He said it very nicely. I just said before that this squawk, the parliamentary majority and so on... However, Mrs Kolundjia said that she accepted the amendment on behalf of the parliamentary majority, that also means on behalf of the applicant for the amendment. That's very significant. So, that squawk, those five votes are necessary for something big. What accounts you're going to make for them, I don't know. What a deal you made, I don't know. All I know is that you have officially said that you support the European government, the pro-European bloc and Boris Tadic. I know a year and a half ago I had to stand between Boris Tadic and Lassla Varge to get Lasslo Varga out of the National Assembly safely. I said, "If anyone touches you, answer me, I will defend you." That's the correct thing to do. I'm still staying on it. But I've criticized this majority as it unprincipledly approaches the amendments. If that's the formula that you managed to get your amendment through, let's fool them - when I write the amendment, you sign. So it's a sure formula that the amendment will pass. When the new budget for the Republic of Serbia for 2009 is on the agenda, we will write five amendments in favour of the social protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the development of underdeveloped areas, with a request that you sign those amendments, as if they were yours. When we're done, we'll be sure that these amendments will be adopted. I'm absolutely sure you share your opinion about what I said. So I was just talking about one technique, about how this pro-European government works. Now, when you've seen what this pro-European government looks like, if you're principled, you're probably going to have to make some kind of a deviation, that's some new expression, to move away, to make a clear distance, because in this general mix-up, it might happen that someone misreads that you share some of their values; in this general condemnation of the government for crime that you too are collateral damage based on crime. But it's by the system -- whoever with the devil's pumpkin plantes has to take care of his head.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6614	The word is Mr. Markicevic, about the amendment, and then Mr. Shormaz. Mr. Markicevic first showed up tonight, which is why he has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6615	Dear presidents, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, good morning. I would like to comment on what my colleague Hope Kolundji said through this amendment story. She only told half the truth. So I have to say that it is an amendment that has, in the name of the ruling majority, accepted it, and it is for respect, because New Serbia has no veto right, as has a parliamentary group of national minorities. I really got the impression that they accepted this amendment by Mr. Balint Pastor under pressure. Anyway, it's a good thing he's accepted. But since I said that Mrs. Kolundzija said in part the truth about what we agreed, I agreed to amend the amendment, to God that I had made a mistake, to accept it, not to leave the cabinet of some Deputy Prime Ministers, but I received a promise here that the minister would come out (all day waiting for that promise to be fulfilled), that one of the ministers or ministers, as they change... I know Mrs. Matic has no idea what I'm talking about, the woman here is on duty, like a fire department in the army, I don't know who's gonna be the next minister in the morning. So I'm gonna have to explain again here what's going on. And I have a promise from Madam Vice President Comic. I think, Madam President, that you know what I'm talking about and that the citizens of Serbia know. It's the 12,000,000 for our fellow citizens who had an accident (and we were lucky to be alive and healthy) that disabled people and those 12,000,000 are meant to build sports fields where they would try to play sports and live as normal as we are healthy, and tomorrow we can, God forbid, get everything here. I have been waiting all day for the promise to be made, that one of the ministers or ministers, who are changing here as on tape, will come out and confirm that amendment. Since that has not been achieved, I claim that as a man and as an MP who has agreed to amend and to confess to God that he has made a mistake, just to have that amendment adopted, this promise is not enough on behalf of the ruling majority. Because, in that voting day, as far as the ruling majority is concerned, I was fairly and recently, 90% of MPs do not know what they are voting for, which the amendment votes for, and there is a great risk that the amendment is not voted on. I expect that promise to finally come true, Mrs Matic, that you too may join in today's work, we have somehow neglected you here, to come out and accept the amendment in the name of the ruling majority. To be honest with you, as tired as we are, as funny as this may seem to some, to go out for a pay phone, if you don't know about these phone subscriptions, why is it increased by 200 percent, you must know that these 12,000,000 are for our fellow citizens with special needs and that's how we end up happily this day's workday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6616	Mr. Shormaz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6617	These two minutes left for the DSS parliamentary group are also enough, and we are not tired, although a new working day has begun. I hope that the President of the National Assembly will finally do what we talked about today in the Rules of Procedure. I think she still owes an apology to the National Assembly for that interview and for what she said yesterday, the day before yesterday, I don't know what day, that MPs shouldn't block the work of the National Assembly. I have also tried to transfer money from the ski resort and the administration of the joint services (buildings, vehicles) to the military, at this time today, as long as it takes. It didn't work. I understand that Mrs. Kolundji couldn't accept that, since that money was spent, and even eight hundred million more than the budget predicted. How? I don't get it again. But it is interesting that the parliamentary majority shows greater seriousness than the government. I have a proposal for an end for you – that you change the government nicely and that from the ranks of MPs you now have choose a new government, as the parliamentary majority. So, choose a new, more serious government, when you understand these problems better, you accept, here is the amendment of Milice Radovic, and that amendment, so you agree with Markic. So it's obvious you're more serious than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have 128 votes, you change these, you come. Maybe it won't be thrown out of work in one day by 400 people in Chačka, 150 in Livnica Kickinda and, we see, tonight, 232 in Vital - 1000 today; and where are those 200,000 you promised to be employed? So I believe you can do better than Vlada Cvetkovic - Daček, I am convinced, so I suggest you change this government nicely. We'll help you with that. You have 128, select new ministers and no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6618	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by MP Radenkovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6619	Fifteen minutes after the amendment, right? We absolutely support the amendment. Since the ruling coalition supports the amendment, so do we. I'd just like to continue this part of the session, if we can, get back on the subject and talk about the amendment, forget about those ski resorts and all the other stuff. I think we're all a little tired, so there's no need to use everyone now for 15 minutes per amendment, because this is going to take a little bit longer. I hope that this request and my request will be answered by all of us, to be a little more reasonable, to get this done as soon as possible and to continue our work tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-03-0.u6620	Madam Minister, Mrs Smiljkovic, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10. I'd like the heads of Parliament to come to me at 9.45 p.m. to discuss tomorrow's work. Thanks again. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, the presidents attend 152 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that at this point, 115 MPs are present, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sessions: Munir Poturak and Nikola Lazic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Mrs. Ruzica Stojiljkovic, assistant director of the Treasury Administration. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Budget of Serbia for 2008. THE YEAR AND AMENDMENTS OF THE FINANCIAL PLANS OF THE REPUBLICAL FUND FOR THE PENSION AND INVALID SURVEILLANCE, NATIONAL SURVEILLANCE SERVICES AND THE REPUBLIC GOVERNMENTAL SURVEILLANCE FOR SPECIFIC SPECIFIC SURVEILLANCE (the follow-up in particular) BY THE RURSE, Mr Tomic, then Ms Milica Vojić-Marković.
