ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3066	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, formerly respected presidents, and as of today, the highly respected president by Ferza Celovic, a citizen of Bosniaks, Muslims by faith, I made a deal on Friday with the head of my parliamentary group, asked me not to come yesterday, and today, knowingly, to break the standards of Islam to which I belong, and not to violate it in my understanding, but to apply it. Gentlemen of Christians in this congregation, gentlemen of the Orthodox, with great respect on my part, both of them, today is Bajram, the most sacred holiday in Islam. I am a Bosniak citizen of this Serbia, I recognise Serbia as my country, personally my country and the Bosniaks who say that; those who do not say and are not citizens of Serbia. It's an extraordinary honor to me, and I'm afraid of that honor, and I'm afraid of God not to make a mistake, but I won't. To all Islamic believers, I congratulate Ramadanski on the traditional greeting "Bairam Sheriff Mumbarek Olsun". To my Priboys, the Serbian neighbours, I repeat here, I have said this many times as a small politician in the Priboj municipality, if all the Serbs in Priboj had thought that all the Serbs in Priboj had thought as many of those who represented them, there would be none in Priboj today or there would have been few Bosniaks. Please, I highly appreciated and appreciated the discipline, I was hoping that it was a conscious discipline of the SRS, and I have my reasons for saying so; when Bajrakli Mosque burned the then deputy president of the SRS, Mr Nikolic came out for a pay phone and said publicly – if I were the president of Serbia, I would invite all the ambassadors of Islamic countries and apologize. I want to believe he said it honestly. But not to spoil the politics of what I'm honored to do. You will allow me, when it is Christmas on behalf of my Bosniak people, my faith, to congratulate Christmas from this pay phone to all Serbian citizens, with a traditional greeting. Thank you very much. Madam President, by this act, by your permission today, by our consultation, Madam Chief of Parliament Group to which I belong, you have morally committed me, and all Muslims in Serbia who plead as citizens of Serbia, who recognise Serbia as their country, who recognise Belgrade as their capital, who know perfectly that Bosnia is their home state and that Sarajevo is their spiritual circle; as Serbs from Republika Srpska are the parent state and Belgrade is their spiritual circle, but Bosnia is their country, Sarajevo is their capital. Please, gentlemen, don't at this time, when Serbia is in this position... I'll be done in five seconds, if you'll excuse me. If my discussion causes a replica in this congregation, you will spoil my intention in all of this. And this situation in which Serbia is in Europe today can bring negative points. I wouldn't want to, if you want to, and it's democratic, you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3067	Thank you. To inform you that the authorised representative by this point for the SRS is Mrs Vjerica Radet, and for the DSS parliamentary group Miroslav Petkovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Jojic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, in the light of the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. I come from Pancheva, and yesterday, tonight and today in Pancheva is an extremely difficult situation for more than 100,000 citizens who have been exposed to poisons from the southern industrial zone; pollution has exceeded all possible measures and all possible criteria. People of Pancheva were in a very difficult situation tonight, some even thought about leaving Pancheva, as the southern industrial zone endangers the lives of tens of thousands of Pancheva residents. I ask the question, that is, whether the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dulic, has been informed of this and whether there is time to go immediately, without delay, to Pancheva today and to make sure that the situation regarding the poison and pollution currently present in Pancheva. To remind only the citizens of Serbia and the MPs that Panceva is the first city in cancer. This is due to the southern industrial zone, so three factories, which have dozens of plants, produce the dirtiest products and technologies: the oil refinery, which has more power, Petrochemy also has more power plants, Azotara. It is the state that must now come to the aid of the citizens of Panchev so that the citizens of Panchev may live because they have the right to do so. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as is known, draws huge material resources from the southern industrial zone. I will only remind you that the exports of Petrochem in 2007 amounted to 280,000,000 euros. Panchevo municipality cannot solve this global and very difficult problem in Panchevo. For this reason, on behalf of the citizens of Panchev, I ask that the Government of the Republic of Serbia allocate enough funds to resuscitate the facilities... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... to enable the citizens of Pancheva not to suffer such consequences. I note that the municipality of Panchevo cannot resolve this state, for the citizens of the Pančevo municipality, an extremely difficult problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3069	Your suggestion will be addressed to the Government and the Resoring Minister, Mr Dulic. Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3070	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I appeal to Article 27. I don't know which time I'm trying to convince you to systematically violate the Rules of Procedure because you're taking up the time that belongs to the SRS parliamentary group. I called today to repeat it and to draw attention to the fact that today is the United Nations Day, among other things, and to draw attention to you that these days we in this congregation have informed you of what is coming, what is going on. You did not believe us, but last night you received information from The Hague tribunal that Vojislav Seselj had been abolished by any communication with the legal team that helped him prepare his defence, thanks to you as president of the National Assembly, in a coalition with the President of the Republic of Serbia, a certain Tadic, allowing an unidentified group to be represented here as MPs, and it is a group whose head is a man who is involved in something called attempted murder. Announcing something and presenting it as a transcript of a confidential conversation, he achieved his first goal – he abolished the communications to Vojislav Seselj and now he has no defence. Vojislav Seselj no longer has defence because the Secretariat has banned him, because he says he has grounds to believe, based on what has been published in the media in Serbia, that communications have been misused not only for defence but also for other things. I am informing you that this attitude of yours is about who is an MP in the National Assembly and you have moved to the other side. We have officers of the Hague prosecutor's office here. It's an incompatibility function, how can an official of the Hague prosecution be a member of the People's Council? Some are fighting for the life of Vojislav Seselj, and some organize performances as if they were taught by Mićko Albianic and then come out for a pay phone and the general public cheat, cheating on the story that because of one amendment someone left the party. I appreciate that, if it's true, but how can he carry a mandate; so he wasn't born a Messenger of the people? Know that you are the contemporaries of an attempted murder that takes place in the UN tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3071	These are already known findings. I explained and answered this question and gave this finding during yesterday. Mr. Spaho Suleiman, then Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3072	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting under Article 104, and I'm going to quote it, "It's not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor is it to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. "Citizen Tomislav Nikolic, you have in today's "Kuru" in some way offended my dignity and now I speak to you personally. In the 1990s, when we fought together against... (President: Mr Spaho, everything you're talking about should refer to events in the Assembly, not to possible contents of "Kurir". I called on Article 104, and I want to say what's in "Kurir" published today. (President: You cannot analyse the daily newspaper. That's a violation of my dignity, the dignity of the MPs. You won't get me out of here until I say it or a warning, you won't be able to get me out of here. I'm fighting for my family, just like someone else is fighting for the SRS. Let me take it out, that's three minutes. (President: Continue, but please find a button between the member you have called and the content you are talking about. I'm explaining to you what's in the paper today. (President: Please proceed in three minutes. The point is that for 18 years we fought together against these and I, Mr. Citizen Tomislav Nikolic, was fired because I was a Serbian radical. I sold things, like you told me, to support my family. I went to Quantash, sold peppers and tomatoes to survive, because of these "left" that they fired me. We fought them together. I don't know any tycoon so I have for life, but what you've done now, what you want to kill whoever gave you everything, and that's Dr. Vojislav Seselj... You know very well that the post of MP doesn't mean much to me, I'll manage. You know very well that Mr. Delic sits here thanks to me. I was suggested by Mr. Vojislav Seselj to be Vice President of the Assembly. I came to you and said it's not for me, I don't feel able to perform that function. Which one of you who crossed over there would do that? No one would, just Spaho Suleiman. I asked you to go to Dr. Vojislav Seselj's office to say that Spaho Suleiman will not be vice president of the assembly. I deserve what I am now in the Serbian Parliament, I have been fighting for the SRS for 18 years. I feel bad for fighting with you, and there are a lot of things we've talked about, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, privately, but I'm never going to bring it up... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Because of you and your family and your children... (President: Please finish. )......................................................................................................... It's not their fault that you're a traitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3073	Mr. Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. I'm asking for information from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on a financial transaction made by this ministry. It's about the transfer of funds to the private humanitarian organization of the Government of Divac. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy paid 40,000,000 dinars to the humanitarian organisation Divac. It violates the provisions of the law... (President: Mr. Buha, please, you can talk about everything related to this agenda item. Does that have anything to do with the judge's resolution? I don't think so. It doesn't matter, but it has to do with the D.A.'s office and a felony has been committed. Okay, let's try to hear the connection. Here you go. ) A criminal offence has been committed, and I am informing the public prosecutor to take all the action. The provisions of the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, have been violated, unintendedly spent on 40,000,000 dinars. The same ministry has, in accordance with the provisions of the Ministry Act, all the powers to carry out tasks for the integration of refugees and internally displaced persons. This is a non-intentional payment to a private fund. The Ministry has no right to do that. On the other hand, if he wanted to help refugees and internally displaced persons, he could have done it differently. We have a Commissioner for Refugees, they could transfer funds to the Commissioner and the Commissioner would carry out those actions for which it was founded. This is about unintended use of funds, so I'm calling on the prosecutor to take all the necessary action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3075	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 221, or I am exercising my right to Article 221. A Rules of Procedure which says that the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly, and I also call for members of the 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As an SRS MP, elected from the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, who was first on our parliamentary list, I am obliged to fight for the life of Vojislav Seselj in every place, in front of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and in front of the citizens of Serbia. I read these days as the citizen Tomislav Nikolic said that he was offended by Mrs Jadranka Seselj when she asked him publicly in the paper – are you happy now, Tomislav? And I'm asking him now - are you happy now, Tomislav? Last night, The Hague tribunal's secretariat banned Vojislav Seselj from privileged talks with his legal advisers and his legal team with the reason that there was a reasonable doubt that these talks were used for other matters, not only for defence issues by Vojislav Seselj. That conclusion was reached by the Secretariat based on false stenograms Tomislav Nikolic made public in Serbia's media. In this way, last night's decision by The Hague tribunal secretaries Tomislav Nikolic began to fulfill his tasks to Boris Tadic, Manter, Serge Brammertz and others, so by isolateing Vojislav Seselj from his legal advisers at a time when he cross-examinations witnesses. Tomislav Nikolic knows perfectly what legal advisers and legal team mean at a time when Vojislav Seselj is questioning cross-species of the prosecution. As of today, he cannot do it anymore and it is quite clear that this is the beginning of what the UN tribunal is up to and for what unfortunately it has found satellites in Serbia, even former members of the Serbian Radical Party. Since it's three minutes, I'll get back to you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3077	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, then Mr Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I don't understand the language my former friends speak, I am obliged, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, to point to systematic lying. So, I read the paper, too. (President: Mr. Nikolic, which member? ) Articles 225 and 226. It says in the paper that the prosecution decided not to discuss defence with its advisers exclusively for a month, and that there is a reasonable doubt that these talks serve to intimidate witnesses. That's what the paper says. What does this have to do with the stenogram I published? A single word about The Hague tribunal is not mentioned in the stenogram. It's only about what you say isn't true at all. So for a month, the UN tribunal will not deny the defence and talks to Vojislav Seselj, but only to monitor who it talks to and what it talks about. He hasn't been denied any communication at all. Whoever says that is lying. I am not involved in the murder of Mr. Vojislav Seselj. How can you not be ashamed? Beauty, I've just met you completely. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] This is all for me to get to know. I'm 57 years old, and I didn't know how to judge people. You know, me too, that's right. We've met really well now. (President: Please, dialogue is not allowed. You've been given the word to address the Assembly. Please don't disturb the speaker. ) You can organize it all; continue to ensure that Vojislav Seselj has a card to talk to you on the phone. It doesn't cost much. You provide some money, as I provided. He can talk to all of you every second. If you think you're going to do anything else, say a curse to whoever denied the phone calls, and say, "God, his hand is dry, his leg is dry." That way of fighting is the most effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3079	Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3080	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I have to call you back. You are a permanent violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure. You made it possible for a citizen to come here and confess. He confessed everything. As you can see, Natasa Kandic has changed her gender. The proof of that is applause. He also got it from "yellows." When Bosko Ristić applauds, you understand. Take it easy, we'll explain everything. An integral part of what the D.A.'s doing is that Vojislav Seselj is forced by a defense attorney. Under that requirement, he is also banned from communication. Probably this citizen who spoke before me is aware of the fact that, from December 2003 to August 2004, Vojislav Seselj had a ban on communication to prevent that citizen from winning the election. By abolishing privileged communication, Vojislav Seselj no longer has defence. The citizen managed to achieve his goal of weakening the SRS, to ban communication with Vojislav Seselj so as not to have a quality defence. Otherwise, let me just warn you of one thing: if some curse is irrational, this citizen's work is realistic. The result was that the right to communicate was abolished. If anyone says they have grandchildren, then Vojislav Seselj has grandchildren. I guess he should see his grandchildren, too. Just so you know, Vojislav Seselj was given his last warning, that it is possible to abolish his visitation rights. So, the citizen has succeeded in his intention -- to weaken the SRS. That's very friendly and godfatherly, though. He went out for a pay phone and said he claimed that phone communication on the privileged line between Seselj and the defence team was misused. The fact that you've said it here is hard and the D.A.'s office. The defense doesn't exist anymore. Right to visit, you can count on it not to exist. We announce what this operation is, "Go ahead, Serbia". It's all illegal, paramilitary, secret. It's not even an NGO. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you allow someone to sit here and brag about their actions. What's his job?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3081	Mr. Krasic, you accused me of constantly violating the Rules of Procedure. I would just like to tell you that on several occasions I have explained that there are only MPs present in the room and that, as the first among the equals, I am obliged to give my word to the MP, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm doing. Please don't inform the public with this content anymore, because both the public and the MPs have that information. I'll take that as an abuse of the Rules of Procedure and I'll give you a certain measure. Mr. Milan Avramović, and let the Free Maras be prepared, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3082	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, in accordance with Article 226, I ask you a question as to who will give you a warning measure or some kind of sanctions because you punish or warn Serbian Radical Party MPs to violate the Rules of Procedure even though they did not do so? So, if you say that, in accordance with Article 226, an MP is obliged to tie his question to the agenda point, which is absolutely not true, then who will give you a warning or some kind of sanctions when you are not acting like that? Who's going to make up for those warnings and that money you took from the SRS because they were telling the truth from this pay phone? Will you, in accordance with Article 100, answer my first question? The second question, in line with Article 225, is asking for notice whether the blow made by the citizen Nikolic was a blow to the Serbian Radical Party, to the defence team or to the president of the Serbian Radical Party himself? Any answer I get on these three questions, we'll know what it's about. Please, since you know that your strokes are well staged and cut, don't let them hit you from this pay phone advertise that way. We're not little children to do certain things here for no reason. We have our obligations as MPs. And citizens have their obligations as citizens. When citizens become MPs, let them exercise their right, and we, as MPs in this assembly, do our own rule of conduct and work as messengers. So separate those two facts, don't combine the agenda point with the members of 225 and 226, even though a member of 225 says that there is such a possibility, and punish yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3083	Mr Avramovic, regarding my work, the Assembly in the voting day can declare whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure, and your legitimate right to suggest it. On the other issues, I think it's political issues, and I'm not sitting here to give answers like that. If we ever find ourselves in the same tribune or in a situation that we can have political dialogue, I can answer those questions, but not in the Assembly. Mr. Free Maras has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3084	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have reported for violation of Rule 100 of this Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with Rule 27. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, you injured a member of the 100th Rules of Procedure when you gave your first speaker a word today. He did not quote a member of the Rules of Procedure, he spoke for about five minutes. I have no objection to any MP, especially to the Members of the Muslim religion congratulating the Muslim holiday of all citizens of Muslim faith. I object when the President of the Assembly, more precisely the president who swore to us at the beginning of her term of office, assured us that all MPs for her would be the same, from the ruling coalition or from the opposition... What kind of situation are we in, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic? Last night was a TV show, you tried to convince citizens that the opposition was guilty of obstruction. Indeed, what is happening in the congregation of the previous days is not interested in anyone, I suppose, except those who like to listen to things that fall into the picnic of relationships between some people. I fully understand both sides of that conflict. I fully understand the Serbian Radical Party's need to try to exercise its rights it thinks it is at risk. I also understand the need for those who formed the Forward Serbia MP club to defend their mandates. I don't understand you. You didn't provide 126 MPs last week to join the debate. Then you'd only have five hours to discuss all the points of the agenda. You've allowed each item of the agenda to be discussed for five hours. So it's the ruling majority's fault. It's not the opposition's fault. You started the day today by allowing the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The first MP to come out and break the Rules of Procedure did not quote a member by whom he answered and spoke for five minutes. What do you expect to continue in this congregation? How are you going to convince anyone that you are the same to everyone if you take away someone literally in the third minute of the word or call them "no" in accordance with the agenda point? It's all a matter of agreement. You should make a deal. You tried last week and failed to negotiate with the Serbian Radical Party. You need to make an effort and go forward together. We are listening to your announcements that you will withdraw seven or eight points scheduled for the next session. Then you're making the opposition guilty. That's not true. It is your incompetence; and when I say yours, I mean not directly yours, Mrs. Djukic, but the incompetence of the ruling majority. You are unable to provide 126 MPs, to unite the agenda points and to push the agenda through. So I ask you first to stick to the Rules of Procedure properly, not to violate it from the very beginning of the work day, and when after the working day, it becomes a matter that no one wants to see and listen to, then it is the opposition's fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3085	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is now quite clear, obviously, that we have undeniable proof why the ruling majority is not responsible for returning the kidnapped mandates. Members of 225 and 226, and you will hear specific questions at the end... (President: You must say a member first. I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Thank you. ) Articles 225 and 226. Why is the ruling majority not responsible for returning the kidnapped mandates of the Serbian Radical Party? Why does Boris Tadic need Tomislav Nikolic and this group of citizens who do not represent anyone in parliament? The role of Tomislav Nikolic is to perform the tasks of Boris Tadic. He is currently on a mission that Djindjic gave Karli del Ponte while still in his day, which is said to be run by Vojislav Seselj and never returned. Tomislav Nikolic is also successful in carrying out this task. Based on fake transcripts, presented by Nikolic as authentic transcripts from a meeting of a professional team that assists the defence of Vojislav Seselj, Vojislav Seselj was denied privileged communication, he was denied communication with legal advisers and with members of an expert team helping the defence of Vojislav Seselj. Also, all visits were called into question, and family visits and visits by legal advisers. In this way the defence of Vojislav Seselj is completely compromised, or the defence of Vojislav Seselj no longer exists. Tomislav Nikolic is an accomplice to the Hague prosecutor's office in an attempt to liquidate Vojislav Seselj, because it is the only way out for the prosecution that has experienced a complete fiasco in this case against Vojislav Seselj. So Tomislav Nikolic helps The Hague prosecutor's office impose counsel Vojislav Seselj, and we all know that Vojislav Seselj will not agree at all at the cost of life to take away his unimpeached right to defend himself. So the Serbian Radical Party is demanding that the problem be resolved with the kidnapped mandates of the Serbian Radical Party. And, a question for the competent state authorities -- does anyone in this country intend to react to the fact that human rights of Serbian citizens are being violated in The Hague tribunal, or is it intended to nurture co-conspirators of the Hague prosecutor's office here in parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3087	Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3088	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I did not end up in my earlier announcement what I wanted to say. Meanwhile, conditions have also been met for a reply to the discussion of citizens of Tomislav Nikolic, who is probably sitting here just because these people know him at security, so they let him into the O.R., convinced he is still a national MP. All the MPs and citizens of Serbia know that he is no longer. It has been before, and today I hope it is perfectly clear what Tomislav Nikolic's role is in his failed attempt to break the Serbian Radical Party. Maybe all these people who went with him to this day weren't even aware that everyone was participating together in an attempt by the UN tribunal to kill Vojislav Seselj. I am now opening their eyes to all and drawing attention to the citizens of Serbia and the competent state authorities that Tomislav Nikolic is participating, cooperating with Boris Tadic, in an attempt to kill Vojislav Seselj. Nikolic said here earlier that he read in the newspaper that Vojislav Seselj was not banned from communication, but was only banned from privileged communication. It's not a neck. It's a neck. He knows perfectly what simple card communication means, which he says he obtained, and he lies, because not only did he not send money for those cards but he also robbed the SRS cash register and put the party into loans without the permission of any party authority. But we'll talk about it second time and second time, and now it's our priority to protect the right to the defence and life of the president of the SRS. So Nikolic knows perfectly that privileged communication is the only communication that allows Seselj to communicate legally with a team that helps him defend and with his legal advisers. This card communication, where he can invite anyone and ever, implies that these conversations are being listened to, that all facts and every spoken word can be used during these talks, but that does not mean the possibility of defence of Vojislav Seselj. Here, if they listen, the lawyers know that communication between the lawyer and his client, in this case between members of the defence team Vojislav Seselj and Vojislav Seselj as the employer of the team... I'm running out of time. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3089	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'd like to ask you to focus our attention and energy on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3090	I'm reporting for article 104. Rules of Procedure, Madam President. As long as it takes to kill an innocent man, I think this parliament, and also the Serbian people, has no more important job. So, all those who have gathered to help The Hague tribunal in this must know that this and that it deserves the attention of the Serbian public. I allow journalists not to understand things, to misinterpret, but I cannot understand that someone who was the head of the professional defense team, Vojislav Seselj, does not understand what privileged communication is. So, this is the possibility that Vojislav Seselj is talking about everything, about protected and unprotected witnesses, the documentation that his expert team has, to give advice, is acting on his findings. In any other way, by using these phone cards, which and how they cost, and by calling any of us, and calling various people (and not just party members) to inform themselves of many things, he cannot talk about his process. He can ask you how you are, what you do, what the press writes, what there is, what the people say, and that's the story. But it's not a defense. So, since 2000, the intention has been carried out to completely exclude Vojislav Seselj from political life if possible and to kill himself. Now it seems to have come to that. Zoran Djindjic has started, and what irony, Tomislav Nikolic, must end it. I really don't know how this man can live with... (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Zoran Djindjic, Bulevar. )......................................................................................................... in the boulevard of Zoran Djindjic... Not even with that thought that he's involved in something like that. What is it that can make someone fall so low to participate in the murder of any man, so someone he's never seen, who he doesn't know, let alone his closest friend, the party president, someone who created him, who gave him everything he has and who made him a name in this country. It's just inconceivable. Is that money? To tell you the truth, I can't even believe it's money. That man has, he said, enough money. Is that some kind of blackmail? You know what, everyone has the right to go public and say, "I'm being blackmailed by this guy, this guy and that guy, and now let him cost what it costs, if I'm guilty, and if someone wants to kill me, let them kill me, I can't fight my conscience." Consciousness is what is most important in human life, only people with security can endure. (President: you've exceeded your time. Here, I'm done. Those whose conscience is beneath heels, they have nothing to look for in life, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3091	He has the word National MP Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic, don't waste any time, I'd like to give you a well-intentioned attention to bringing interference here. Yesterday, your colleague, Comic, who is not here in the bench, allowed Tomislav Nikolic to go out for this pay phone, did not ask him for a member of the Rules of Procedure to say "so I call it a speaker in the second, third minute", and you are asking us to say at the beginning of the discussion which member we are reporting for. So, this is what I would like to draw your attention to, so I'd like you to agree on how your associates are performing for this payphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3093	Mr. Vukovicu, I have less experience than Mrs. Komic and in order to prepare for the answer I may need more time than Mrs. Komic, so I ask all MPs to call on a member first, so I can follow you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3094	That's why I'm asking you for this time. I'm reporting to members 225 and 226, so, notice. Please don't throw it away. Be polite when we talk about serious things. It may not be serious for you, but I am telling you that there will be no peace in this assembly if what is done to Vojislav Seselj continues with the help of these domestic traitors. I hope, Mrs. Djukic, that you understand for us when we talk about this issue, because your president was killed in the tribunal, too. I say for the sake of a notification, as the citizen of Nikolic would say - he came out to give the notice, so the truth is next. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia. Imagine, a man comes out for this pay phone and wonders why Vojislav Seselj said he was ashamed of him. Chief of the expert team, the only man who had a stenographic conversation available. Once upon a time, Vojislav Seselj asked him about his health and his family. Maybe he abused that phone. He asked him what time it was in Belgrade and he went out and said -- not because of it, but because of witnesses. It's possible if he counts himself among those protected witnesses. Insider. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all of you from the ruling coalition, I thought a lot of negative things about you when you formed this government, but you are all more honorable people: Ceda Jovanovic, Mr. Palma, Velja Ilic. He is the most wicked man in this assembly, a man without morals, Tomislav Nikolic. You'll see, gentlemen "yellow," you'll be ashamed. You are now misusing something that we do not want to express, and it is our shame, that we cannot say what kind of relationship you are with this traitor, you and Boris Tadic; and Boris Tadic will be ashamed when we discover.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3095	There's a word from Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3096	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 101 and 173. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The 101st member regulates the right to a replica of the People's MP, and the 173s speak of the public work of the National Assembly. I wanted to tell you that we are Serbian radicals in most Christian Orthodox religions. There are among us those who are Muslim religions, like Mr. Spaho and his family. I congratulate them on their holiday. There are those who are Catholic, Protestant religions. We have long since made a decision at the Central State Administration of the SRS, if we wish to, and we wanted all of us who are Orthodox religions, to take an oath before God and priests in local churches or parishioners or here in the Assembly Church in Belgrade, when we receive a mandate from the SRS, on whose list we are elected. I had this honor as a Christian and as a Orthodox woman for the first time in 1996 in the Church of St. Alexander Nevsky, since at the time the party headquarters was in the French street in Belgrade, and later, several years later, for the second time for the MP of the people (I was already in the fifth assembly as a National MP elected on the list of SRS - Dr. Vojislav Seselj), in the diocese church in Šumadia, in Kragujevac, in the church of the Holy Virgin Mary. Each of us with great pride is looking at those framed oaths. One was signed by Dr Vojislav Seselj, the first and second, in his absence, the then deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party. I volunteered to replicate that we would remove all this nonsense and everything that it's written in printed media for days and now it's being smuggled around like a parody in electronic media. Anyone who wants to believe and anyone who wants to, and we invite everyone, to swear in church, can do it if they want to. But Tomislav Nikolic has no reason to be afraid because it was only about Serbian radicals, and he was never a real radical. Therefore, there is no reason to be afraid, and they are afraid of all God and all that they do in life, if they are dishonest and they are playing with human fate and life, as he is now doing, because he is an insider and wants to participate, along with the prosecution, in the murder of our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj. I'm referring to Article 173. Rules of Procedure. Please, this RTS technique, take good care of those of you sitting in the direction, in the RTS mix, every time Tomislav Nikolic comes out for a payphone, let those dice appear on the screen, because he is obviously a protected witness to the prosecution. Please modify his voice so he doesn't know who he is; if he can, in the voice of a journalist. I'd be very grateful to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3097	Mr. Krasic has the word. Please allow us to work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3098	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, whenever I call on article 27. I am trying to convince you that the president of the National Assembly has made a mistake; with you, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I have nothing to do with this pay phone. Please don't take my interventions with the Rules of Procedure that way. I know you're personally hurt by this situation that you're in, thanks to one of your fellow countrymen, but please, and distinguish it. You made more mistakes today. Except for the standard ones, which is that you represented some here in the way they would have wanted them to, and they didn't, and you insulted Mr. Spah by saying that a violation of dignity is possible only in the National Assembly. You're right, but what do we do if there's a citizen in the National Assembly who doesn't come out for a pay phone to say something, but through his newspapers he's muddying his friends yesterday, bringing out some things that aren't true. Second, don't you, Madam Chairman, put your grip on yourself. Feel free to punish me, to give me a warning. Be assured, at that moment I am going to your office to pay you, but I will never allow the punishment solution to be signed by Tomislav Nikolic, who falsely presents himself as the chairman of the Administrative Board. Remember one more thing, since you often talk about the legal path: to know what the legal path is for this situation, invite the people from G 17 and the Democratic Party. Let me teach you what happened. They had two MPs G 17 plus; their resignations were activated the moment it could pass in the Administrative Committee and they were sent to the Constitutional Court to fight for their rights. Those who teach you, they teach you so – hold Nikolic as the illegal chairman of the Administrative Board in order for everything to take place, so let the SRS go to the Constitutional Court, I guess in six years he will prove it. In the meantime, we're all contemporaries of attempted murder, and I know you're against murder. Yesterday you accused us of making lies, of slandering, of abuse, of obstructing. You were denied by the Hague prosecutor's office, denied by the UN tribunal. Immediately after the session was concluded, the decision was announced – thanks to Tomislav Nikolic, we set off at the first stage of the elimination of Vojislav Seselj. Who's responsible? Both you and Boris Tadic are responsible. This citizen can't be responsible. That citizen can't be responsible because... Look out, he's got police protection. Who are they protecting him from? Well, we came to the conclusion: Tadic gave him police protection so he wouldn't run away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3099	The word is Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which refers to the dignity of the National Assembly. Before that, I would like to remind you, and my colleague Krasic said this in his opening statement, today is United Nations Day, and that is another reason more to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Namely, the United Nations and there are reasons to respect the universal rights of man, the rights of institutions, the rights of organisations, the rights of states etc. That is why I would like to draw attention to an institution such as this parliament that the rights of an organisation such as the Serbian Radical Party are being violated by the kidnapping of its mandate. We will always fight for what belongs to us both by the Constitution and by the law and by the half, mentioned here, by all the UN statutes. The Serb has always fought for something that belongs to him. The Serbian peasant, when his neighbour moved between or overturned the field, did not fear, did not give up on it, but simply fought for it. We know that today the big propaganda is directed against the Serbian Radical Party, but it will not scare and intimidate us in any case. We'll fight for what's ours. We do not define in this struggle how much propaganda is, and how much force is directed against us, but we define ourselves according to what we defend and what we fight for, and in this case we are fighting for our mandates that we have gained honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3101	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm still reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, as I fail to finish what I really want to say. I have no intention of dealing with Tomislav Nikolic's moral character, because, like all Serbian radicals and SRS voters, I was recently convinced that Tomislav Nikolic really had morals. Sadly, his moral downturn began on September 4th, and from day to day, that man was falling ever lower and lower. We see it every day in the media. We saw it yesterday, when he grabbed all of Serbia with his discussion from this pay phone. He's not giving up on it. When it appears in the media with a national frequency, then I guess it has to listen to its media advisor, so take care of how he sits, how he talks, etc., and when he shows up in the interior, in TV programs that don't watch on cable TV, then the man relaxes and shows his real face and talks about who told whom, who said this or that. Of course, we will not engage because we are convinced that Serbian citizens are not interested in what we talked to Tomislav Nikolic in private. You know, we've been together for many years. For many years, we were convinced to talk to a friend. Of course, a lot of personal life has been said to him, but so has he. We are not going to use it even to abuse it, we are talking about what we are convinced is the interest of most citizens of Serbia, the interest of all righteous people not only in Serbia but also in the world, and this is an interest in protecting the life of Vojislav Seselj. Tomislav Nikolic, as much as he is bothered by what we say, Tomislav Nikolic is the one who directly endangers the life of Vojislav Seselj. He has already threatened him enough by suspending privileged communication between Vojislav Seselj and his legal advisers and his professional team because of his public appearances, because of the transmission of false data. If Tomislav Nikolic has morals, and he's gone, he's too low to speak at all as a man, then he could explain himself what I'm going to do later, because they've been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3103	Let me just inform you that the LDP parliamentary group has been authorised by MP Judith Popovic on this point. The word is Radisa Ilic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. For what I shall say before the messengers of the people, I also have written proof: I ask also the answers of the judicial authorities, as also of you, Madam President of the National Assembly. What's this about? It is about one forgery committed precisely by those who represent themselves here as some informal group, a group of citizens, I don't know either, and they take the unfair status of a MP from MPs, or mandates belonging to the Serbian Radical Party. A person who is currently a citizen, who is represented as a national MP on behalf of this new parliamentary group, has been unauthorized, following the termination of the power of the SRS, to conclude the annexes of the agreement and the termination of the contract to regulate mutual relations with the SRS committees. So this was done on September 15th, the day after all the powers previously issued to him by the Serbian Radical Party ceased to apply. What does it mean to respect the legality of the Tomislav Nikolic group, which pretends to have the status of a MP? I'm asking the judicial authorities for a notice, and I'm asking you, how can someone present themselves on behalf of a legal person, in this case the SRS, stand behind the SRS seal with a date of September 15th, and is excluded from the SRS on September 12th, with all the powers of 14th September and he knows well that there is no more authority? As MPs are kidnapped, so are parliamentary mandates all over Serbia. First of all, it's moral for a man to figure out what he can't do because I don't need any law to tell me something that's so obvious. Would it be moral and fair for me to, say, have in my hands a deed and confirm that I own something I sold in the meantime and that it's no longer mine, so that with this invalid confirmation, I'm doing further fraud and cheating on citizens? How would the judicial authorities react if this work had been committed by an ordinary citizen? What's this all about today's colleagues? It wouldn't have occurred to me to do something like this, but it seems to be a method... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and the manner of conduct of those who take mandates from the SRS. If Tomislav Nikolic wants to build a political career to restore the mandates of the SRS, he should return the parliamentary mandates and start from scratch, as many parties have set out on their way to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3105	Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I continue that story about the unauthorized transfer of funds from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I'm reporting by members of 225 and 226 and requesting a notice from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Attorney General, and we need to include a budgetary republican inspection, given that the crime has been committed. A similar situation occurred in the Indji municipality. The municipality of Indjija paid the humanitarian fund Divac 100,000 euros, in addition to these over 500,000 euros paid by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The question arises as to why these funds are being paid to the private humanitarian fund when both the municipality and the ministry can spend the funds themselves for the purposes for which these funds are intended and foreseen by the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is most likely that everything that Divac has done in the pre-election campaign for the President of the Republic and for the DS is settled. This is a criminal offence and therefore the competent authorities must do their utmost to shed light on it and punish all those involved. Besides, we'll probably find a lot of other municipalities that were paying into that private fund. When we talk about the biggest violation committed by Tomislav Nikolic and the group he took away, we must say that it was done with the support of the government. It is visible, lately there is almost no media, electronic or written, which is not all about what Tomislav Nikolic is saying. This suggests a direct track and link between the current government and Tomislav Nikolic. So it's in all the written media, and now it's even going to trade unions, the beekeepers' association, etc., which leads all the way to absurdity. When we talk about unintended use of funds, all these funds are derived from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I mean the funds of these associations of citizens and various organisations, and this is about unintended use of funds. That is why we call on the public prosecutor to deal seriously with non-intentional budgets, given to these organisations to make a mess in the SRS. You will not do this; I call on Tomislav Nikolic and all those MPs, our former colleagues, to return the mandates to the one to whom they belong... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and this is the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3107	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 46, which says: "The Committee for Defence and Security is considering the draft law, second regulation and general act in the field of public and state security, a report on the work of the Ministry of Interior on the state of security in the Republic of Serbia, delivered to the National Assembly at its request, is in control of the work of the Security Service, as well as other issues in the area of security, in accordance with the law." I quote that because we are here asking questions that are first in line for the SRS, which is the life of our President Vojislav Seselj, who is seriously at risk in The Hague. We have indisputable evidence and the slow public comes to all the facts concerning Vojislav Seselj. Vojislav Seselj is not the first politician in Serbia to be threatened by the threat of being killed, it has happened. First of all, it happened to Zoran Djindjic. Because, according to all these inscriptions in "Kurr", there is, apparently, another version of who killed Zoran Djindjic, we still don't have any obvious evidence of who organized it. That these inscriptions are very close to the truth these days shows the Hague tribunal by requiring "Kurira" to deliver information to them when it comes to those transcripts of the talks that "Kurir" published about Carla del Ponte and Zoran Djindjic. Among other things, you remember, I've already said this once and it's been two months since I've sent a request to the Security and Information Agency to provide me with all the facts regarding three listening operations for a number of citizens, I don't think there are more than 40 of them, it doesn't matter at all. These operations are called "The Sword", "Cactus" and "The Shumadi". For each of these operations there are, name and last name, operatives, so it can't be lost. All those involved in this business know that there are more protection measures, more documents to be left in certain places. But I don't get information until today. Among other things, one of these operations is related to Zoran Djindjic. Why would the BIA avoid putting into perspective some things that might help us... (President: Time. ( ) Why does he avoid delivering this information to the Defence and Security Committee? Who is in the interest of hiding or not revealing the truth about the murder of Zoran Djindjic? Here, when it comes to Vojislav Seselj, things are indisputable. Here they are, which you would say, like in the palm of your hand. You remember how you attacked us at first, foreign mercenaries, you immediately accuse us, etc. (President: Finish. Here, I'm done. It didn't take much time, when in the paper information, and only a confession, because they seemed to find out it was going to come out in the paper – yes, I met with the US ambassador at a closed meeting. Who else was there? Ambassador of the Vatican, Ambassador of Croatia, Ambassador of Albania, Ambassador of the United Kingdom... (President: Speak for a minute longer. I'm sorry, let me finish. (President: Please finish your sentence.) ( ) What is this closed gathering attended by a man who is apparently in someone’s hands and apparently for someone’s interests is doing what he is doing? You answer for yourself, we're just stating the facts. You ask yourself that question. (President: Please, I will be forced to tell you...) I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3109	National MP Sladjan Mijaljević, then Mr. Maras Slobodan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3110	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you, by the members of 225 and 226, that several technical devices, or computers, have been missing in the past two weeks from our SRS. The last event took place on Friday - one of the MPs took away our secretary, and they took away the computer. Please, we know ourselves, when we enter a room and an institution, that each of these tables, chair or part of the technical equipment wears an identification number on it, and at the end of each year, there is a checklist and a list. Don't make it happen at the end of the year that SRS MPs have to look for these secretaries and have to pay for those computers. Please return our computer, and you can keep the secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3111	Mr. Maras, then Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3112	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for violation of Rule 200 of this Rules of Procedure, on September 5th of this year, I have a stenogram in front of me from that session, asking five questions from the Minister of Energy, Mr. Skoric. It's been 25 days. If you allow me to quote - "the government's oral question, or the minister, must be answered orally immediately". I'll quote you a stenogram: "Mr. Škundric, from the place: It is not the subject of this agreement, but you will get an answer", so afterwards the president of the Assembly will say, "The service will deliver the answer that will arrive. "So, article 200 says: "The Government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. The written reply of the Government, or the Minister of State, shall be delivered to the MPs. Exceptionally, if certain facts requiring a longer or more complex analysis are to be identified in the preparation of an answer to the parliamentary question, the time limit for answering the parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days. "I sincerely hope that Mr. Skundric is really helping his associates and that he is trying to find answers that will clear things up for us. I then asked the questions, the topic was an oil-gas deal, the first question of what was asked was – will Jugorosgas still be a mediator when buying gas between Serbia and Russia? The second question I asked him, and again I ask for an answer to that question, is it – is "Yugorosgas" when a concession was established for a period of 25 years to build a pipeline, selling gas transit from Pojat to the southernmost Serbia, which includes the construction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad pipeline through which Serbia was to connect with Bulgaria? The third question I asked him – which is why the previous government, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and the Ministry of Energy did not respond to the decision of the NIS Management Board that sent a request to buy 25% of the "Yugorosgas", 25% of the actions that then sold "Progressgas Trading"? I remind you that Progressgas trading for four million dollars sold Gazprom 25% of its stake in Jugorosgas and that Gazprom owns 75% of Jugorosgas, and annually it is $35-40 million only for mediation. I also asked who introduced it in 2006, on whose order was introduced "Yugorosgas" as a mediator... Mr. Marash, you've gone too far. I quoted the Rules of Procedure. (President: Yes, I apologize, you have ten seconds left.) ) Here, I'll try to quote Article 200 again. If anyone in this room manages to quote it in ten seconds, I will never answer the word again. (President: you've exceeded 30 seconds of time. Madam President, you are not correct, as usual. I beg you, you have committed yourself here, according to this stenogram, as well as the Minister of Energy, to get me an answer as an MP. It's been 25 days. It says here that no more than 30 days can pass from the moment the question is asked, and that it can be answered in writing. I ask you to do everything you can, since he's your party colleague, to get an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3113	Thank you. We again refer to the Ministry of Energy, both the Minister and his cabinet, the question, with a request that within the deadline, that is another five days, Mr. Maras gets an answer. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go. The Belief of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3114	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you just violated article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have been saying for days that opposition MPs, specifically the Serbian Radical Party, have been making it impossible for us to discuss the agenda. We're ready to discuss the agenda, but we don't have a proposing representative. You are under obligation, pursuant to Article 87, to take a break, to ensure the presence of Bosko Ristic in order to hear what he has to tell us about these proposals, since we don't have one here anyway, we will continue to talk about it, the representative or the High Council of Justice, or the Great Personal Council, or the Ministry of Justice, and we should all line up here, because we have something to ask them about the agenda point you're trying to start. So, Article 87. The Rules of Procedure obliges you and says that members of the government, authorised representatives and other legislators, take part in meetings of the National Assembly, in addition to the MPs. The mandated representative for all these decisions is Bosko Ristic. He's not in the O.R., so there's no conditions. I ask you to publicly tell the citizens of Serbia that because of the "yellow" we are unable to work normally in this House, because it is not possible for MPs to hear the proposal's representative. After this and after the fact that you didn't have a quorum for a united debate, I ask you never to say again either you or Mrs. Kolundji publicly that the Assembly is not working because of obstruction, or I don't know what, by the opposition. You from the ruling coalition, here's proof that you're responsible. And when you talk about how much a congregation day costs, I don't know who you're going to share your expenses with because now you have to take a break, because there are no conditions to continue working on the agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3115	Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure, let us move to work on today's agenda. I would like to say that I fully agree and thank you for your initiative, Mrs. Radeta, to have the motionary present. Anyway, it's easier to do that, but it's not an obligation, so we'll keep working. Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3116	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I will continue to convince you that getting applause from these "yellows" does not mean that you are applying the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. You have again violated not only Article 27, but at least five other members of our Rules of Procedure, but I do not want to waste time quoting because we need to be effective. It is not possible to begin the debate in the National Assembly unless the legislator or some decision gives an explanation as to why it is proposed. Mr. Bosko Ristic is here, but he's out. He's probably giving legal advice to Tomislav Nikolic. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you are making an even more serious breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Namely, everyone in the Republic of Serbia and abroad knows what is going on in The Hague. The Hague tribunal is conducting a quiet elimination and liquidation of Vojislav Seselj. You made it possible for a group of accomplices in an attempted murder to block the Republic of Serbia to protect its citizen. We all owe, when we know, see or hear that someone is killing someone, to stand up for the defense. I ask you to stand up for Vojislav Seselj, whom they are trying to kill in The Hague. The first measure you need to take is for the SRS to get the post of chairman of the Administrative Board and for Boris Tadic to disband these extended arms that push the knife in the back of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. It's clear to everyone. Don't think Serbian citizens are collective killers. They see what happens, they see what is done in Serbia. A coalition was created here to eliminate Vojislav Seselj, to destroy the SRS, so that no one in this country would stand up. For what? You heard what Tadic said -- we can share Kosovo and Metohija. You heard what the Chief of Staff said - we can win it in one day. You have heard what Pajtic says. Done, Vojvodina is gone. That's why you need someone here to prevent a real discussion, to make an impression on Serbian citizens -- here, radicals are looking for something, they're nagging for something. The legal path is known: on the street these citizens, so let them prove it in the Constitutional Court. He told you everything Mr. Nikolic, that his term was in his pocket, that he signed his resignation, that his resignations were there, that he had lost them. It's all clear. What's he doing here? An accomplice to attempted murder. You inform your Tadic, he will be the first on that list.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3117	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no difference between Bozidar Djelic and Bosko Ristic. The difference is in millions of euros. They are about the same growth, from the same "yellow company", the Democratic Party. Now you can't, Madam President, shake hands with double arches. If a colleague of Radeta told you that, under Article 87, an authorised representative of the proposings of what is on the agenda to be in the O.R., then you must return to the session held 15 days ago, when a break was made to catch Djelic in the hallway somewhere and be present as we speak of the points of the agenda that were then in the assembly procedure. This way, we have no information where an authorised representative is located, and this same one was held, I mean Bosko Ristic, a few days ago, while the MPs of the SRS spoke about what is obvious today, and that is that Tomislav Nikolic was instructed by Boris Tadic and The Hague Prosecutor's Office to work both at breaking the SRS and preparing the murder of our President Vojislav Seselj... Bosko Ristic, I think, told my colleague Radeti – because of you, I cannot get rid of the judges whose term in office ended two years ago. Comrade Vlatko, I'm so glad you're here because you were in the same situation. Remember when you, it seems to me in the previous assembly, were an authorised representative of the proposings; we insisted that you come, that you be there and there was a break (it was then by Oliver Dulic), until the person who was authorized to propose the agenda came to us. You know, if anyone says... I heard the vice president of Gordana Komic's assembly say she was not obliged to attend. It is binding, because we are destroying the course of the session and the integrity of the assembly. Wait, so what do we need Article 93 for? Article 93 regulates which procedure and order it runs, writes nicely, a session of the National Assembly; if it is indicated who has the right to speak, when, to whom the restriction does not apply, it is likely that it is logical for Bosko Ristić to be in the hall. It doesn't surprise me. The man, Bosko Ristic, was recorded in anals of the Serbian Parliament as someone who, along with this Nikolic, was a real disgrace at the post of chairman of the Administrative Committee. At the time of Bosko Ristic's chairmanship of the Administrative Committee, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had 308 MPs. That's what you've authorized now, but if you don't have a better one, and you don't, at least bring him into the O.R., otherwise we can't continue and we can't talk about this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3119	Mr. Dejan Mirovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3120	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, as well as on UN Day, violation of Article 6. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 14. The International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. All these provisions guarantee the right to defend, as a basic human right. That's why I'm asking the competent authorities for the unauthorized publication of a stenogram, apparently falsified by certain citizens. Human rights must not be selectively applied. They also apply to Dr Vojislav Seselj. The principle of political correctness cannot be stronger than human rights. In that sense, although it is clear to all of us, it is also written by a political analyst in today's "Politics", that only the SRS and the ethnic bloc are the right opposition, I demand a notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3121	Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3122	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for violation of Article 104: "The Members of the People are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." The other day we had a agenda point -- the National Bank Council election. Of course, because of the quick completion of that agenda on your part, we haven't had a chance to hear anything from the promoter. We're in a situation again today that whoever should explain this proposal isn't in the O.R. That's why I'm saying it's a violation of the Parliament's dignity. Yesterday, Mr. Sasa Jankovic, the public defender, was present here, explained his proposal and then communicated with MPs from the assembly pay phone. What do we expect of anyone, as MPs, when the MP, Mr. Ristic, does not find fit to come here as a person who should be authorized to explain this proposal? So please, in accordance with Article 98(3), give a break or at least bring Mr. Ristic. I really think it is extremely degutant that one of the MPs shows such disrespect for the MPs and the Assembly itself that he does not find it appropriate to come here for a few minutes (because usually all these arguments last a few minutes) and to explain this proposal to us. And, of course, we'll continue to work in accordance with the agenda. I'm just afraid of one other thing – that everything that's been going on over the past seven to ten days, in fact, has been done in one beautiful direction and that fits someone else entirely. So I repeat, you have failed to secure 126 MPs and unite the debate, and then accuse the opposition of obstructing. Now you don't respect the National Assembly, you don't bring in anyone who should explain this decision, or this proposal. President of the Assembly, you're responsible for that. As Mr Krasic says, it is not about Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, this is about the president of the Assembly. You're responsible for this. Do not suffer the consequences of being forced to do things or simply handcuffed. Once you do what the opposition proposes and what is constructive – bring Boško Ristić, who is authorized to explain this proposal, or take a break until he arrives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3123	The MP called for Article 98(3), which reads: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. "Therefore, it is either an oversight of the statement of injury or an obvious inability to make any decision on the basis of the reference to that Article 98. The word is a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3124	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting under Article 103 regarding article 48 and the committee's responsibilities. This is where the chairman of the Justice Committee is asked to be an authorised promoter. I just wanted to explain that the Justice Committee... Indeed, we invited Bosko Ristic to come, if there is a need to give an answer, of course. I don't argue that he should be here. I just want to explain that these proposals are not determined by the Justice Committee. So, among these motions for resolution, some have been made at a personal request; there are decisions made by the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Greater Personality Council, which identified the reasons for the resolution, so the decision made by the Greater Personally Greater, and again the Greater Personality, then, the High Council of Justice... Therefore, there are competent institutions which make decisions on the reasons for the termination of the duties of judicial holders. This is not done by the Assembly Committee on Justice, although really Bosko Ristic, as chairman of the Committee, will be present.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3125	The word has been made by MP Mirko Munjic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then by MP Miroslav Petkovic, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3126	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. The question is, in some ways, about the agenda and concerns impunity, i.e. a conscious violation of the Constitution and the law by the competent and judicial authorities. So, I ask the question to the competent state authorities, the prosecution's judicial and judicial authorities - what did the state authorities do specifically regarding the protection of citizens of Serbia in the Hague case, with special reference to the protection of our President Vojislav Seselj's human rights? Ladies and gentlemen, modern executioners don't have masks, they don't hide their faces. It was different before. Let me just say that, for example, there is one room in London where the methods of executing the death penalty in the world are displayed in the wax museum of Madame Tiso. In that room of executioners, the executioners hide their faces with those masks, the one that pulls the lever from the guillotine, and the one that pulls the lever when executing the death penalty on the electric chair. But what happens to modern executioners today? They absolutely don't hide their face, I even feel like they want their face to be visible. Example one: the one who ordered the direct bombing of Serbia, when nearly 3,000 innocent victims were killed and innocent victims today die because of bombs with poor uranium, did not want to hide their face. On the contrary, we saw him well. Example two: modern executioners in the Hague casamat, and even outside of the Hague casamat, in Serbia, do not want to hide their faces, we see them well. Whether it's for blue or something else, time will tell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3127	People's MP, the question of the information you asked for can only be passed to the Justice Department, not to the judicial authorities directly. Do you agree that, with my further explanation, your stenogram introduces an amendment to address the Ministry of Justice with a request that you be given information on who and in what way cares about the status of human rights of Vojislav Seselj at the International War Crimes Court? Are you agreeing to change the stenogram of your exposure? Yeah. I thank you. The People's MP Miroslav Petkovic has the word, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and after that, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3128	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call for a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 87, in relation to Article 93(3). Namely, members of the Justice Committee demand that the chairman of the Committee on Justice, Bosko Ristic, appear because very important things are being discussed today. Today’s agenda includes the resolution of almost a hundred judicial officials. At the meeting of the Justice Committee, we did not have the necessary material and we could not see, as members of the Committee, which is why certain candidates, whether on a personal request they should be relieved, whether they met the terms of the Labour Act, whether they were relieved because of their unconscious performance... It happened that the members of the Committee voted completely differently, even for the holders of certain judicial functions that went in the package, to vote for three without voting for two. It is therefore important that Mr Ristic be present here so that, above all, the MPs, of course, also members of the Justice Committee, explain why they voted for certain proposals and did not vote for certain proposals. We really haven't had a chance to see what this is all about on the committee. So I'm saying, it's a very important matter and it's an important topic; we're solving people's judicial and prosecutorial functions, we're not talking today about asphalting the Adriatic Sea, so we're asking that the committee's rapporteur be present. We know it's been a practice so far. This time, I ask the President of the Committee to get full material at the next session, when it is scheduled and when these matters are discussed, so that the members of the Justice Committee can adequately discuss it on the committee. In this way, we want to help other MPs who want to take part today in the debate on this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3129	The People's MP... If I understand correctly, did you refer to Article 93 of Section 3? 87. Item 3? I would like to be sent a stenogram of which member was called by the MP, since I heard - Article 87. The 87th article reads: "The National Assembly is attended by members of the government, the authorised representatives of the other legislators and the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, as well as other persons who are calling for the president of the National Assembly. "It is not disputed that you have called for Article 87, paragraph 93... I thank you for your opportunity to confirm that I heard you correctly. I do not see the basis for you to use that member's injury for the presence of the chairman of the Justice Committee, as well as in Article 87, and in relation to Article 93(3). I heard right. So, since MP Zoran Krasic has given up expressing his injury to the Rules of Procedure, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Spasojevic. National MP Dragan Todorovic utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. Of course, above all, to inform the public in Serbia that Bosko Ristic as chairman of the Justice Committee must be present when the agenda points are this important here on the agenda. I would ask you not to disturb me. So, even in the previous National Assembly meeting, there have always been problems, I pointed out at the first sessions of both congregations, that Bosko Ristic has always caused problems in the work of the Justice Committee. I'm sure, Mrs. Kolundzija, if you call Bosko Ristic now, he'll tell you he's on a payment ramp. I was a member of the Justice Committee and we've always had problems with the quorum, we've always had problems with his arrivals. Therefore, nothing is unusual. It's the one thing that happens absolutely constantly when it comes to Bosko Ristic. I'm just appealing that it's really amazing that you're constantly setting this man up as a representative of the Justice Committee. It's an extremely important job and the presence of such a man in this session is extremely important, there are a number of questions we need to ask. The materials were not delivered in due time, and we have no reason why the holders of judicial functions in Serbia are being relieved and their duties have ceased. Therefore, I would really like to ask you, as head of the DS parliamentary group, to invite Bosko Ristic to come here. New Serbia's MPs want to participate in the work, but we really think it's absolutely impossible to work here if the chairman of the Justice Committee is not here when it comes to such important points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3131	The MP is asking for information on where Bosko Ristic is, while giving information on where Bosko Ristic is, so I cannot help you with an additional explanation. Did any of the other MPs point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Since the information on the whereabouts of MP Bosko Ristić has not been found by MP Srdjan Spasojevic or me, then he will... National MP Dragan Todorovic says he will seek a meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, and information, two committees, to put an end to the agenda. What kind, MP Dragana Todorovic? Do you need help with the appointment of the Security Committee? No, I don't. I thank you. So I'm setting a 30-minute break from 12:00 to 12:30. At 12.30 we continue to work with the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups according to the agenda. The first one has the word "people's MP, vice president, Judita Popovic." Thank you. [[After break – 12.30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our session on the agenda. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radeta insists that I should first ask if the Proposer wants a word? Look at the stenogram, that question has already been asked at the National Assembly session. The People's Parliament is saying he wasn't there. That doesn't have to be the one who's presidencies. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, the order of asking questions about giving words at the speaker of the National Assembly is, firstly, to ask the Proposer. Since the issue has been raised, the session has been under way, along with the statement of violations of the Rules of Procedure, and now it is up to the Rules of Procedure to give words to the presidents, or to authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. Do they want the word of authorised representatives of parliamentary groups? The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, who is an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, you have now tried to explain the situation in one, your own way. Of course, you're wrong. You should know that when you see that there are no proposing representatives, you can't ask him if he wants to talk. Of course, you were obliged to do it now that he's here. Okay, it's not the first time you've broken the Rules of Procedure. (President: Please state which provision of the Rules of Procedure I have broken, if you think I am. ) Mrs Comic, it seems to me that you have given me your word as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Let me teach you something: I have 20 minutes as a proposing representative, according to the Rules of Procedure, here to use. I can keep quiet here for 20 minutes if I think it's a message to the MPs and messages to the citizens of Serbia. Don't get smart in what way, in which Rules of Procedure, which member... Indeed, you allow yourself too much. Allow me to use 20 minutes as an authorised representative of the SRS, whose President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, is the right we have according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, I would like to look back, just to remind the citizens of Serbia, who is responsible for almost nothing in Serbia. The ruling majority is responsible and, above all, DS is responsible. It's not just about the judiciary, it's about any area of social life. Why do I stress the Democratic Party's responsibility in the area of justice? We have very often, in recent months, statements and interviews by the President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mrs. Shkero, who in certain ways complains that the work of the judicial authorities has slowed down or in some way limited due to the failure of the National Assembly. I fully understand Mrs. Vidu Petrovic-Škero, certainly that she, as the President of the Supreme Court, can hardly organise the work of the courts only today, in some cases after a year and more, we are discussing the resolution of the holders of certain judicial and public prosecutorial functions. When it comes to responsibility in parliament, then it must be clear whose responsibility it is. In this case, it is the irrefutable responsibility of the Democratic Party or, rather, the irresponsibility of the Democratic Party. We tried today, and we were able to convince the assembly majority that we could not speak of this agenda point without an authorised promoter. The mandated promoter is the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, Mr Bosko Ristic. Its absolute right to say nothing or to say anything if it has anything to say, but its obligation is to be present when it is spoken of as the item of the agenda for which it is authorised. There were supposed to be other people here. We were on the Justice and Management Committee talking about it. When we talk about dispensing the duties of judicial officials, or setting up, it is however, that we here must have before us and the real representatives of the promoters, and these are members of the High Council of Justice, the Grand Judicial Council or the Minister of Justice, as one of the members of the High Council of Justice. They were not present at the Justice Committee, nor were they present today at the National Assembly session. They may not have been informed either, but in any case, this is a public criticism and representatives of the judicial authorities who had to be present here to answer some of the questions that Bosko Ristic, as chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, certainly cannot answer because he could not answer those questions when we discussed it at a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration. According to Article 5(2). The law declaring the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia required that during the second session, following the government's election, the National Assembly comply with the Constitution of laws relating to the application of the provisions of the Constitution to the courts and public prosecutors, and those governed by the organisation and jurisdiction of the courts, the election and termination of the office of the President of the courts and judges, the High Council of the judiciary, organisations and the jurisdiction of the public prosecutors, the election and termination of the office of public prosecutors and the Deputy Prosecutors of the State. None of these laws were passed, although it was a time when we were obliged to pass these laws. It is true that Article 6 states that the laws that are now in force are applied until these above are passed. But, you know, this can't last forever. We expect seriousness and responsibility from the ruling majority and when it comes to the bill's proposals, not that we in the agenda get proposals from some decisions, which I don't think are irrelevant. The government of the Republic of Serbia must take care of priorities. Priorities have been established by the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, which I have quoted. That is the obligation of the ruling majority and that is the obligation of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if Mr. Bosko Ristic can answer to the MPs and citizens of Serbia why Serbia doesn't have a state prosecutor. We've got one man in the line of duty. I don't know what year his duties have passed. We have a problem in the judiciary all the time, in which we place the Constitutional Court, conditionally speaking. I remind you of how long we've been, on two occasions, without the Constitutional Court; so we've already been without the Attorney General once; so now we're back without the Attorney General. I don't know, really, how anyone can even say that Serbia is a legal state and that these state functions work in Serbia. Obviously that's not true, and that's exactly what we want to talk about. Someone might have thought, when this agenda point was proposed, what's there to talk about. Some people have applied to no longer deal with judicial functions, some have long come to be retired, some are even said to be proposed to be resolved because of the unconscious performance of the judicial office. So that's how important it is. Believe me, as important as it is that we discuss when some judges are placed on these functions, it is so important that we also discuss when it comes to resolutions from these functions. We asked the Committee of Justice and Administration if we had an explanation of some judges or public prosecutors who had not done so long ago, although they were not formally relieved of these functions, and the responsibility for why they were not and were formally resolved was exclusively on Mr Oliver Dulic, since you saw in the material that these materials in the National Assembly had been in the procedure for almost a year, perhaps more than a year. So, Mr Oliver Dulic then, as speaker of parliament, estimated that it was irrelevant and that MPs should not discuss it. What's the consequence? The result is that we have a group of former judges or prosecutors who have long acquired terms of retirement and who, in the meantime, I suppose, so Mr. Ristic said from this place, receive salaries rather than pensions. The question to which the answer (Bosko Ristic certainly cannot) is Mrs Vida Petrovic-Škero, since we do not have a state prosecutor, I do not know who else to ask, or Mrs Malovic, the minister of justice, is the question – do people who have the right to retire still work in our courts and public prosecutors? If they do, then it's inadmissible, because how can they judge, let's say, some work relationship disputes or any other disputes if they've acquired their own pension right? If they do not work, then I ask in what way Mr Oliver Dulic, Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party will bear responsibility, in general, for those people receiving salaries instead of pensions. It is then a complete disturbance in the Republic of Serbia's budget, not to talk about the structure of the budget; in any case, you understand that wages and pensions, it is clear to the citizens of Serbia, are not the same. So these are questions that no one in this room can give us the right answers today. Maybe someone will try, but it can only be one of the faces I mentioned earlier. We also have a proposal to relieve the duties of a former judge or a public prosecutor at a personal request. The questions we would like to hear the answers to, but unfortunately, we have no one to ask, and that is why I am talking to the public, the citizens of Serbia, the questions we do not have an answer to are – what are the reasons why these people have submitted requests to resolve their functions. If someone just wrote "I'm asking to get rid of the judge's functions, with a day of team and team," then really no one has the right to ask that person why he wanted to do it and ask for the resolution of the functions, but in that case we were obliged to do it within 30 days of the day of submission of that request, and here you can see in the materials that we have requirements that are older than and over a year old. There's a question of what status these people are in right now. Although they said with that date and that date, seven months ago, they don't want to perform that function anymore, are they still judges and prosecutors? If they're not, say, I guess in most cases they're lawyers, how can they be lawyers if they're not cleared of judicial functions? Who put these people in a situation or being in a completely unsolved legal position or that, without their guilt, they break the rules, or that they get paid, without doing their job, or that they can't do another job without receiving any pay, and then the existence of their family was questioned. These are the questions we expect answers to, but unfortunately, there is no one in this room today to answer those questions. They're very interesting, look, the motions for a discharge of office, for example, one of the presidents of the court. I will not speak of names on purpose, but the proposal is to relieve the court's president of office for unconsciously performing his duties, some court president in Serbia. We have such suggestions both for judges and for public prosecutors. In the light of this proposal, we receive a copy of Article 69. The law on judges where it has been established that the President of the Court shall be dismissed and the duties shall be carried out unwittingly or inadmissiblely, and the unconsciousness shall be viewed primarily in the failure to establish the proper and timely work of the court and shall prevent proceedings harmful to the independence or reputation of the court. This is irresponsible and irresponsible. We're looking for an answer to the question whether all these motions for a decision to dismiss the judges or the president of the courts or the public prosecutors... A large personal council reportedly in the process found that they were out of control. We're asking, what is the view of this unconsciousness? Are they unconscious because they did not agree, like, Mrs Gordana Bozilovic, to have Natasa Kandic dictate their decisions? Are they unconscious because they did not agree to fulfill a warrant issued by Minister Malovic, who will remain famous for signing the extradition order for Radovan Karadzic? Is it the judges who couldn't handle the tycoon pressures, the pressures of the executive authorities? Is it the judges who were really unconscious, but we don't see on this paper what this unconsciousness is about? Is this judge of a court whose fate we should decide today and vote on, the only judge in this particular court who has unwittingly performed his duties? Is there anyone who can suggest this to us that all the judges in that court, at least on average, if not above average, are very safe, and only this one is unconscious, but we still don't know for what reason. For decisions like this, if I were you, in the place of you who would vote for this, I would never vote. You are putting yourself in a position to fulfill the orders of Boris Tadic, who conducts his dictatorship both in courts and without real reason. Just laugh, and wonder whose families you're putting in a situation where they're left without bread because you're gonna... Maybe this is really how it is, but do you people who are going to vote for this have proof that this is how it is? Can you claim that absolutely all the judges in Subotics are doing a hell of a job of their own, except for the president of the court you want to settle? I don't speak for or against, I speak only examples and I speak in principle and I draw your attention that by rejecting such decisions... You are, I suppose, the majority of the assembly, and you should reject such decisions, to seek, as the ruling majority, from the Great Personal Council, concrete information as to why one of the judges was unconscious, so today you should resolve him, and not to assume that he is talking in the cities of Serbia – they suggested because he was not "yellow", because the president of the municipality asked him to do so and he did not do so. So, very unserious, very irresponsible to the work of the MP and, of course, to the families of these people. These are all living people who have families of their own. If they were truly unwittingly performing their duties, they should be resolved; if they were committing criminal acts, they should be held accountable. But if all of this is left out and it's just that someone doesn't like the party or that someone hasn't fulfilled someone's wish, some tycoon, to make a judgment like this, or someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia... I don't suspect anyone right now, I'm just saying what it's like to assume that he shows up when it comes to decisions like this. I am convinced that you are also aware that I am absolutely right when I say this, but what you are going to do is you are not in the function of the MPs of the people, but in the role of the perpetrators of Boris Tadic. If not, then at least you would warn the performer (if we do not have a real) state prosecutor that something is happening in the National Assembly, that something is happening in The Hague tribunal; you would warn them that a group of citizens who have kidnapped the mandates of the SRS, whose president is Vojislav Seselj, is also involved in the murder of Vojislav Seselj. It expires on 19th minute, but my colleagues will use time to talk about both Bruno Vekaric and Vukcevic, and about how the courts in the Republic of Serbia were tribunaled, and above all of this Special Court of War Crimes, which is special only because his judges and prosecutors receive significantly higher salaries than their colleagues working in the district court, and they are exactly the same, except that these listeners of the system, formerly listeners to Carla del Ponte, are now Serge Brammerca. So, fellow MPs, the 20th minute passed very quickly. This could be talked about, believe me, for hours. I draw your attention, think again about what I said on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and force the ruling majority to appeal to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3134	In the morning part of the session, Parliamentarian Milorad Buha, on the basis of members 225 and 226, requested the information he needed for today's work. One piece of that information was provided, or all the information, so please, by the same member, MP Mehu Omerovic, president of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, to give information to the MP Milorad Buhi and the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3135	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, allow me to step away from the topic on the agenda for a moment. Simply, I will use my five-minute parliamentary right as president of the Committee on Labour and Combat and Social Affairs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and in order to inform citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, I will provide some additional information. Namely, my esteemed colleague Buha is in the afternoon debate, with the right, because he knows best the situation and the situation in which refugees and displaced persons are located in Serbia, and unfortunately there are more than 300,000 from Croatia, and from Kosovo and Metohija, he has requested some information and information. In this context and because of my colleagues, Buha, and even more because of these internally displaced and evasive persons and because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, allow me to give feedback, to call her that. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted information on plans to provide decent housing solutions for refugees and internally displaced persons located in collective accommodations in the Republic of Serbia as early as 29 November 2007. I would remind Serbian citizens that Serbia still has 84 collective centres, in which there are more than 7,500 people who have come from areas that have been threatened by war. These individuals still need significant assistance in the process of local integration, i.e. in the process of ensuring a decent life. This primarily refers to the most difficult problems, and they are related to housing and employment. The most difficult situation, I stress, is the most convincing situation in this 84 collective centres, since they have remained mostly old and particularly endangered persons who need and additional assistance from each species. After talks were held by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the Refugees Commissioner, which carries all the costs of feeding and housing these persons in collective centres, with the aim of helping them solve problems, primarily housing, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia addressed the humanitarian organisation "Divac", with the demand to consider the possibility of participation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in solving this problem. This humanitarian organization planned a whole series of activities in 2007 and 2008 that would raise funds and focus on further providing decent housing solutions for these persons located in collective centres. The finance ministry has found that there is a possibility that for this purpose, since it is the problem of one of the most vulnerable parts of the population, 40 million dinars can be hired from the budget reserve. It is also proposed that these funds be paid to the Special Account of the Humanitarian Organisation, from which it would be spent, and their dedicated use will be accompanied by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is composed of two representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the humanitarian organisation "Divac" and is chaired by a representative of the Ministry of Labour. In the context and in light of this information, the government has reached conclusions at that session that accept this information on intentions to provide decent housing solutions for refugees and internally displaced persons. The Framework Agreement on the provision of assistance for decent housing solutions for refugees and internally displaced persons was then adopted. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has been authorised to sign a framework agreement with this humanitarian organisation. The funds for the implementation of the agreement, amounting to 40 million, are provided from the funds of the current reserve under Section 21 - Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Function 090, social protection which is unclassified in the second place in the economic classification 472 - social security benefits from the budget. It is very important, and I will conclude, dear fellow MPs, that this action is part of the great humanitarian activity and action that has been launched, which our public has repeatedly been informed of in the past year and this year, in order to buy abandoned houses in refugee villages from these collective centres, which was the case. I think it is also important to point out that, apart from the funds provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, these 40 million dinars, a large number of domestic operators and individuals have collected almost the same amount of nearly 40 million dinars, so, in reality, they have raised about a million euros in funds to buy houses for these persons. The Committee on Labour and Social Policy will continue its work to monitor the situation and activities of these most endangered populations. I would really like to, and I ask my colleague Bhu, if he is able to, to include himself and to help us, because I know that he is very much following this situation; in any way help us, and the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, could be welcome. Full information and a copy will be delivered to my colleagues, Buhi. Once again, I apologize and thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3136	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Dragan Stevanovic, saying the violation of the Rules of Procedure, then by Natasa Jovanovic, and then by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh, if it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which states in its first position that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the Assembly and I am speaking very specifically to Mrs Kolundji, because I believe that she has violated the dignity of the Assembly. Before this half-hour break, Mrs. Kolundjia went out for this pay phone and tried to defend something that was indefensible. This also shows the decision of the chairman of the Assembly, Mrs Comic, to interrupt the session, because the Parliament's dignity was not respected by MP Bosko Ristic, either, was not present in the hall when it was his duty and obligation. Because of all this, Mrs. Kolundjia, you have no right to go out more for this pay phone and to give us lessons about the rights and duties of the MPs. (President: People's MPs, you cannot speak from a pay phone to anyone, an MP from any of the MPs' groups, that he has no right to address the National Assembly. It's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. All MPs have the right to address the National Assembly. ) Mrs. Comić, if you'd let me finish what I was about to say, I don't think you'd need that reaction. You are constantly inspired by the need to make soares out of this assembly; you tried this on Friday with Mr. Martinovic, you tried this with Mrs. Verica Radet, now you're trying to do it with me. I really don't want to go into controversy with you or with Mrs. Kolundji, I don't want to cause replication, or anything else, I'm just saying and explaining my advertising of damage to the Rules of Procedure. As for my remarks to you to make soars, I am telling you because I did not use any vulgar or rude word, neither Mrs Radeta nor Mr Martinovic on Friday. If you want to talk, we can talk, but behind this hall door, it's no problem and I'm not running away from it. But don't interrupt me, because I never once violated the Rules of Procedure in the context of using ugly, vulgar, rude words to interrupt me. Let me finish what I started. Mrs. Kolundjia, I think that the rights and duties of the MPs most of all need to have a conversation at your MP's club. This was shown by Mr Ristic earlier, you and your entire parliamentary group show this, since, on the proposal of the President of the Assembly, whom you chose, you were unable to gather your MPs and discuss all these points of the agenda. As for the rights of MPs, the Serbian Radical Party and all its MPs are well ruling the Rules of Procedure and have shown you this in the last three days. Be assured, by ruling well with the Rules of Procedure, we will seek to restore our rights to all 20 mandates that you have taken from us, directly or indirectly, and finally regain the electoral will of the citizens in the true and original form that it was after 11 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3138	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is passed by a national MP, the vice-president of the Natasa Jovanovic Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3139	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I've already reported to the Rules of Procedure. If you'll excuse me, I'll be brief, as per Article 1. A Rules of Procedure that regulates the rights and obligations of the Members of Parliament, to give one explanation, just enough to make a comparison... (President: Natasa Jovanovic's National MPs, a word can be obtained by the Rules of Procedure only if the MP before the procedure is violated during the session, when he is told to speak of injury to the Rules of Procedure. You know very well all the members of the Rules of Procedure who regulate it. So if you want a word by hurting the Rules of Procedure, only in that case can you get it. The Rules of Procedure do not define the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; say which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. ) Article 104. (President: here you go. ) Article 104. The Rules of Procedure - the dignity of the National Assembly and the MPs in the afternoon discussion of some persons identified here by the service and you as MPs, and they are citizens, disfellowshipped members of the Serbian Radical Party. As they insult the dignity not only of every Serbian radical, but of every young, nationalally conscious citizen of Serbia, the fact is that in these hours as we speak at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the centre of Kragujevac, at the headquarters of our forest diocese, an action organised by the Youth Council and the sport of the SRS city board is being held. So, at this point, at the center of Kragujevac, at least 30 young people, students of the Kragujevac Faculty of Law (some are already graduates), who are collecting signatures for the petition to support Prof. Vojislav Seselj, whom we want to refer to the president of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, that Dr. Seselj, who defends the country and Serbia before The Hague tribunal, is not forced by a defender, as they intend to do by these villains in The Hague, in which he who is a disgrace to the Kragujevac, is excluded, former member of the SRS - Tomislav Nikolic. Now his intentions have been seen and recognized, since all the masks have fallen, and the Kraguje radicals and my esteemed fellow citizens. Unlike him, these people who are the future of Serbia with their activities on the streets of the town of Kragujevac and going to the homes of people who want to receive them... And believe me, by following all this that is happening and what Tomislav Nikolic has done to help the evildoers in The Hague to interfere with the defence process of our president, with an even greater zeal and even greater truth in the heart, in the fight for the freedom of our entire people, not only for the freedom of Vojislav Seselj, they are doing such an honorable thing. That is why I call not only on all Kragujevcans, but on all citizens of Serbia, to join these young people, activists of the SRS and all Serbian patriots, in the fight for what is most sacred to us, and that is the freedom of our people. If you look at Article 23. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the free development of personality and freedom, you will see that some people here, who are falsely represented as MPs, do not want freedom for anyone. They only want an interest in themselves, in their own pocket, in their closest associates, in outlaws who, at the moment of the murder of our president, have done everything they can to order these executioners and those who do not allow us to live as a normal people. We are joining our delegation tomorrow at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It's not an accident that monitoring committee report was taken off the agenda. What do you think it's about? Because the state institutions and the National Assembly are mostly treated, but the Kosovo and Metohija issue is the most treated. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. How is it that at this very moment Boris Tadic comes out with the idea, which Dobrica Ćosic first presented in 1994, on the division of Kosovo and Metohija? I think that today, especially when we talk about what the United Nations is doing and we mention that day, we should have opened that question and not just heard our voice... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... but also the voice of you others who voted for... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3140	National MPs, respect for the National Assembly and respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say it's time for three minutes. The MP says she is glad to be warned at the moment she talks about Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, which is incorrect. You were warned at a time when you spoke 30 seconds longer than the Rules of Procedure of a given time, you said you were ending in four minutes, which is a minute longer than the allowed time, you also didn't finish. It is a violation of Article 104 of Law 1, which obliges us all to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. This dignity is shown by the respect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the first place. The People's Messenger, Milorad Buh, has the word, saying the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and after that, the Messenger of Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank Mr Meh Omerovic, who gave additional information regarding 40 million dinars given for humanitarian purposes. It was not my intention to oppose or in any way criticize the humanitarian action. I intend to thank all those people who participate in these humanitarian actions. Here I will mention Mr Dragan Tarlac, who has invested huge funds in restoring one of the oldest Serbian monasteries in Croatia, a monastery of Krka; then, in building several churches in Croatia. In addition, we must mention Vladimir Radmanovic, who is also investing, as well as all other athletes and people of goodwill who help the refugee and exiled population, refugees from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. We have to mention here the way it was done. So we have to look at both the legal and the financial side. When we talk about the legal side, then we have to say this: the state resources invested in building and buying houses, apartments and other properties remain state property. The moment the state invests those funds in housing, the users of that space remain, in a legal sense, the users, but not the owners. When it's a private fund, in this case it's the Divac Humanitarian Fund, then it's property or charity fund or private fund. That's how we transfer state funds for private purposes. We, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Own Relations, must not do so. From a financial point of view, we cannot do this because we have an authority responsible for doing these jobs. It can be done by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, it can be done by the Commissioner for Refugees. Take the Divac humanitarian organization – it has no more than two or three people; we have thousands of workers in the state structure who do these jobs. Now we need to allow some humanitarian organization to decide who they're going to assign, who's priority in terms of security of these funds and security of living space. We can't let private funds do this with state resources. The objection goes that way. So we must not, in a legal sense, allow the transfer of state resources from the Republic of Serbia's budget to private funds. We can't do that if we have a state institution dealing with these affairs. Furthermore, in a legal sense, it's a classic money laundering, regardless of all the humanity we can talk about in one way or another.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3142	The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljević has the word, saying the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and then after that, the People's Messenger Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3143	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, just now Vice-President of the Gordana Komic Assembly, has explained to the distinguished Vice President Natasa Jovanovic that the MP has the right to report to the Rules of Procedure only if he advertises that the procedure or some member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been violated. I think she made a mistake, and I hope one of the lawyers, since I'm not a lawyer, will give me an additional notice. Let's say, Article 225. The Rules of Procedure say: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the Members of Parliament. For a more complete notification, official publications of the National Assembly and the information and documentation material on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session and on other issues from the work of the National Assembly shall be regularly provided to Members of the National Assembly." Article 226: "The MP shall have the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the function of the MP". These two members speak of what the MP has the right to do, do not speak of a breach of the procedure under the Rules of Procedure. When he picks up and asks someone to give him an answer from all these officials, for any question that came up yesterday, the day before yesterday, he gets information. So it wasn't a broken Rules of Procedure. Why does someone have to keep in touch and say they broke the Rules of Procedure if they're looking for information about something? What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Don't say he's a broken Rules of Procedure. Stop harassing us from the presidency, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3144	The wording for breach of the Rules of Procedure is based on article 100, and this article is applied whenever one of the MPs raises the Rules of Procedure, as a sign to the Secretary of Parliament and to the chairman that he wants to get a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. The MP now found that the members of 225 and 226 were not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, you can't both, you can't even get a word in terms of breaking the Rules of Procedure and talking about things that aren't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You, with my personal gratitude, have given the argument that the practice we have introduced (and which I do not consider to be bad), to speak about the members of 225 and 226 so that they relate to the course of the session and not to the rights and duties of the MPs, now very explicitly, in the stenogram we will see, help everyone to decide. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, and the search and receipt of information does not constitute the subject of Article 1, Article 100. So you wouldn't be able to get a word in the law of the Rules of Procedure's Violation Championship. When I said he couldn't do business, he couldn't. The practice we have introduced, which I also don't think is bad, is that MPs use members 225 and 226 to get the information they need to work on the session. They, with gratitude for your suggestion, will be so applied, and the MPs who declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure will receive the word as soon as the previous speaker has finished his presentation. Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic, if it is a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3145	I am reporting for advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 226. I don't want to quote Article 226, which is repeatedly quoted in the Assembly today, but I'd like to quote Article 46. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, relating to freedom of opinion and expression, and in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Freedom of opinion and expression, Article 46: "Freedom of opinion and expression is guaranteed, as well as freedom to speak, write, picture or otherwise seek, receive and spread information and ideas". So this member of the Constitution is in accordance with Article 226. If you prohibit members of the SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj from their right under Article 226. Rules of Procedure, you are also violating Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, as well as Article 46. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Dr. Vojislav Seselj has warned for years that foreign intelligence services are not standing still and will try to destroy the SRS. A puppet-issue group with a citizen Tomislav Nikolic stole the mandates from the Serbian Radical Party. That is why we believe that it is legal, moral, honorable, democratic, by law and by the Constitution, to return our stolen mandates. However, the ruling coalition does not seem to be responding. Citizen Tomislav Nikolic is an accomplice to The Hague prosecutor's office in an attempt to liquidate Vojislav Seselj. Tomislav Nikolic is helping The Hague tribunal violate the basic human rights of Dr Vojislav Seselj by trying to impose on him and thus kill him. The communication of Vojislav Seselj with his legal team was abolished thanks to Tomislav Nikolic, and the issue of the day will be banned and communication with the family. Finally, the Serbian Radical Party is most important to defend its president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and to prevent his murder in The Hague. The situation that happened before the break is repeated. This time, Mr. Bosko Ristic left this distinguished parliament and thus injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, by not respecting this parliament, do not respect the MPs who sit regularly in this assembly, and he does not have time even when he is obliged to sit. It is a demeaning not only of this assembly but of all citizens of Serbia. That's why I'm asking you to sort of point out the mistake this gentleman's been making for the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3146	Three minutes and thirty seconds, by not leaving me room for meeting my obligations under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You referred to the members of 225 and 226, and you didn't ask for any information from anyone. It is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure and disrespect of the National Assembly. Please don't do this, for the simple reason that the pay phone comes out with a call to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 100(1) to Article 104, Article 1 and Articles 225 and 226, and I'm releasing the chairman's obligations under Article 100(3), he doesn't have to explain anything to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3148	People's MP, what you're saying at the speaker of the National Assembly is disrespect for the National Assembly. It's a behavior that's inadmissible for anyone who calls on the same members. So you are neither in a position to free anyone of any right, nor are you in a position to defend anyone's rights. You've got a word to say "injury" to the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to express yourself in the context of the word received, and by respecting the Rules of Procedure, you are expressing yourself at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3149	All right, then explain to me when I use my three minutes; you can use Article 100 of Item 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3150	National MP, it is not up to you, nor to the chairman, to decide which member and position may or may not be used. I ask you, indeed, to understand that you are very rudely violating the dignity of the National Assembly by the way you address the speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3151	It's really not clear to me now, Madam Chairman, I've freed you, and you're angry. I'm saying, okay...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3152	I give you a warning, People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3153	Do I have to pay right now, or are you going to say no there?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3154	The MP knows very well that according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Penalties, only on the Administrative Committee is made following the notice and decisions made on them. National MP Dragan Todorovic insists he does not need to know. That the MPs do not have to know what it says in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we have been witnessing for days. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we've clarified this galamatias, let's move on to Article 226 where it says - the MP should ask for an explanation and notice from the authorities. I'm asking the vice president, unfortunately, the fake Sceptan kid, therefore the false vice president of the National Assembly, Bozidar Delic, to explain the following to me. Today in "Justice" and another newspaper released a statement by Bozidar Delic, in which he, I paraphrase, said that for a month it has been known that Dr Vojislav Seselj will be introduced as a lawyer. How come Bozidar Djelic, excuse me, Bozidar Delic, however, has no big difference between them, how come Bozidar Delic knows for a month that Dr Vojislav Seselj will be introduced, when he does not even know that he has not yet, because he has not been ambushed, they have not determined what the views are all three judges, and then he does not yet know that Dr Vojislav Seselj will be introduced? Is that the boss of Bozidar Delic and the boss of the UN tribunal, he told this one before and he'll tell this one later? I demand that it be determined immediately how Bozidar Delic knows that Vojislav Seselj will be introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3156	The answer to that question you have asked cannot be given to you either by the chairman of the National Assembly or by any of the state authorities. You must ask the MP and vice president of the National Assembly of Bozidar Delic himself. National MP Momir Markovic is not satisfied with the answer. I ask that the stenogram be put to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Who broke the Rules of Procedure, MP? That the chairman of the National Assembly, the MP Gordana Komic, violated the Rules of Procedure by quoted provisions. The People's Messenger coming out of the O.R. says, "Gruba." So, according to quotes, the Rules of Procedure were harshly violated. The word is a folk letter from Vjerica Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so the MP Dragan Stevanović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and the MP of the people, Ognjen Mihajlović and Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic, for the time being.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's really been introduced recently, and I know exactly when... I speak on the basis of Article 221(1), which obliges me as a MP to participate in the work of the National Assembly. I would pray that when MPs appear on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, we stop paving. It is according to such a restrictive Rules of Procedure that the only passage of the MPs is that they can address the competent institutions and make statements of general interest to the citizens of Serbia etc. I don't think there's really a need for every time someone talks to members of 225 and 226 to be a controversy about whether they have a priority or not. Don't let now that we're solving the most important issue in the SRS, which is the question of the life or death of Dr. Vojislav Seselj, practice whether we can speak in these members or not. All the parliamentary groups in this House, when they needed to do so, used these two members. It used to take an hour, sometimes a day, sometimes three days. As long as the case of the SRS and our parliamentary group is going to last, nobody can tell you at this point. In fact, I suppose Boris Tadic has the answer to that question. If Boris Tadic finally cuts off and tells the authorities here that these groups of citizens are not MPs, he instructs you to return the mandates to the MPs of the SRS, then it will no longer be a topic. But the topic of trying to kill Dr Vojislav Seselj will be the topic for every Serbian radical as long as we exist. We will not allow Boris Tadic or The Hague tribunal or Tomislav Nikolic to do with Vojislav Seselj what was done with Slobodan Milosevic and others killed in The Hague. We Serbian radicals, Vojislav Seselj, now have one single task, and this task is to protect and preserve the life of Vojislav Seselj, who is seriously threatened by Serž Brammerc, Boris Tadic, Manter and, unfortunately, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3158	Calling on Article 221 and the obligation to participate in the work does not mean that any MP can receive a word without a basis. Therefore, participation in the work is a participation in all segments of the work of the National Assembly, and receiving words about infringements of the Rules of Procedure is subject to Article 100 and by this article all MPs who highlight the Rules of Procedure and seek word. Participation in the work does not mean that you get a word without a basis, we all know that we are involved in the work of the National Assembly. If there is an objection here that members of 225 and 226 are not members representing infringements of the Rules of Procedure, then the word cannot be given on the basis of Article 100, which in all its views treats only giving words according to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. This means that these MPs could get a word when, jointly participating in the work, we do all the other work during the session, and Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure is about getting words through the order for saying injury procedures, injury to one of the members of the Rules of Procedure during the session, that is, during the session. It's not my interpretation, it's clearly written in the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to explain why I'm not happy about it. The People's Parliament says she's not happy. I understand. In case you're not satisfied, they'll vote. (Faith Radeta, from the scene: I must say that because you have injured Article 104) The MP says she has to say why she's not happy. You don't have to say why you're not happy because my explanation is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. My explanation may not be good enough for you and that you are asking for a violation of a member of the Rules of Procedure and a provision that you have voiced in the day of the vote. Pronunciation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, according to MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I am advocating the violation of Article 100 of Article 3 which is brief and therefore I will read it: "The President of the National Assembly is obliged to make an explanation afterwards. "So, when an injury to a member of the Rules of Procedure is advertised, you should give an explanation. I am one of the few MPs who had this "privileged" to remain deprived of your explanation after pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This time I'm reporting exclusively for reasons I don't want to be the only one, so I'd like to ask you, if you could, to respond to my advertising of the Rules of Procedure's injury because you just didn't give me any answers. I ask only for the truth and for the full information of the citizens, as a fellow MP on this left has just said about this speaker. Once again, I would ask you to give me an answer, if you find such a foundation in the Rules of Procedure – were you just, before the break, right when you interrupted the session because of the fact that Bosko Ristic was not in the O.R. or did Mrs Kolundzija violate the dignity of the Assembly because she tried both MPs and the public to convince that a session without Bosko Ristic could continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3160	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija was right, and the break was given because the MP Srdjan Spasojevic was given a word by members of 225 and 226, asking where Bosko Ristic was. To obtain information on the whereabouts of MP Bosko Ristic, we gave a 30-minute break. Are you satisfied with the answer? No, I don't. ) Do you want to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure made by the chairman? So you're just not satisfied, and without a vote, that is, the MP is dissatisfied with the answer. The word is made by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3161	Mrs. Comic, a colleague of mine just called about article 100. I'm also reporting this time to advertise the violation of this member of the Rules of Procedure, Section 3, regarding another member. "The People's MP," I quote, "is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion has been violated, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, with the ability to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote." The third position reads: "The President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards." Here's the accent on this after. I don't think my colleague Stevanovic was explicit enough, so maybe you didn't understand him. The fact that you do not respect this very attitude was best seen when MP Momir Markovic spoke. Two or three times you rudely distracted him by pressing, I assume the red button is in front of you. So you're making conclusions before the man finishes his sentence. It is the same system by which the Hague Inquisitors rule out our president – whenever they don't like what he says, they press the rescue red buttons. You, ma'am, have no right to conclude until you hear me out, as well as any MP. These are the basic assumptions of democracy. You quote members by heart, you know them. Now, in my modesty, I always carry this book with me and because I read it regularly I don't miss such important sentences, such important words. This word "after" here, which is literally underlined, is very important and is not accidentally put into this candle. I am also taking this opportunity to draw the public's attention to our president's life being compromised, and we, as members of the SRS, are obliged to repeat and repeat again what is happening to him. Why? Well, he's the president of our party. The party without him doesn't work, it's not complete. All of you here, from all the other parties, have your own presidents, are alive, are healthy and are in Belgrade. Our president is in The Hague tribunal, in the casamat, for six years, preparing to take his life, and we should keep our mouth shut? It is, gentlemen dear, unnatural; we will not remain silent until this thing is driven out into the open and until his life is safe. I must tell this occasion that Tomislav Nikolic is not an uneducated man, is not a naive man. If he quoted some records from the defense team's session, I don't think he did it by accident, just because he's an educated man; he knows it has to pull the strings. Every one of his defenses that it was done in a bile show or any other mood simply falls into the water. He had to put his emotions in a different plan and not do it. He may have wanted to prove some of his truth, but by doing so, he only proved his intention to harm our president. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. Thank you, and I hope you take me seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3162	The application of Article 100 is related to Article 103(2), which says: "No one can interrupt a speaker or warn him, except for the President of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure". National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic throws out of place, which is something sanctioned by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Therefore, the termination of the MP is an obligation, under Article 103(2), when cases described in these Rules of Procedure are made as prohibited. It is forbidden for any MP to address any of the words "you have no right to speak and you have no right to address the National Assembly". It is the greatest possible insult to any parliament, when someone tells anyone that they have no right to speak or that they have no right to speak. The case of Article 103(2) was when I reminded MP Momir Markovic that he could not speak from the speaker of the National Assembly and he understood it. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic, saying the injuries of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3163	Dear fellow Members of the People, I went out to the Rules of Procedure, using my right to Article 225 and Article 226, in the hope that...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3164	National MPs, if, as you say, according to the Rules of Procedure, which is not regulated by any member, you have no right to get word over the line. I'm sorry, leave the pay phone. You have no right to receive your word if it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because I have no basis to give you my word, People's MPs, unless it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I have registered MPs talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and they have the right to receive word on the basis of Article 100. When these MPs who seek word for breach of the Rules of Procedure get word and say what violations of the Rules of Procedure have been made, then, possibly, word can be given on some other basis. This is what Article 100(1) is like. If it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can use your right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3165	I wanted to ask the chairman a few questions. I'll use the right of members of 225 and 226 to cause some reaction to the Madam Chairman, to understand how delusional she is. So I'm not competing with Mrs. Chairman in physics because I know she's far stronger than I am. When it comes to something like this, such as the Rules of Procedure, or something related to legal matter, there, let me, however, speak to Mrs. Comic equally. Because she's gained some experience since 2000 as vice president of the National Assembly; for a time after that, I've been in that position, so I've learned something. So since there is obviously no intention of doing this part of the agenda, because some judges have been waiting since 2006 to be resolved, and even the previous president of the National Assembly didn't want to put it on the agenda, and now neither does Mrs. Komic obviously want to put it on the agenda, I ask her why she does it, why does she put these people in such an awkward situation? That's one question. The second question is, Mrs. Comic, if we are all equal here, and you are a People's MP, is it possible that you from that place can't do any harm to the Rules of Procedure, or that, eventually, you are challenging the replica of the People's MP? It's an impossible situation. You're not in any superior position compared to us, that place, one step, doesn't give you the right. Thirdly, that I am right when I say that there is also a Rules of Procedure and that the violation of the Rules of Procedure is just proof of the right to reply, because article 101 gives you the right to go out for a pay phone and to replicate someone who spoke before that... Please, Mrs. Kolundjia, when you want to speak to me, step out for this pay phone. You are now committing a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the chairman is not responding, because it is forbidden to throw off the bench. I ask that everyone be self-aware here and independent in their work, that no one works by someone else's dictatorship, if you want to work. I am convinced that absolutely all MPs support me in what I said and that it is obvious that Mrs. Comic is obstructing today's work of this session, I don't know why, the judges should wonder why, besides perhaps you, Mrs. Kolundzija, and the gentleman sitting next to you. I don't want to mention his name, he'll become very popular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3166	The question that Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic asked, on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, which I can answer is whether I violate some of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yes, I've been breaking Article 222 all day today. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the obligation of Members of Parliament to place parliamentary cards in the electronic voting and registration system, by giving a word to Members who, by electronic system and by obligation of Article 222, are not in the room. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants us to plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which I said, not her. But it's another violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask that the stenogram be made known in the voting day, and I stress that I will vote in favour of breaking the Rules of Procedure. I ask all MPs to vote for the violation of Article 222. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the future, if and when we vote that I have violated Article 222, any MP who violates Article 222 automatically has a warning behind him as a penalty measure for violating a serious member of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to thank Parliamentarian Gordani Pop-Lazic for suggesting that this be absolutely clear, as well as Parliamentarian Sladjan Myaljevic for previous suggestions that we make a final clear distinction about what Article 100 is, and what are members of 225 and 226. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3167	Infringement of Article 104, Mrs. Comic. Before that, I would ask you (and I could call again, it doesn't matter) to ask Mr. Secretary to determine if I once, and I spoke several times, I spoke, without having my card inserted into the place where it should be inserted. Mrs. Komic, you should have taken care of when you were answering Gordani Pop-Lazic. You said you've been breaking the Rules of Procedure all day. You gave me your word, and every time I was identified in my place. So you've told the truth. Whatever answer you give, I know that I will not be pleased with your answer, so I insist that in the day of voting, the MPs will be made aware of whether you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly when you made the lie that I did not identify myself in the seat of the MP's card. When you replicated your colleague Sladjana Myaljević, because it really was a replica, I got a message on the phone that after my three-minute exposure, you explained three minutes and 20 seconds to me. Someone followed it. But, well, you're a campeic woman, a well-known thing. I don't mind, you talk. When you talk about article 221 and the fact that MPs are obliged to participate in the work of parliament, then don't speak to the MPs of the SRS. If anyone works in this House, then it's always been, not just these days, only the MPs of the SRS. Has anyone repeatedly reported to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, has anyone repeatedly reported asking for an opinion of general importance from the competent authorities, has anyone submitted more amendments than the MPs of the SRS; has anyone used all the time available in the Rules of Procedure, except the MPs of the SRS? Ask Bosko Ristic why you had to take a half hour break because of his absence and failure to participate in the work of the Assembly. Ask Oliver Dulic why we haven't discussed any motions for a ruling to dismiss judges from the judges' office for almost two years. Here we have the February 2006 proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3168	I guess we didn't get along. I haven't spoken the name of any MP I've allowed to violate Article 222, so I don't see why you're intervening for that to apply to you. I said that I was in violation of Article 222 which requires very clearly that MPs register when entering the hall and carry their MP card with them. If you look at the stenograms from the National Assembly session, I have called on the service of the National Assembly, and I have asked that these members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be respected because I believe that this is where all of us begin to respect the common house for which we share responsibility, which is this National Assembly. So I don't see any reason for you to intervene because I haven't mentioned any names, nor will I. Natasa Jovanovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3169	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you say this is our joint house. Yeah, you're right, but there are intruders here, so I'm asking you to find some means to solve that, because I'm not really competent to do that. I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 100, 104, 31, and Article 10. The constitution that you've hurt. Before you give me an explanation I insist, whatever your answer may be, however long it takes, that the Parliament in the voting day declare whether you, Gordana Komic, vice president of the Assembly, have injured the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Article 10. The constitution regulates the language and letter in the Republic of Serbia: "The Serbian language and Cyrillic letter are in official use in the Republic of Serbia. The official use of other languages and letters is governed by law, based on the Constitution. "I don't understand what language you speak. I protest, like most linguists in our country who have already protested, because of your way of speaking from that place, as vice president of the Assembly. Four times today you called me, i.e. you gave me a word in the Rules of Procedure and said "the word was answered by Natasa Jovanovic's MP". I ask that you do not usurp my rights as a People's MP, that you do not violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I suppose it's possible for you to learn this elementally from the Serbian language. All you have to say is, the Messenger of the people, and this, there is no problem. So, you're the first person to break the Constitution of our country and the language that's in use, and you're giving us some lectures. It really doesn't make sense, Mrs. Comic. So, I've been insisting on it since 2001; every time I insisted on it, you've advocated some new speech, as Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic does, and I don't know who, because you want to implement this new speech, which doesn't exist in the official Serbian language, to make a certain denunciation of our country, which I object to. I object, and I insist that you respect the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and address me normally. Since I see that you are today ornery to continue working as you are in the position of the chairman, I will have to, and will not be resented by the esteemed vice president of our party, Mr. Milorad Mircic, to promote you. Namely, when you started treating the MPs in 2001 and so on, your commanding officer Mircic gave you the rank of senior sergeant, and I am now promoting you to senior first-class sergeant.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3170	The National MP and vice president of the National Assembly said in the first part of her statement that there was no need to explain to her, that she knew in advance that I would not be able to explain and that she wanted the National Assembly in the day of voting to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The MP says she didn't say so, so we can take a look at the stenogram. So, in the first minute of my sentence of the Rules of Procedure, what I have said with my free quote was said, in order to respect the Rules of Procedure and to explain whether or not the Rules of Procedure were injured. What is the second part of the contents of the speaker’s speech has more to do with violating the dignity of the National Assembly than it has to do with the need to explain whether or not the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been violated. The People's Messenger says she's not happy. That's already said. Please listen to each other. I know it takes a concentration to watch who's talking so we can follow, but that's one of the obligations of Article 221, to participate in the work, which means we listen to each other. So, I said that the MP and vice-president of the Natasa Jovanovic National Assembly were unhappy and that in the day of the vote, we would declare her position that the Rules of Procedure had been violated. As for the use of language and letters, all the provisions quoted by the MP were correct. In use, according to the Constitution, is a Serbian language and is a Cyrillic. They taught me, like most of us who were born fifty-seven, sixty-seven, seventy-seven, and even eighty-seven, there are all these ages, Serbian. Now we know, by the Constitution it is a Serbian language. I'll always tell you on Cyrillic and Latin, "The People's Messenger," because it's an interest in a woman's gender. I believe that for all women, their interest should be, in accordance with the rules of that same Serbian language, where the nouns match in numbers, genders and declines, in women's genders. I thank and set a break until 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has been passed by MP Judita Popovic, representative of the LDP parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3172	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, I would firstly like to remind the honourable MPs that we are today discussing the 3rd item of the agenda, and these are the proposals for a decision on the termination of the duties of judicial officials. The Liberal Democratic Party will vote in favour of a decision to suspend the duties of judicial holders. I'd like to quote this article 4. The constitution that says the government's regulation rests on the division of power in legislative, executive and judicial matters, and the relationship of three branches of government is based on balance and mutual control. How much this legislative body, this Parliament, cares about the judicial authority, and the fact that a session of the Justice Committee was held on 22 September 2008 setting out a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of judges and prosecutors. When looking at the material, it can be found that there are judges who completed their working century on 1 August 2005, 24 November 2005, 1 March 2006 and so on. They are people who met the conditions for retirement during 2005, 2006 and 2007. All these years, therefore, the Justice Committee has not found it appropriate to put the agenda on the table to discuss a proposal for the termination of these functions. The evidence that the legislative authority absolutely ignores the importance of the judicial authority is the fact that we have several dozen laws in the area of justice that are very important, primarily for the reasons of our citizens' interests, and, secondly, perhaps for the reason that we have ratified the SAA, which normally obliges us to reform the judiciary. We will agree that the reform of the judiciary is necessary precisely because citizens want justice; the judicial authorities are mainly addressed for these reasons because they have some problems and expect court cases to resolve the problem, which is in the jurisdiction of the court. However, although the constitutional category is within a reasonable time frame, these trials usually take a very long time. When they are finally finished, it is very difficult to implement these judicial decisions precisely because of the obsolescence, or dysfunction of existing laws in the area of enforcement. Therefore, as the Supreme Legislative Body of this State, we are obliged to do whatever is necessary to enable that judicial authority to actually function as a judicial authority, not as a government that lacks some part of the energy that would give it a truly functional power. For this reason, it could have happened, let's say, to make a decision to abolish the land books found in municipal courts, and yet relocate that authority and jurisdiction of the judges as the most professional persons in this domain of record and protection of property rights in those books that exist, for example, in Vojvodina for about 200 years. This allowed, for example, the Ministry of Justice, to deliberately apply some rationalization of judicial employees, above all I think of administrative workers, to force the presidents of the courts to fire part of the administrative staff. In particular, in Zrenjanin, it was thus that he stopped working for about twenty workers, which again led to the situation that maltene was paralysed by the work of the court, because without this administration and without the workers needed in the work of the judges and the court could not function. Therefore, as the Supreme Legislative Body, I keep saying this, we have a duty and obligation to deal with what is in our jurisdiction, which is in the description of the work of this Parliament, which is primarily the adoption of the law. In recent times, not to say for months, we have been busy with procedural issues, or we have dealt with our rules of procedure; things have been said. But I'm notifying you that there is some kind of life going on outside this building, and that life is expected of the legislative body, I'm undermining again, to do something in that sense, to reform that judiciary. Because what do you say if 58 judges ask for the end of that function? Considering how many judges are currently working in Serbia, I think it's a really large number. We should really consider whether it's okay, whether there's something in the organisation of the judiciary that puts these people in a position to seek the termination of their functions. Otherwise, a judge's job is a very serious job, which requires both expertise and wisdom, as well as a certain experience. If we so often allow judges to come and leave the court, after some time they gain that expertise, routine and experience, then we can't wonder why we have such a situation in the judiciary, such long-term trials, such strange decisions and everything else that follows. Therefore, it is hypocritical to expect the judicial branch of the government to function impeccably and to produce results if we, as the Supreme Legislative Body, do not give much opportunity and help. Indeed, we deal exclusively with our own problems and, as far as we can see, it comes down to the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3173	The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Radet, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3174	Thank you very much. This is a midday long one, but you obviously forgot, or you don't have a list next to you. I reported on the basis of Article 100(4). When my colleagues from the SRS and I advertised the Rules of Procedure, you explained to us the way you explain it; we have nothing against it, but we got the impression that you care about respecting the Rules of Procedure. I just want to tell you as a lawyer, since you're not, so I'm allowing you to be unable to interpret legal regulations, so I expected Mr. Odalovic to distract you, the position of the 4th Article 100. The Rules of Procedure reads: "If, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in the statement that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on it in the day of the vote. "So you tried to communicate with the MPs by asking from there, from your place -- are you satisfied with the explanation. An apostle should nod whether he is or not, or shouting - yes, or not. You know, that kind of shouting is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We can't talk here like neighbors across the board. If the MP is not satisfied with your answer, then you are obliged to make it clear to the MP (I am speaking about interpreting this position, it is not strictly so written, but this is the only way to interpret it) that he says out of this place loud and clear, which is why he is not pleased with your answer, that it will enter the stenogram and that, on the basis of that, in the day of the vote, the National Assembly may vote on it. If you say "the People's Messenger is not pleased, so let the Assembly be heard," who knows that the MP is not satisfied, and especially who knows why the MP is not pleased. For this reason, I ask you to respect this article and this attitude 4 and to interpret it exactly as I have now explained to you. Ask the Secretary of Parliament, he's a lawyer, I'm sure he'll confirm what I said. I am using these ten more seconds to invite everyone in charge in Serbia, first of all Boris Tadic, to return to the Serbian Radical Party the mandates taken from them by a group of citizens who are playing MPs here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3175	The insight into the stenogram will make it clear that you yourself said that the way you explained article 100's fourth position is not strictly written and that this is your interpretation, which you have the right to, both professionally and professionally, and as a folk's letter. The interpretation with which I am in agreement, in relation to Article 4, Article 100: "If and after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in the statement that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without further ado, decide on the issue on the day of the vote", is that the question will be asked in the communication, as it has been so far. So I'm asking you if you're staying on the claim; you say yes or no, and then a fourth attitude will be applied, the re-senting of words won't be. It's an interpretation that I agree with. "Do you know whether I'm in agreement or not?" Do you agree with what, with my interpretation or with your interpretation? The Belief of Radeta, from the scene, with my interpretation. The National MP asks if she is in agreement with her interpretation. I can ask you – do you remain on the claim that the Rules of Procedure have been injured? The People's Parliament is neither non-verbal nor verbally giving a sign, so I'm interpreting that they won't ask us to plead in the day of the vote. The word was sought by MP Zoran Krasic. We will remain on the interpretation with which I am in agreement, that there will be questions - whether you remain on the claim, and the MP will be on whether he wants to answer that question or not. Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3176	Mrs. Komic, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I am referring to the Rules of Procedure and to the provision... (President: National MP, if you do not call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I cannot give you a word based on Article 100(1) that you will receive a word as soon as you have asked for it. Are you going to show a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not? ) I have told you which member of the Rules of Procedure I call upon. (President: National MP, Article 100(1), says the MP gets his word as soon as he asks for it, and as soon as the previous speaker is finished, if he calls for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The first sentence, when I gave you my word by saying that you were in violation of the Rules of Procedure, was that you were not calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Will you let me explain? (President: Not if you do not say you are calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is that the case? ( ) How do you think an MP can contact you under Article 225? (President: He can pick up, but he can't get a word based on article 100, across the line. ( ) How do I report to Article 225?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3177	When the list of speakers is exhausted. Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3178	Mrs. Komic, what you did earlier when I advertised article 100, and this time, Article 104. The Rules of Procedure represent the most severe violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I asked you on purpose if you knew, after your explanation, whether I was satisfied or not, I am not satisfied with your answer. You asked me that, I showed no sign of yes or no. So I've turned your attention, you can't communicate with the MPs as a neighbor across the board. Every time the MP throws something out of the bench, you even quote, you say, "The MP and that one," he said. So that's what you're saying to get into the stenogram, we understand that, and the MPs who earn certainly do just that to get into the stenogram. You just couldn't say that you had no idea whether I was in agreement or not with what you gave as an explanation, because there is not a single word in the stenogram that would remain written about whether I accept your explanation, or if I insist that the National Assembly in the voting day be made known about whether you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Since you are in permanently violating the Rules of Procedure, of course I am asking that the National Assembly in the voting day be made known whether or not you have just injured the Rules of Procedure. And of all the state authorities, first of all, from Boris Tadic, his mentor, the US ambassador, who is unfortunately the main state body today in Serbia, and their servant Tomislav Nikolic, I ask him to declare when he will return the parliamentary mandates to the SRS. I ask when the authorities will take these measures, because what this ambassador group is doing is jeopardizing Dr Vojislav Seselj's life. The Hague tribunal has made the decision to disable privileged communication with legal advisers and his defence team because Tomislav Nikolic made false stenograms out of an alleged meeting with the party president public.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3179	I ask that the voting day enter the application for a declaration of violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radeta, Article 100(4). National MP Momir Markovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3180	Ladies and gentlemen, a while ago, the chairman, vice president of the National Assembly, gave me a harshly injured notice from article 106. Rules of Procedure. In Article 106, it reads: "The warning is made to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the President of the National Assembly... "I didn't approach the pay phone before the chairman gave me her word, "... who spoke before he asked and got the word," I also didn't, "... who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, is talking about a question that is not on the agenda," I advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 100, 1 and 103, paragraph 1, therefore, this indent could not be used to give me a warning, "... if the speaker interrupts or throws, or interferes with the speaker or otherwise endangers freedom of speech... ". The only person who was threatened with freedom of speech during my date for this pay phone was me, by the chairman, because three times she turned off my microphone to tell me what she had to say to me. The first time I said I wasn't looking for an explanation under Article 100 of Section 3 where it was said, "The president of the National Assembly is obliged to post-explanation," so when she turned off the microphone and re-activated the power, I said, "Okay, then I accept, explain it later, and on that basis I got a warning. He says, "... if it presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons." I did not mention the private life of others, nor the MPs or the citizens of Serbia. If private life is the kidnapping of SRS parliamentary mandates, then I am; if the private life of co-operation with The Hague tribunal is so that Dr Vojislav Seselj is imposed by a lawyer, I was saying so, but I don't consider it a private life. And then, "... or if he uses swearing and offensive expressions." It's just a matter of work. In the end, he says, "... if it interrupts the speaker and throws away, or interferes with the speaker or otherwise endangers freedom of speech." I didn't throw any MPs away, and I didn't threaten freedom of speech. Therefore, I feel that the chairman has punished me for only her known reasons. I demand that in the day of voting this Parliament be declared whether I have violated the Rules of Procedure and whether the chairman has violated the Rules of Procedure, and that is Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3181	In the voting day, your proposal will be put to the vote. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3182	Madam President, I'm glad you're back, precisely because of this member whose injury I want to advertise. I couldn't explain it to my colleague, Komic, because she doesn't want to understand how she systematically hurts the Rules of Procedure back a few hours. But in voting day, we'll get to the bottom of it. She hurt the Rules of Procedure and you hurt the Rules of Procedure. This is a Article 31 that regulates the rights and obligations of vice presidents of the National Assembly. In fact, Madam President, you've been away for a while. I believe you have a lot to do. And, thanks again to the service of the National Assembly, this morning I received notices from which accredited ambassadors you met these days to discuss the position and what the National Assembly is doing. It's really nice, as these DOSs would say, transparently, that I know and that I have insight, as vice president of the assembly, who you're meeting with, unlike those who pose falsely as MPs, like this unfortunate Nikolic who meets with both Manter and Wardsworth, and with the others and nobody else, probably just someone from MZ Bajcetin, if they're going to listen to it. Although I believe that people despise it there too; they did not vote in the elections to sell state interests in such a way and try together with the prosecution to kill the president of our party, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. I'm advocating the Rules of Procedure and you may tell me, as once was the case when I also objected, that this is not a strict provision when someone is replacing you right now, but I insist that it is always respected, because it is only Article 31. The Rules of Procedure regulate the position, rights and duties of the Vice President. In fact, this member says that in case you're prevented from performing your duties, you don't think physically that you're not here, that you're absent, but that you're chairing... Because a member who speaks of what you do as president of the Assembly in the first position says that you chair the meetings of the National Assembly. So, if you're prevented from doing that, and all other jobs, you're setting one of the vice presidents, he says, "What is he informing all vice presidents and secretaries of the National Assembly?" Of course, you didn't do that. Well, he says, "If the president of the National Assembly doesn't determine which one of the vice presidents replaces him, in the event of temporary prevention he will be replaced by the oldest vice president." I suppose Serbia's citizens, too, are probably the oldest vice president, but I can't say for sure, there may be a stalemate between her and Mr. Novakovic. I would ask you, Madam President, to inform me in the future, as well as all vice presidents of the Assembly, who is who replaces you in the event of your prevention. If it is true, and I would like to know it, Mrs. Komic, the oldest, then to be according to this attitude 3 is regulated, as it is; and if not, if by any chance, colleague Novakovic, what I do not believe, then perhaps, then let us know the next time you leave for an hour, for two hours, who is the one who replaces you in the event that you chair the meetings of the Assembly, so that we do not come into the situation that someone unauthorizedly usurping the powers of the National Assembly president.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3183	Ms. Jovanovic, when it comes to the need to, most often in this building, do other jobs without being in the O.R., I always quietly inform everyone (with a tendency not to disturb the course of the session) that it is often Mrs. Komic, who has the most experience. The Rules of Procedure say, "The President of the National Assembly, in the event of temporary prevention, replaces one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly whom he has appointed, to which he informs the secretary and vice-presidents." You may not have heard, but I said quietly, the others do not hear, that Vice President Komic will replace me. In the future, I'll do it separately, I'll tell every vice president, but I really think it was loud enough for you not to disturb the atmosphere or the work that was going on. National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3184	Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, I've come out here and I said, "I don't want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure because I don't think it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I'm calling on members of 225 and 226." Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Comic said... (President: You can only speak if the Businessman is injured, if you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Will you listen to me? (President: I will. ) Please, there is no need to worry at all, she said – as long as those who advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure appear, you who are looking for 225 and 226 can't. Here, in order to meet that condition, I asked Mrs. Komic – and when can I answer? She said, "When it's over with the injuries." No, I don't. Okay, here, the breach of the Rules of Procedure was done by not giving me your word, and now I'm going to explain why you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Members of 225 and 226 have the capacity to enable MPs to be informed of both future and current topics on the agenda. I suggest, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, given the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, given the provisions of the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, given what the Ministry of Justice has presented on its site, that the MPs be informed of what is true. What's this about? The official Justice Ministry site states that seven laws in the area of the judiciary, or even the ministry's jurisdiction, are in the assembly procedure. The document of the acts proposed by the government to the 2008 Assembly in areas that are widely observed, in the jurisdiction of the justice ministry, contains a list of 25 laws. Please, this is a document that was made in 2007. The minister was Dusan Petrovic, and now the minister is the woman who was an intern at Batic's. And, of course, as soon as they're Batic's interns, then he's on his way to The Hague. She signed probably, not likely but certainly, and a solution to the delivery of Radovan Karadzic to The Hague tribunal. Thus, she uncomparably used more of her working time to deliver than to fulfill the legal and constitutional obligations not only of the Ministry but also of the National Assembly. Citizens must understand who is blocking the legislative work of the National Assembly. First of all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And, to let us know exactly what these two documents... (President: Time. I'm done. (President: Good. There's no need to worry. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about the basic information we need to work on. You're not allowed to talk about it, you're making obstructions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3185	Okay, you're the one who said it in the Rules of Procedure. It's not an injury... (Zoran Krasic: 225th in Business, not in the air. )......................................................................................................... but according to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search for a word in writing, of the submission of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, of the SRS, of the ZES, and that the order of the candidates reported is such that I am asked for one small change, since Professor Nikola Žutic has certain urgent tasks, as he takes part. Here, you have the word, and then you, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3186	This is a unique opportunity to talk widely about the insecure position of judges and the incompleteness of Serbia's network of courts. Serbia's constitution underlines the independence and continuity of judges who could compromise the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which under the constitution has great powers. According to the Constitution, Article 148, I quote: "The judge ceases his office on his request, by acting under the law of the prescribed conditions or by dismissing the law of the intended reasons, as well as if he is not elected to permanent office. The decision to suspend the court's office shall be taken by the High Judicial Council. Against this decision, the judge has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court. "Although the Assembly chooses judges, it does not participate in their shift. The constitution further prescribes the non-politicality of the judiciary and the judges since the political functioning of the judges is prohibited. However, judicial practice is often denied by the prescribed constitutional provisions on the non-politicality of judges and the High Council of the judiciary. Unfortunately, the premature termination of the duties of judicial officials is often not caused by criminal acts, inexperience, but by the political decision of the ruling political factors. In Broz's socialist time, judicial functions could only be performed by morally political-like judges who tried so-called judges. People's enemies and enemies of socialism. Democratic changes from the 1990s did not ensure the independence and independence of judges. For example, Milosevic's regime was replaced by numerous judges in Serbia in 1992. Working on monographs at the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Belgrade District Court, I noticed that the judge's mass shift is happening at the time of major political and state breaks. This was the case in 1991, 1992, especially after October 5th; in April 2001, a decision was taken to remove as many as 37 judges. Even today, no political dictatorship has been released in the judiciary. The shift of today's government would probably produce a judge's shift. Gentlemen, I think we agree that politics is very present and that cancer is the Serb judiciary. A major problem with the Serbian judiciary is the unfinished network of judicial institutions. The holders of judicial functions are not appointed for courts provided for in the 2001 law and the newest constitution because they are not even formed. Namely, the 2001 Law on Courts provides for the establishment of appeals courts, the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Administrative Court. I must point out that in the judiciary, there is a kind of institutional vision and a discrepancy between the Law on Courts and the current Constitution. It is simply inconceivable that today the law of 2001 is legally valid, although it is not legally in line with the Constitution. Unfortunately, there is no Justice Minister here, it would be good if he were here with us. Earlier, I asked former Minister Petrovic a question about this issue of an unfinished network of courts. So again, I ask the Minister of Justice if he intends to adapt the Law on Courts of 2001 to the provisions of the new Constitution? There are a number of misunderstandings and discrepancies. The 2001 Law provides for the education of the Court of Appeal, as well as the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court. This law provides for the three-stage trial, however, the Court of Appeal was not established, so in practice it remained two-stage court proceedings. On the other hand, today's Constitution does not mention any of these courts except the Supreme Casation Court. That's not exactly the happiest name for a three-step court. There is one important resolutional ally "i", meaning, because it is about different institutions: The Supreme Court is a judicial instance, while the Casation Court is an instance that approves or no judgments. So there is a certain legal discrepancy. I ask the question of the Minister – will the Court of Appeal be educated at last with departments or will the new, or will the old Supreme Cassation Court perform second-degree functions as before? Today's democratic Serbia has a two-stage judiciary. It is incompatible with the fluids of liberal democracy and the ideology of civil liberalism. The so-called European democratic governments have been unable to get close to a three-stage liberal model of the judiciary since 2000. That wasn't even 1945, we had the Supreme Court and county courts as second-degrees. Gentlemen, Serbia's Principality has still imposed a three-stage trial since 1846, when Serbia's Supreme Court was educated. Prior to that, the District Court was educated in 1840 and the Court of Appeal. So, civil Serbia had a three-stage judiciary at the time. Perhaps someone today matches the current two-degree trial control, reduced the right to appeal by one-degree. By introducing the Court of Appeal, the Supreme Court would be relieved. Often, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia complained that she was buried with pending cases precisely because no Court of Appeal was established to relieve the Supreme Court, which simply cannot function more than a large number of cases. Finally, to conclude, the establishment of high-level judges would give them a greater opportunity to show its judicial expertise by performing judicial duties in high courts, i.e. in appeals courts and administrative courts. The most important thing, finally, would be the three-step trial. The opposition's criticism over the ban on obstruction was said by MP Ristic, who said the other day that huge funds were being given to judges who were due to be resolved two years ago. Well, who prevented the previous Justice Minister from making a request at least a year ago to the Assembly to make a decision on the resolution of the judges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3187	Thank you. In accordance with Article 85, I would like to inform you that today we will continue our work after 1800 hours until the debate is concluded in principle, in particular according to the agenda item which will be on the agenda at 6 p.m. He has the word Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, and then Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda are the motions for a decision to suspend the duties of judicial officers. It is about seven decisions that this congregation needs to make. There are approximately four types of reasons why judges or prosecutors, namely: 1) on a personal request; 2) loss of their ability; (3) completion of the working century and (4) motions for resolution because of the unconscious performance of the judiciary. When it comes to this, therefore, each of these decisions contains a larger number of names, so it is not one decision for the one name of the judge or prosecutor. When it comes to reasons under 1), (2) and (3), therefore, it is on a personal request, then because of the loss of working ability, or because of the completion of the working age, we have no dilemmas, there is nothing disputed, and that is something that the congregation actually finds. What needs to be taught is that in the future it has to be much faster than it was this time. However, when it comes to the fourth reason for resolving judges, I think it is necessary to take a very good look at what it is. As important as it is to look at everything in detail when the judges are elected, or prosecutors, and to look at everything to make the right choice, it's just as important, if not more important, to look at all the details, to look at them to see the reasons for the resolution of individual judges. We here have a proposal for a decision given by the Committee on Justice as a proposal, because it is authorised to propose a decision on the resolution, on 22 September at the Committee's session, from which the proposal for these decisions was sent. I would like to introduce the Assembly to a new detail that has been present with us since 22 September, so from the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration. Namely, the motion for a decision to resolve the office of judges No. 01- 118-2170/08 stipulates that the duties of judges are to be resolved by Ljubomir Vukkovic for a criminal offence, it is not disputed, then Milivove Nedeljkovic, also convicted of criminal acts, i.e. he is also sentenced to criminal acts by III - three judges, i.e. the President of the Court of Justice, to be resolved because of the unconscious conduct of the judge's office: Vlasimir Dimic, Mirjana Lazarevic and Milorad Milin. I want to ask here, given that the decision is such as to declare all five, that there is a particular vote on the motion for a decision to resolve Judge Vlasimir Dimic, and here is why. Judge Vlasimir Dimic is a solution to the Grand Personal Council on 24 November 2006... On the basis of the above, it is concluded that there are reasons laid down in Articles 27, paragraphs 1 and 2 and Article 55, paragraphs 2 and 2. The law on judges of the Republic of Serbia to relieve duties. This isn't about a bad job done by the judge, it's about something else. It's about a judge who was judge of the Municipal Court in Kosovo Kamenica who was dislocated to Vranje. The aforementioned judge was elected Judge of the Municipal Court in Kosovo Kamenica, and then District in Gjilan, on a proposal from UNMIK. So, Judge UNMIK. These were the reasons that led the Great personal council to initiate the procedure. What happened in the meantime? New circumstances have arisen. The 17th of February of this year has unconstitutionally declared Kosovo and Metohija independence. On that day, Judge Vlastimir Dimic resigned, demanding resolution as UNMIK judge, so he stopped being UNMIK's judge. Then, at a session on February 21st, and then at a session on April 17th, the government brings the next conclusion -- the courts and public prosecutors of the Republic of Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija, whose headquarters is temporarily located in other parts of the Republic of Serbia, are taking over persons employed in courts, public prosecutors of Kosovo's provisional institutions and Metohija. So everyone who was in the interim institutions of Kosovo and Metohija is being taken over. On this basis, judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors were deployed to dislocated courts in Vranj. On this basis, Vlasimir Dimic was deployed on 1 March 2008, so he has received a salary since then, of course, also in Vranj. So they were returned to Serbia's judicial system, to courts on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What's the problem? The problem is that now it is a completely new situation, we are considering one decision from 2006, which was made in a different way in 2008, that is, by the government of that judge, and not only that judge, but all the judges that were in the interim institutions of Kosovo and Metohija are involved in the judicial system, all of them have been taken over since 1 March 2008 and are getting paid. Then what happens to these judges? Those reasons that existed no longer exist. For those reasons, and in order not to make a mistake, I ask that we make a special statement about this. Of course, there's still time to make a statement to look at all the legal facts, so that we don't make a mistake of any kind, so that we make a mistake and leave something that doesn't need to be left behind, or make a mistake at the expense of that man, if all of this is data, and I have a notice that this is a request and a Justice Committee with complete documentation. I think we should use this time until the vote to discuss all these issues well, and for these reasons we ask that Judge Vlasmir Dimic be voted in particular in the day of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3189	Thank you. Let me tell you about the next one. You have received a written notice that Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has informed me that the government is withdrawing a request to hold an extraordinary session of the Assembly, delivered by Act No 05, issue 06-3882/08 of 22 September 2008. The word is Mr. Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3190	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, without contesting a whole series of proposals on the discharge of the judicial duties of many judges and holders of judicial functions within the agenda point we are now considering, I would like to, on the basis of an article. 179th and 180th. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to talk about the third section of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of Judgeship No 01-118-2170/08. It is a motion to relieve the court's duties because of the unconscious performance of the judge's office, and it is the judges under the regular number of the 2nd Mrs Mirjana Lazarevic, the municipal court judge in Panchev. From the moment of the arrival of adequate materials in the Serbian Parliament, from 2006 to today, there were changed circumstances. Without a desire to be pathetic, I think that a detailed analysis of the personal occasions in which the judge mentioned may be found can lead to facts that justify that Mrs. Lazarevic is allowed to continue her work as a judge. The fact is, Mrs. Lazarevic has been in the judiciary for 32 years. The fact is that so far there has been no objection to its work in terms of conducting the procedure, but it is also a fact that during the period considered there has been some ineffectiveness in the work, above all in writing judgments. In that period, Mrs. Lazarevic had such personal opportunities that... Anyway, when I take them out, you'll realize she was in a special situation. In addition to the fact that she cared for her family and was forced to take care of herself because her husband had been engaged for over tens of miles [tens of km] away every day, she had been forced to take care of an extremely ill mother who died just in 2006. At the same time, her sister, the widow, had a heart surgery and then a cancer was established. In my examination of the facts, I came up with data that despite Mrs Lazarevic's safe conduct and there were no objections to that part, the fact that there was a certain lack of urgency in writing judgments. Noting that our committee seriously considered the efficiency of the work of judges during a certain period, I do not think our Committee on Justice and Administration was in a position to consider these facts, as well as the facts of the current work of Ms Lazarevic. I mean, first of all, on the 2008 calendar year. Understanding the enormous responsibility required by the holders of judicial functions, I believe that Mrs Lazarevic's responsibility and security as mothers, daughters and sisters and current work justify giving her further work as a judge, and in the sense of Article. 179th and 180th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that the Assembly be individually declared to the judge mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3191	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we need to make a decision on the resolution of 70 judges and 30 other holders of judicial functions, and it is mainly public prosecutors and their deputies. We need to make a statement based on their names and last names and place of residence. It's mostly the only data that's been delivered to us in this material that we've received. I find it truly inconclusive that in one such institution decisions on the resolution of such significant state officials as judges are made only on the basis of their names and names and place of residence. We can only guess if we should make a decision about a resolution on their personal request for years of age, because of years of work, because they do not carry out their work properly and securely, because they are politically inadequate or because they have resented one of the political or economic powers, these so-called. tycoon. Secondly, the fundamental question that is being raised is why we are discussing this issue only today. Mr. Ristic said three days ago that most of these judicial officials stopped doing their job about two years ago, or a year ago. On that occasion, he also noted that they have been getting paid for all this time and mentioned the amount of 100,000 dinars. If you add taxes to that amount of 100,000 dinars, contributions, you get about 160,000 dinars. That's 2,100 euros. When you multiply it by two years of work, you get a sum of 50,000 euros. Fifty thousand euros costs one session, a daily session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you multiply that by 100, you get five million euros. Yesterday I spoke to one of my acquaintances from the Great Plane who deals in construction. He told me that in the Great Plan of 5m euros, about 200 single-room apartments could be built. The next problem here is that one of these judges and prosecutors over the past two years, while receiving salaries as judges and prosecutors, has been doing the job of lawyers. I specifically know three former judges who used to work this time as lawyers. You know, that's one big moral, ethical and legal problem. How can someone come into a court building where he receives his salary as a judge, while at the same time in that building, the court is doing the job of a lawyer? By doing that other job, he receives each other's, uh, parallel salary. All this in a country that has several hundred young people, lawyers who passed a judicial exam and who are in vain waiting to get employment; in a country where we have a million people who are unemployed, who are waiting for a job and in a country where, as I said yesterday, according to official statistics, 400,000 people live below the poverty line. This is why I repeat the questions I asked three days ago. The first question is: how much money from the budget is unnecessary, unnecessary, set aside for these purposes? The second question is, how many judges do we have to solve in the meantime? The third question is: who's to blame for not finding this question on the agenda of the Assembly a year ago, 15 months or five months ago, but only today?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3193	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ristic, as a proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3194	Ladies and gentlemen, I've applied for a hearing and I'll use my right to do it when it's my turn. All I'm saying is, let me get this straight, there's something going on here at the pay phone, and it doesn't fit the facts. First of all, the claim that those who have left the judiciary on a personal request receive salaries and work at the same time as lawyers, thus also have a function because they are not resolved and paid in court, while at the same time running their private legal practice and earning, is simply not true. The judges and prosecutors who left the judiciary on a personal request received a salary for the first 30 days after the personal request and did not perform a lawyership or any other duty during that period. That's what they were right to do. The salaries were just received by those who had met one of the legal requirements for the completion of the full-time working century, and hence for the termination of the judicial office, so some of the decisions of the President of the courts received a working book and applied to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, while some, unconscious, with the well-being of some judicial officials as president, remained in those courts for two years and today they are in those places, at 67 years of age, and receiving full pay, which is really inadmissible and I don't think that's right. That is why it is the urgency of this whole process, to end with such a condition that after the adoption of a new set of justice laws, we would be in a position to regularly resolve all those who wish to or those who have met some of the conditions prescribed. Therefore, I would like to underline that it is not true that those people who, on a personal request, have interrupted the court's employment at the same time are working and receiving wages. It just doesn't fit the facts. There may have been some confusion over some misunderstanding in the current exposure, but it would be wrong for those colleagues who have safely interrupted their work hours, at a personal request, to be brought into a position to be even with those who have been doing nothing in court and who have received a salary for two years. One more sentence and I end up with it, which is that not all the judges and prosecutors who turned out to be working age in that position are getting paid for two years. There are some who are just now, since July or August this year. Some have not been put in such a position by their own fault because they wait a few months for the Committee to be scheduled to resolve this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3195	According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3196	Now it's really in the Rules of Procedure, it's Article 104. You think that's funny? I didn't point my finger. I don't know why you're laughing. What's this about? Mr. Ristic, you'd have to have a little dignity, and since you're telling me something, you're telling me full information, until the end. Now I understand why Mrs. Comic did not allow me to seek information and explanation by members of 225 and 226. You've told it all well here and it can sound nice for B92, for their website, for their forum, but it's far from true. Mr Ristic, last year you participated in the government of the Republic of Serbia, the minister of justice was Dusan Petrovic. This year you are back in the government, the minister is Mrs. Malovic. So, in 2007 and 2008, the ministry is literally a front of the Democratic Party. I'll just read the first decision. I don't want this on a personal request, since Mr. Ristic explained what it was about. I'll read the second part of the decision where the judge's office ends due to the completion of the working century: the candidate under number one, the judge's duty ends 7. 11. In 2007. Is the opposition responsible for that? A candidate under regular number two, ceases his duty as judge one. 1. In 2008. Or, candidate number 16, the Judge of the Trade Court in Novi Sad, ceases his duty as judge. 3. 2006. Do you have a calendar at home? You say you're under article 161. The Rules of Procedure proposed an emergency procedure for this decision and you're cheating on us all again. Why? The choice, resolution and termination of the court's duties goes by automatism, does not require an emergency procedure. And what's the emergency procedure when it's an emergency session? How long are you going to cheat on us? Thanks to who? Thanks to media who will say - the opposition blocked the assembly. How could we block the Assembly when you remembered a few days ago that someone had to stop the judge's duty on March 1st, 2006? What are we talking about? We have entered the second cycle, not the transformation and reform of the judiciary, as the Vice-President said, probably made a mistake, but the alignments and the laws and organisations with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a completely third dimension. It is true and break more in such a way that you insult the MPs and harshly violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3197	The word has Mr. Ristic as an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3198	I just want to say that the truth is that the minister of justice has any role to play in the resolution of judges, except that he participates in the High Council of Justice, where he is just one of the members. You have to know, we've been in a previous debate, during a report to the Rules of Procedure, hearing that the Great personal council has resolved judges and has not done its job properly. A large personal council only administers in those cases when one of the legal conditions for the completion of the working century is fulfilled and it is a clean application of the law in a more administrative business. There are records of judges with their birth dates, dates of employment, the duration of their term of office in courts, and therefore it is timely to inform the Assembly that a person with this and that date fills a full-time working life and thus the basis is to be created for the Assembly to resolve, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, that judge. It is true that there is one disagreement in this transition period between the standards contained in the old Constitution and what is now foreseen by the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the Law implementing the Constitution provided for a set of laws on justice to be adopted within a certain period. Of course, we all know, it is a notorious fact, that we have not respected until the end of the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because we had other urgent things at our meetings, but at the next session we will have a proposal for a set of laws concerning the judiciary, and I hope that all together, with good will, we will establish order within our legal system and bring institutions into a position that they can functionally and in accordance with the Constitution and the law to protect the human rights of the citizens of Serbia and all those who rightly address them. I want to say one more thing, this committee cannot bear responsibility, the Justice and Administration Committee in this assembly, because we have not been late in any way. The moment we got these suggestions, we put them on the agenda, by emergency procedure. In the previous assembly, this was not put on the agenda. However, I was not at the head of that committee, so I do not consider myself to be called. Why this is not put on the agenda in the previous term you can ask the previous president of the Committee, I cannot really give you an answer. You know that in that term before that, the Assembly did not function, that early elections had taken place precisely because there were no majority committees and there had been a blockade of parliament's work, which produced likely early elections, and after that we had two rounds of general elections in Serbia. We will try to coordinate our activities in the future with the need to make timely decisions on the status of judges. I also want to tell you that individual court presidents acted in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and when the legal reason came, they interrupted these judges and removed them from the courts, believing that they had fulfilled the working century and that they could exercise their rights through the Pension Insurance Fund. I would like to set an example of the President of the District Court in Belgrade, Mr Okic, who in some cases has made a decision on the termination of the work of these judges, and now there is only that difference between the working internship, still an existential function that we must break up by our decision because the Assembly is now the only one in charge to decide. I hope that a new set of laws and a new constitution will remove this discrepancy, so we won't be in a position to have a gap like this that really causes a lot of reasons for discussion, replication and here in Parliament itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3199	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Radeta. Then Mr. Dusan Maric, then Mr. Krasic. They're all replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3200	The replica refers to the first exhibition by Mr. Bosko Ristić, and partly the one he has just finished. In his first presentation, Mr Ristic presented some information that neither members of the Committee nor members of parliament have nor are available to them. I suppose he got it from the minister of justice, as he said, although he has no influence whatsoever, except that he's a member of the High Council of Justice, only that little thing. It would be necessary for all MPs, especially members of the Committee, to know all the details that you have presented here in your previous presentation. It is hypocritical and, I dare say, rudely to say that these decisions had to be made by an emergency procedure, that someone's fault had come to some people who were supposed to be resolved long ago, some of whom, as you said, applied neatly to the fund, were getting paid even though they were not working on the judge's office. Those who receive the salary were to be relieved, but they did not, Bosko Ristić called him unconscious, and I asked Bosko Ristić and asked the congregation's majority – who is actually unconscious? You have no excuse when you say you weren't the head of the Committee in the last session. You, Mr Ristic, have been the government in Serbia since 2000 (I mean you from the Democratic Party), and everything that has happened in Serbia since 2000 until today is your responsibility. You have no right to say that you are not responsible personally because Oliver Dulic did not put something on the agenda. You're from the same parliamentary group, from the same party. Do you have any reason why Oliver Dulic didn't put on the agenda for two days the motion for decisions we're discussing here today? You said in this final statement that at the next session... You tried to explain why the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution was not respected, of course, you failed to convince anyone that someone else was responsible except you, and you said that these laws in the area of justice would be found at the next session, under the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. I don't know how this suddenly stopped being a minor white Schengen leaf and these laws you just pulled.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3201	Mr. Dusan Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3202	Ladies and gentlemen, since I am legally quite ignorant, and as I said we did not get any additional information on the material we received for this item on the agenda, I deliberately relied on Mr Ristic's statement at the beginning of my presentation. Three days ago, he said from this pay phone that the judges we're discussing now are getting paid for the last two years. I stuck to Mr. Ristic's word. I don't believe he said it unconsciously; he said it very consciously and very trendyly. The basic message was – while you here, radicals, are obstructing, budget money goes, these people receive a salary of 100,000 dinars, and you do not allow us to vote to relieve them of the duties of judges. That's the first one. Secondly, in his presentation after my presentation, Mr. Ristic generally confirmed 90% of what I said. I didn't say that all 100 judges, public prosecutors, have been getting paid for the last two years. I'm just based on that figure, because it's a number of 70 judges, 30 prosecutors and their deputies, I did one bill orientatively, to see how much the state budget was loaded, unnecessary. Now it doesn't matter if it's 100, whether it's 55 or 10, it's an equal legal and moral problem. The last thing, I also took a two-year deadline from Mr. Ristic's exposure. There are those who should have been resolved before that, there are those who should have been resolved afterwards; I have now heard from Mr Krasic that there are those who have not been working since 1 March 2006.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3203	Thank you. Mr. Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3204	Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, since I have complete documentation of what Mr. Ristic said by heart, I can answer very well. I do not want to use the names of these people who are neither guilty nor obliged to become the subject of today's debate, but, Mr Ristic, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia has delivered the decision of the Great Personal Council, in front of the personal council, sonja Brkic. The personally larger decision was made by 28. Nine. In 2007, 11. Ten. In 2007, Vida Petrovic-Škero sent it to the National Assembly, and 11 were seduced in the National Assembly. Ten. In 2007. For two judges, the Great personal council decided 28. Nine. In 2007, 11. Ten. In 2007, the Supreme Court sent it to the National Assembly, so I could read forever. The president of the National Assembly was Oliver Dulic. A man from the Democratic Party. At the head of the Justice Committee in this meeting, who knows which way, Bosko Ristic. What are we talking about? An emergency procedure? Why isn't this job done? Who bothered you to get this job done? You've put this on the agenda for the first time. The first time you put it in an emergency session. Now you're wondering, now it's someone else's fault, you're expressing some hope, some expectation of a "drunk grandmother" lan. It's a rotten granola. Is that maybe... We know, Mr. Ristic, who you are. Since 2001, you've cheered and dressed, you've worked on the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, so you've cheered and dressed in the judiciary, and the pensioners were the presidents of the courts, and the interns were the presidents of the courts, so someone became the President of the Supreme Court without being the Supreme Court judge, but today we choose him, and after 15 minutes we choose him president. There's been a lot of things in the judiciary. Why? It's done on purpose. In many areas, there is still an old law that... Since 1990, Malten. You are suited to the chaos of the judiciary, and for the privatisation and general pullout that prevailed when you came to power. And now you're doing this tentuously. In this way, he insults the judiciary as a concept. Imagine today being debated, perhaps today this decision will be made on the termination of the judge's office, and a man will not enter court for two years. And that's what you tend to think of, to defile both courts and the judiciary and everything, because that's the only way you can destroy the state, and you're on that path.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3205	Miss Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3206	Madam President, I'm reporting under Article 238. Rules of Procedure. This item of the agenda has been removed, Mr. Ristic, the Monitoring Committee, which monitors all segments in Serbia, and I am now going to focus only on what you receive from the Council of Europe, as executive authority in the country, if you have not done so, you have not adapted our legislation. We're not talking... To absorb it, since there are 21 countries that have recognised the Quasi-Hip state, so-called. Kosovo, but let's talk about other members of the Council of Europe who are our friends, and who have had their representatives, have huge objections to the state of justice in our country. So, to hear also Serbian citizens that these are not only objections to Serbian radicals, which are highly justified, based on facts and personal solutions you have since 2001. I don't need to remind you, Mr. Ristic, that you, not yourself, but your political party, were a promoter of the fact that a man from a failed company could be elected as a judge of the municipal court; he was a V.D. Director, it's been a month or two, you choose him as President of the Court. Since I have an obligation to tell you, as a member of our delegation, I can also give you a photocopy of what the draft of this resolution looks like. That's the whole segment, item 14, which invites you, all the Member States of the Council of Europe, to urgently, inescapably, do next in the judiciary. See what they say – the new Constitution is found to require the adoption of a whole package of new laws on the judiciary. Who's to blame? Serbian Radical Party? We warn you, from the adoption of a new constitution, that you must set up a set of laws in the field of justice to adapt the new constitution. You didn't do it, neither did the previous government, nor did the previous president of the National Assembly, nor did the minister of justice. And, uh, the D.A.'s office... Did you inform them, I believe that they, following this process, or this disaster in the Serbian judiciary, have seen one amazing thing. Now tell me if there is another member state of the Council of Europe, any country in the world that has a man in V.D. status for a republican public prosecutor. at least a year and a half. I guess that shows the seriousness of the state. You cannot choose, as the Constitution and the law require, a republican prosecutor, and they ask you to pass a law on the public prosecutor's office. Which one? This Radovanovic? It would be amazing if that man still stayed. This isn't political pressure right now, this is my appeal. We can't as an opposition, except institutionally, say what we think about these people who are bad solutions, and most colleagues say the same thing. But if he doesn't interfere with his business and if he needs more than once yesterday from Mr Martinovic's pay phone to say it's his job, his obligation to know what he hears from the assembly pay phone, read in the paper, inform him of anyone, exams, as a man who's in that position, what to expect us to do next. That's point 14, so you have 1, 2, 3 and 4 all the way to 6, all of what Serbia needs to do, simply put, is a disaster assessment. If you say, Mr. Ristic, that I need as a Serbian delegation to make an amendment to this point 14... (President: you've exceeded your time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, because it's delayed for January and we're saying the opposite, there's no problem, finding some of the widest state political consensus, but with what arguments to go out there, unfortunately, I have to realize that all of this here is true, which is that the position of the employees in the judiciary and the relationship of the judiciary to the citizens is extremely bad; the assessment here is not enough, two.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3207	Mr. Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are more decisions before the Assembly today when it comes to judicial authorities, which relate both to those who have filed a personal request to be resolved and to those who have met the conditions to be resolved, as well as to those to whom the office of prosecutors or judges should be suspended because of unprofessional and unconscious work in the judiciary. I would not agree that there is no such coordination between parliament, the Supreme Court and the High Council for Justice and the Personal Council. Please, you have a case like this, this is an extreme case: the district public prosecutor's office in Sremska Mitrovica brings a solution and determines that the municipality's public prosecutor in Ruma Josimović Zivko has ceased his post because he has completed his 40 years of service, and on the other hand, the man has fulfilled another condition, i.e. He's over 65 years old. I think this needs to be withdrawn from the procedure; this man should only get a two-base retirement solution, because he has met the conditions for it. When it comes to resolving on a personal request, this is a very delicate question. This is where the Assembly doesn't know what's behind this number of people who've applied to be relieved of their duties. If checks were carried out for each individual, I'm not sure it would have proved to be their wish, and they wanted it because they wanted to deal with another profession, or something else. In practice, there have been cases where people who should criminally respond to an agreement with the highest judicial institutions – submit a request to be resolved so as not to be held liable. Whether or not there is, this remains as a dark figure among these 58 judicial officials. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the resolution of the three judges, and in particular when it comes to the resolution of the Judge of the Municipal Court on the proposal of decision 01 118-2170/08, and the third section, under number 2, is fundamentally against this judge, that he did not make and write judgments in good time. This is an extreme case, so the question is raised which are the reasons why the competent authorities who propose the resolution of this judge; whether it is only this judge who does not respect the law and after the conclusion of the debate or the search does not appear within the legal time limit of the verdict. So I doubt this is the only case in Serbia that the judge has not written the verdict in good time. At least 30 - 40% of judges, if this criterion is respected, should be in front of the Assembly to discuss their fate, i.e. Is there any way I can continue to serve as a judicial officer? Between 30% and 40%, you can resolve it on this basis. There are judges who are so up-to-date that they make timely judgments, but most of those who are not able, for any reason, sometimes justified, sometimes unwarranted, to make judgments and decisions with delay. My suggestion is to withdraw this proposal. I ask the question, according to the Rules of Procedure, to the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice, the Personal Council and the High Council of Justice, and I demand that they deliver a statistical report to the Assembly for the last 10 years, in which it is to be seen, because MPs here decide on the fate of the people, whose existence may depend on whether decisions are being written in time or not, to see how many such judges do not pass, not within eight days or within eight days, as the law provides, but to see how many decisions there are in Serbia those who make decisions with delay. Why is justice applied selectively here? Why would Mirjana Lazarevic, the judge of the Municipal Court, mentioned by his previous DS counterpart, talk about what the problems were with the judge, why be an extreme case and why break a spear on it? You have 30% in Serbia. Give me a report, so in general, in the package, we can talk about which judges don't write judgments in good time and why. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the expertise, efficiency and consistency of the work of our courts, a detailed analysis needs to be carried out. Which way? It is necessary to carry out an analysis of when the President of the Court, since which judge, since the prosecutor, since the deputy prosecutor came to the post, was shown statistics on when he received a case, criminal, litigation and non-parony, when he scheduled the first hearing or the main search, when a decision was taken in a litigation, non-paris and criminal proceedings, also in the investigation, and when he wrote the verdict. That's the previous question. The next question, from these judgments and decisions by the judges, is to be seen which judges are confirmed by the second-degree court, and which judges are suspended, by which judges are recasted. Then, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can measure and with full authority and capacity to decide and to know what the situation in Serbia is and who in Serbia can be the judge, who can't be the judge. Mrs Radeta told you previously that we had cases like this in practice: a man graduated from law school and was employed at the Str, shop, as an adviser; suddenly he was appointed as a judge, and then he was appointed to the same session of the Assembly as the President of the Court. Where can this happen? Can this happen in a country with a developed legal system? Can that happen in England? Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot happen in England. Here's why: England becomes a judge at the age of 52. In the House of the Upper Lords, as the highest legal instance, judges are up to 78 years old. So whoever wants to be a judge has to bake a trade, and that trade has to be studied until the 52nd year; it is being prepared, supported and equipped, but therefore ends and walks from institution to institution, from office to council, to second largest, criminal, litigious or outsider. There may be a judge with us if he's graduated from a college that's not even a law school, or if he's graduated from college who knows where, whose diploma is still under question. The Presidents of the Court are the most responsible for the work of the judges. Such cases would not have been if the President of the Court had conducted statistics on the case, the distribution of cases and the appointment of discussions in criminal and criminal main investigations; secondly, he should control and, according to his rules of procedure, monitor when a search or debate was held, when it was concluded; a statistical report, within which time the judge did not make the verdict. At that time, the judge is called, he is distracted, and he warns that he can suffer the consequences unless he makes a decision in time. Why do we have this state of justice? Ladies and gentlemen, we have this situation in the judiciary because we do not have, unlike other countries with a developed legal system, a law on disciplinary responsibility for the holders of judicial functions. If we had a law on disciplinary responsibility, we wouldn't have come into this situation, nor would those people who need to be left without bread today, because the competent ones, supposed to be vertical, would be obliged to follow and sanction those who don't respect the law. When it comes to judges and the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen, the notion of judicial independence, just to remind ourselves, a few sentences: Judges are independent if they are not obliged to do their duties but to respect the law and follow their own conscience. In order for the judge to be truly independent, his personal independence must be fully achieved. Under that concept, such legal regulation of the court position is meant, therefore, setting up, choosing, progress in service, immunity, disciplinary responsibility, dismissal, transfer, which leads to a minimum possibility of members of the executive authority (I stress, executive authorities) to influence their behaviour through decision-making in this, for the judge of existential matters. Therefore, the duration of the judicial service is so ensured that neither individual judges nor the judiciary in general should be under the control of the executive authority, i.e. Governments and her organs. As historical experience shows, without the independence of the legal profession, and especially the judge, tyranny will have a free path to the poisoning of justice, so that fair trial will remain only an empty word on paper, which is also the shortest answer why the independence of judges is not only a matter of members of that profession. In terms of Western democracies, such as judicial independence, judicial independence is a concept of true character. They remove doubts about the existence of a real, functional democracy that would endanger the right. Ladies and gentlemen, the independent judiciary will be able, as a protector of individual rights and freedom, to perform its duties, but at the same time it is a very vulnerable institution. Ladies and gentlemen, how did the international regulation address the question of the independence of the judge's position? As the 1960s had increased concerns about the situation blamed in criminal proceedings, and in the 1970s for the position of damaged, the victims of the crime, the 1980s could be called a time of global interest in achieving the independence of judges and in general justice. This global interest is defined through numerous international documents. I would say that in 1981, the Syracuse draft principle of judicial independence, then the Tokyo principle of judicial independence and the Code of International Association of Bar Associations on Minimum Standards of Judicial Independence, and the Universal Declaration of Justice was adopted in 1983. Is our judiciary such a degree and a level, is it so consistent with parallel law, in relation to judicial reform in general, with countries such as Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, England, as countries of continental law? We can't even get close when it comes to Anglo-Saxon law and regulation of justice relations and reforms. So, to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, a judicial office and a judicial duty is a great privilege and a great honor to be given to judges. I have to tell you, the judge is the biggest government in the country. Why? It's the court that can sentence today up to 40 years in prison. Therefore, judicial reform must be carried out. What poisons the judiciary is politics. The judiciary was thrown into the political arena. We haven't experienced a depolitanization of the judiciary. If Mirjana Lazarevic were a member of the Democratic Party, G17 or any other party in power, I guarantee she would not be the only one in Serbia on the agenda to be resolved. To see if Mirjana Lazarevic is really like that -- if she wasn't expert, if she wasn't moral, that she was corrupt... and I say it's moral, I say it's not corrupt, but in one case in Serbia it doesn't need to break a spear and it shouldn't be an extreme case. If we want to raise the level of efficiency of the court, to make decisions on time, ladies and gentlemen, let's take statistics, see which judge works and when he concludes the debates and when he makes decisions. I repeat, the quality of the judge can be checked if he looks at how many decisions his second-degree court has confirmed, how many decisions he has abolished in his working life and how much he has changed. If he cancels his decisions in 80% of the cases or changes it to 70% of the time, surely that man must understand himself and someone from the competent authorities who decides on his choice and re-election has to tell him - move, you're not up for the job. We must, first of all, protect our honors and honorary prosecutors from politics and politicians. If we don't, we haven't done anything. Democracy has reportedly come to the ground. That democracy has nothing to do with it. Don't talk about how the judiciary has been moving since 1945; look at the laws passed, look at the position of the judiciary, how the judges were elected. The continuity of judges and judicial holders must be ensured, as well as the material position of good judges and good prosecutors, most of them, so citizens will have both legal, political, and economic, and social capacity and will have confidence in state authorities and state. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must implement the reform and adequate laws must be passed when it comes to the judiciary as a pillar in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3209	Thank you. I ask Mr. Jojic, and the question concerns Mr. Mikovic, do you decidently want to challenge the motion to resolve Judge Mirjana Lazarevic? Yeah. So that in the voting day, we can formulate. Mr. Jojic, I'll give you my word, are you proposing to challenge Judge Mirjana Lazarevic's resolution? (Petar Jojic: Yes, because it is a unique case. Thank you. You haven't decidently pleaded, so I'm asking to know. Mr. Ristic, what about D.A. Joksimovic? No, I don't. Okay. Here's a word for Mrs Biljana Hasanovic - Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3210	Dear Presidents, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for the agenda item under way, and more specifically on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the judge's duty due to the unconscious conduct of the same. I must, first of all, say that during the pre-election campaigns in the past and in this mandate, I have advocated the realization of all the objectives of the programme of the list that I was on and the Democratic Party that I belong to, which is for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. As a lawyer by profession, I have particularly advocated and advocated judicial reform in the sense that our judicial system becomes modern, efficient, work-independent and consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I hope we will soon begin to implement the reform of the judicial system by passing appropriate laws. For this very reason, I challenge the motion to resolve Milorad Milin, Judge of the Municipal Court in Vrsac. The material that we received from the Justice Committee after the session was held states that the reason for the resolution of this judge is ineffective in the work. There's no other reason. A number of cases solved in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, and this data show that he dealt with more cases almost every year than he received. In addition, a number of cases reportedly slowed down and resolved. I am responsible for saying that this explanation of the motion for a decision on the resolution is colored in personal relations and unobstructed and that Milorad Milin, Judge of the Municipal Court in Vrsac, does not have the worst results in relation to other judges in this municipal court and in relation to judges in all other municipal courts. In order to raise my peace of mind before you and challenge the motion to resolve Judge Milorad Milin, I have checked and collected information from the Municipal Court in Vrsac. Almost all of the items listed as items in which he has acted slowly have been resolved, mostly by measurement decisions. As for the results of work in 2006, 2007 and the first half of 2008, they are satisfactory, with a rate of compliance of over 100% and 120%. I won't bother you with the data for all these years. I'm just going to say that for the first six months of this year, he's had a total of 315 items, which have been transferred, which are newly received, that he's solved 139 and that he's met the standard of 108.53%.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3211	Thank you. The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, you who today more than ever cry out for freedom, justice, on the agenda is a very important topic, and it is also a constitutional category. According to our current Constitution, the courts are dedicated 14 members, the prosecution and the Constitutional Court, even ten more, or 34 out of 206, as many as this Constitution has. Although, the authorised representative on this agenda, Mr. Bosko Ristic, had just scared me because he mentioned a new constitution. I don't know if it's in agreement with Momcilo Grubac, who also mentioned the need to adopt a new constitution because of parliamentary mandates, as he said, and also because of the Serbian state's obligations towards the European Union. And you see what they're referring to, the respected citizens of Serbia -- precisely your free will that you express in the elections. We're talking today about dispensing judicial and prosecutorial officials for four reasons. My intention is not to talk about individual cases, but I must point out the need for the SRS to continue for many years, especially since 2000, when DOS came to power to carry out a negative selection in the authorities of the judiciary and the prosecution. Already, one of my colleagues said that in 2001 we were elected judges of municipal, county, and sometimes the Supreme Court, graduate lawyers who had no experience in justice, but on the same day they were appointed as judges of the municipal court, and then became presidents of these courts. When it comes to where I come from, and the environment, the judiciary has problems of another kind. The municipality court has been working with only the president of the court and another judge for several years. I've pointed at that multiple times from this pay phone. Instead of going to court-filled, we're thinking about terminating that court. In the municipality of Krupanj there are inhabited places that are far from the municipality seat and more than 30 km away, there is no bus traffic between these places and the seat of the municipality, i.e. the seat of the municipal court. I do not point out here this objection for the sake of two judges, although I respect them, but much more because of citizens who need to exercise their rights. The same situation is also the situation in Ljubljana, which is 75 km away from Loznica, through which the highway passes, and the settlements are over 40 km away. There is a possibility that in the organisation of the judiciary the municipal court, which is unacceptable. Let's start from the assumption that there is an accident on the magistrate's road; until a judge from Loznica arrives to intervene most of the day will be closed down by a traffic station, connecting the Republic of Serbia with Republika Srpska, which would be very dangerous. When Serbian Radical Party MPs speak today, one of the vice-presidents warns them after three minutes that 10 seconds has passed, so with three minutes and 30 seconds, he tells the MP a certain reminder, and you gentlemen applaud for it, you are proud of it. Let's see what the executive government's obligations have been, which has been a major influence on the free branch of government in Serbia since 2000, which is the court. Article 5(2) The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "In the course of the second session following the election of the Government, the National Assembly will comply with the Constitution of laws relating to the application of the provisions of the Constitution to the courts and the public prosecutors, and this: laws governing the organisation and jurisdiction of the courts, the election and termination of the office of the president of the courts and judges, the High Council of the judiciary, organisations and the jurisdiction of the public prosecutors, the selection and termination of the office of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors and state chief prosecutors." This, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was to be brought in in the previous assembly. You are looking for any reason to place other stories and topics, and you are not putting on the agenda what is of vital interest -- how to implement judicial reform, which I repeat once again, Serbian citizens are crying out, because many are obliged to seek their freedom, to seek justice, and some are obliged to seek freedom. This is very pronounced in Serbia today. For several days, SRS MPs have had a moral and any other need to talk about it, as the freedom of the president of the SRS is at stake, and none of the official institutions in Serbia speak on the issue. Here's a good opportunity to show how well we are as a state-organized democratic society. Judging by how the current government reacts, we will not be governed by a democratic society for much longer. That is what we can hope for when the SRS, on a proposal from the citizens of Serbia, assumes responsibility; then for us each citizen will be exactly the same, and for everyone's rights and freedom we will have to advocate. The best chance to show the judges how professional they are and how moral they are, and there must be plenty of... That is, you see one situation, when the Democratic Party favors someone and when it favours them in 2001 or later, which is irrelevant when, from the agricultural cooperative, it brought and placed the president of the court, so of course he is responsible for who brought him and who contributed most to his being in that place. Does he care about justice and justice, will he be judged under the Constitution and the law? He won't. He'll have to behave differently. We have the largest number of security judges and prosecutors, of course, but this time Serbia needs to see how professional our judges are and how moral they are, when they make decisions by county courts, regarding the mandates of the SRS. A number of Serbia's district courts have passed the exam, some have disobeyed it, but I hope that their decisions will correct you very quickly. What do prosecutors do to us at the moment when a certain group of citizens enter this room, and we know that the prosecution is acting on an ex-officio, so on official duty, and when we have one problem, which is an illegal kidnapping of the term of office, i.e. a violation of the electoral will of the citizens? Here's a good opportunity for the D.A. to react and to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3213	There's a word Mr. Igor Becic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3214	Dear citizens, distinguished colleagues, I wanted to advertise members of 225 and 226, where it is said that the MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the president of the National Assembly, from the chairman of the National Assembly Committee, from ministers and officials of other republican authorities. I'd like to ask the Minister of Justice how long he'll allow scandalous judgments in trade courts. So we're just talking about there's a larger number of judges professionally doing their job, and there's a number of judges who use their office to make judgments, like the verdict that was made to Carnex, about their dispute with one company, where we see a scandalous verdict. Now I'll tell you what's going on. So, when the ruling oligarchy passed the Law on the privatisation of a suspected company, "with one purse and a bow", they began to buy and privatise Serbia. By buying a factory they fire a large number of workers from the company, they sign harmful contracts, so at the moment when serious companies are coming to invest in Serbia... For example, a 60m-euro investment was expected in Carnex and the start of construction of a new factory, but at one point the investment is stopped because it comes from the Trade Court to 600m dinars. The company wants one harmful contract concluded by the former owner to break up. Then one Court of Commerce judge at the first hearing, without the introduction of judicial skills to see if there was room for compensation for the termination of the contract, makes a verdict of 600 million dinars, as if it were six million dinars, which stops the investment. No serious investor will invest in Serbia, will invest in a new factory if a verdict is made at the first hearing without the involvement of judicial experts. The motion is passed, so we have a situation for a judge, who, with the help of the former president of the court, to come to the judge, to bring one after another a scandalous verdict. It's Judge Sava Jovanovic. It's a disgrace for the entire New Sad Trade Court. And we allow, as representatives of the legislative body, and the minister of justice allows such judgments to be passed. There's even organized crime, because it's huge money. Also, at this point in The Hague, we have the twilight of international law, the twilight of democracy; we can say that there is one joint criminal enterprise that wants our president, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, to be killed in The Hague. Surely we must respect the laws of this country; we must allow democracy and the law to enter this assembly, that the president respects the electoral will of citizens, return the mandates of the SRS, and we must insist on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3215	The word is Mr. Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with a very educational folk Serbian proverb that says: "Justice without power is impotence, and power without justice is tyranny. "I will later return to the educational consequences and the importance of this beautiful Serbian proverb. When we talk about the obligation of the judicial authorities to coordinate their business, their organisation and system, the work cycle, we must refer to Article 15. A constitutional law which obliges all state authorities to comply with the provisions of the Constitution. Since over a hundred laws apply to the area of justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Government were obliged to deliver to the Assembly all those laws that had to be introduced in the meantime. Unfortunately, we in the procedure have only a few laws. I'm afraid we won't comply with the constitutional law, Article 15, which obliges us to coordinate all this by the end of the year, just because the Ministry of Justice and the Government aren't doing their job. We have a provision for Article 5. A constitutional law that also obliges us to certain actions that we have not fulfilled. In addition, we must mention the Government's Action Plan on harmonising the legal rules of the Republic of Serbia with the legal regulations of the European Union. The government adopted the action plan in 2004 and, according to the provisions of this action plan, all state authorities were committed to taking action to bring legal projects and adoption into line with the Assembly. Sadly, so far no law in this area has been adopted in this congregation. It's been four years. The commitments provided for in the Action Plan have not been made. Does the European Union want such a country in its ranks? He doesn't want to be safe. We are not serious about the European Union, and we are not serious about ourselves. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia working in the area of justice also had constitutional obligations, which they failed to fulfil, also had obligations towards the European Union. We swear, especially you in the ruling structure swear to do everything, and do nothing, to agree and harmonise all that is necessary in order to join the European Union as an equal member. We did not agree on a judicial system, no area of organisation, no area of jurisdiction of the courts, no area of security of financial resources. We didn't provide technical equipment. We didn't provide human resources, nor did we secure the independence of the judiciary. We need to specifically address the issue of judicial independence. We all swear on the independence of the judiciary, including judges and all in the entire system of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, we didn't make it possible. On the other hand, we're doing everything we can to disrupt the independence of the judiciary. In particular, it is important to stress that it is the current authority, supported by certain structures that correspond to such a situation. In illegal actions are those who commit crimes, criminal acts, and through current authorities they put pressure on judicial authorities and then we lose the most important element, which is the independence of the judiciary. We have seen here that the Ministry of Justice delivered requests to discharge the judicial authorities as early as 2006. For two and a half years, these items have been in the process in this congregation. It's very inconclusive by the current government, so that she doesn't put it into debate here in the Assembly, to resolve all those that we need to resolve by law. Now we have to mention the other side, which is that all those who are not resolved in time get personal incomes, get profits. We've heard some calculations here. I tried it quickly... I will start with the average salary of judges and other legal holders being about hundreds of thousands, plus taxes and contributions, plus material and immaterial allowances. It comes in total at about 250,000 a month, times 12 months, that's about three million, so times a hundred, to say that not everyone was getting the profits, so at least half of them, that's about one hundred and fifty million, two million euros. Here's how we threw two million euros in grants, instead of using those two million euros for technical equipment, system computing in the judiciary, etc., to help judges. You see, because of the lack of seriousness of the current government, we are in a position not to have that function of justice that we would normally have to have. On the other hand, we have to say that the social mile in which the judges work is very unfavourable. We are all inclined to interpret both politically and socially, but also legally individual decisions of the judicial authorities. There's no man who doesn't. It is particularly dangerous when it is the current authority, when it announces certain judgments. It's a direct influence on the independence of the judiciary. You know that very well. I will now mention your president, I mean the president of the Democratic Party and the President of the Republic, who recently said on the main board of your party that he would not protect individuals who committed certain acts. What does that mean? That it was already done, that someone else did, that it was practically done. Just what Mr. Krasic says, he's lost it. The negative practice, which we all know is that in this area, in the area of justice, we have direct interventions by the highest state bodies that affect judicial functions. Now I'm going back to that Serbian proverb -- power without justice is tyranny. If we don't have an independent judiciary, if we don't have all the judges of the Constitutional Court elected, and we don't have five, if we don't have the fulfillment of those provisions relating to the harmonisation of the Constitution, if we don't have procedures in order to comply with our legal system with EU legislation, then we live in tyranny.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3217	The word is Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, then Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3218	Dear fellow Members of the People, when I received this material as a People's MP, I wondered first of all, and tried to find an answer to that question, why judges flee from the judiciary. I think it's a special social, sociological phenomenon, or a consequence of the criminalization of society, which should be seriously considered. Someone should give us a full report on the situation in our judiciary. But I'm looking at it, so it's like a social phenomenon, because everybody used to flock to the judiciary, first of all because it meant a certain status in society. Lawyers generally had a desire to do judicial work, to hire in courts, to make progress. There was some order, that the steps up the stairs, from municipal courts, as referencers, would advance until the first appointment, with a desire to get to the district court at least, and some could never dream of the Supreme Court. Then there were some changes in 2000 when some of the people from the agricultural cooperatives came here with a proposal to be appointed as the judge of the municipal court and on the same day appointed to the president of the same court. It seems to me that some may have realized that they are not for these functions, or that they are no longer moral-politically similar, so from there we have these three reasons why they cease to function: some, as you say, of unconscious work; some at their own request – they are most interesting to me because I can't get into such a thing, I really don't know what the reasons are, but given that the courts, as well as the whole of society, and how the politicists believe that many of these pressures of daily politics and politicians can endure, so they run from the judiciary – and of course, to some because of the completion of the working century. A few examples have attracted my attention here. For example, an example of Judge Cvetkovic who works at the Supreme Court, and a year and a half ago he gained the right to retire. It's something that a man is probably not guilty of, because we here have requests to stop the judicial or public prosecutorial functions that were delivered to the National Assembly in 2007 and have simply not come to the agenda. One of the judges, Dragan Vladimir, Judge of the Sombor Municipal Court, informed us on January 19th 2007, that he was asking to suspend his judicial duties on the day (and request a certain day) on February 18th 2007, since, as he says, on February 19th and that same year, he should start working in a new workplace, outside the judiciary. He probably started working on that new job, and what about his status in that court, nobody knows that alive. I think we've brought them into an unexplainable situation as far as their working-law status is concerned. Here some names and some requirements for the termination of the court's office state the reason is that, because of the unconscious and unprofessional performance of the duties, it is necessary to resolve the public prosecutors and judges, and the reason for the unwitting and unprofessional performance of the duties is seen in the failure to establish the proper and timely work of the court and to prevent proceedings harmful to independence or the reputation of the court. You see, we're solving them now because they've put the court in a position to work untimely, and we're the ones who do the same thing here. So also previous President Oliver Dulic, who had all this on the table, did not put it on the agenda, so here is the current president and we, as MPs, are untimely considering this item of the agenda and bringing people into a truly controversial situation. If we can replace them because they have brought their untimely work or irregular work to court to work by making certain failures real and that it is harmful by the work of the court, what is the consequences of what we are not doing in a way that we should do? Who's gonna call us? We're waiting for the election to eventually be called by the voters. Is that enough? All day today, when this point was on the agenda, the parliamentary majority, apparently with one of the vice presidents from the parliamentary majority, who led the session, simply as if it didn't want this point to be on the agenda today. What about Oliver Dulic? There goes a man, doesn't care, this cost him two years on the table and no one. Some in 2005 because of age, i.e. because of the completion of the working century, the judge’s office expired, and here it is today that it is being established. Not today either, for you will not vote today, but perhaps in seven or ten days. What about these people and where are they? Are they still on trial or are they out of court and not getting a pension? Did anyone ever wonder what happened to them and did the chairman of the Justice Committee have any intention of telling us? Not because of us, it has first of all an obligation to this and some other judges who may be in a similar situation and also to the public. It is clear to all of us that the situation in the judiciary is very bad, as well as in society; they only share the fate of all other areas of social life. But this crisis can only be overcome if – these three branches of government are equal, but the legislative authority is still slightly stronger than everyone else – the legislative authority is a little more serious and first settle relations and make order in parliament and in this legislative act. Then we can expect them, and they can expect us to do much more effectively, better, and more professionally.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3219	The word has Mr. Krasic, eight minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3220	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I would ask you, because if Bosko Ristic does so, it will be nothing, to ask the question and ask the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia if there is a judge who met the conditions for retirement six months, seven months, two years and still works as a judge. When you get an answer to this question, then you will know how sincere Mr. Ristic was about this speaker. Don't be surprised if you get an answer that there's a judge who meets, or has long met, pension conditions, and that he's still in the Supreme Court, that a man is coming to work. Don't be surprised if the President of the Supreme Court tells you that he may be a member of a very important council and that it would be very difficult for him to move. Now let's get to the bottom of this. The first question to be answered today is whether we can make these decisions if it is borne in mind that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been regulated, literally speaking, all of which ceases to be judges and public prosecutors. And, can anyone be called to the Constitutional Law, and there we have already exceeded all possible deadlines in Article 5. The constitutional law, so what it says in article six, has also lost its significance. Because if you had what it says in article 6. The constitutional law had this importance that the Democratic Party attaches to that member, then we could, in practice, continue to be in a position not to lay down regulations, or laws governing both the status of judges and the organisation of courts, and that always choice and resolution should be made on the basis of historical laws which are in force on a case-by-case basis because of Article 6. Constitutional law. Probably in these categories of prosecutors and judges who cease to function on a personal request, or because they have met the conditions in terms of working age or if they have achieved some right, pension or man to do some other job, there will be no problem because there will be no damage to their rights. I am absolutely certain that in this third category, where the resolution is due to intricacies, inconspicuousness in the work, this assembly is on its way to do something illegal, because the Constitution states exactly which body decides to terminate its duties and to resolve the resolutions. That organ is not the National Assembly. The Democratic Party has destroyed everything since it took the area of justice, and it began in 2001; and Zivkovic, Bosko Ristic... I don't want to go any further. At one point, Leposava Karamarkovic replied, and then Bosko removed from office overnight; so they placed Sonja Brkic, a woman accidentally fell into the Supreme Court, so when Vida Petrovic-Škero was supposed to come, he and Petrovic challenged everything and everything in the Committee of Justice, so it was really weird whether or not she had finished law school at all. Now you don't mind Bosca Ristic. You remember, a year ago, a lady, a Supreme Court judge, informed the public that someone forged her signature on a court ruling. I think it's Mrs. Dracun. Remember that a few months ago, judge of the Council of War Crimes was silently and elegantly removed from the council, according to Natasa Kandic. It seems to me that Gordana Bozilovic, the judge. Well, of course, they brought in what is appropriate, which can be controlled by US Embassy advisors on legal issues to solve and decide. The mandates of the Special Prosecutor for War Crimes, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office not to speak, that's all I know. Of course, it's not the Serbian Radical Party, it's the Democratic Party, it's Boris Tadic's fault. You can vote with your hands and feet here, but you won't change the impression and the facts. It's your fault. A whole set of laws in the area of justice needs to be passed. There's no suggestion. Of the 25 regulations, the ministry boasts that seven were sent to the congregation procedure. Remember when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, it is by Article 5. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia's second regular session was the last time those laws had to be passed. But that's why he was in the way of the National Security Council Act, which is why it was the Constitutional Court Act, so the first Constitutional Court came again, in one assembly that corresponds to those who dictate what decisions should be made. They answer for themselves, you don't need recognition here. It's all clear. So, if in 2008 or at the end of 2008, we're interpreting everything that's been done, then I have to tell you that the condition of Article 161 is not fulfilled. It's an emergency code of procedure. We don't need an emergency procedure for these decisions, because Article 48. The Rules of Procedure shall lay down the procedure as prescribed by that procedure and by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the inclusion in the agenda. The proposal for this decision could be included in the agenda of each session, regardless of the session, but no, they need to show the public that it is urgent, as it is important, to pump up the situation in order not to hear what the background of all this is. I have to draw attention to the fact that some judges and some prosecutors were chosen a few years ago, and I noticed in these motions a decision to correct that mistake. Of course, in order not to call me why I'm talking and identifying what decisions these are, which are judges and who are prosecutors, I'll skip it. It's probably clear to everyone what the Democratic Party's operation is -- they're nagging, complaining, and where it doesn't hurt them, but it's got to look like they're suffering, how they're worried, how at all costs they want to respect the Constitution and the law, and at every step and the Constitution and the law are trampling. About how far the Constitution and the law have trampled these two days, the public has had the opportunity to hear the details. Don't just let Mr. Ristic interpret the Constitution and the law, it's a disaster for the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3221	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Chikiriz has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3222	Ladies and gentlemen, since my predecessors have said a lot about the point that is current, I would refer only to the case of Judge Mirjana Lazarevic of Pancheva. I don't think we should involve politics in all of this, but I think there are absolutely reasonable objections about the situation in the judiciary. The Serbian Renewal Movement, as well as most Serbian citizens, is not fully satisfied with the situation in our judiciary. I'm going back to a specific case. If Judge Mirjana Lazarevic was probably a good judge for 30 years, if she had passed all the re-election processes, if she had received grades from the competent institutions as well as who had nothing to object to and had not made decisions within the prescribed deadlines, I was impressed, based on the discussions of colleagues I heard, that it was justified reasons. When interpreting the situation in our judiciary, the SCI will not deal with individual cases. We want what every citizen of Serbia wants, which is to restore citizens' confidence in the judicial system, that we never have cases like we had in the 1990s when political parties and the damaged were not protected from the competent state institutions, primarily from the competent prosecutors, when they waited ten years to get satisfaction and were forced to exercise their rights in the processes that the state had to initiate. That's why I'd say what many people said before me. It is true that the judicial reform process is under way. It is true that the situation in the judiciary is unsatisfactory. It is true that we need to do everything, above all, to create the conditions that exist in the EU countries for the work of judges and holders of judicial functions, to provide them with all material and technical means, and then to ensure that our requirements in relation to the holders of judicial functions are such as requirements in EU countries, to fully respect and set deadlines, and of course respect for constitutionality and legality in their work is understood. Therefore, the SPO will insist that a set of reform laws that are necessary not only for harmonising the rules with the EU, but for the needs of our citizens, be brought forward as soon as possible, to create a material and technical basis for good and quality work of courts, and then to call on judges to be responsible for the unconscious work and non-compliance of constitutionality and legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-30-0.u3223	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Administrative Committee, on the appointment of the Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the MP's group "For European Serbia" – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" – 22 minutes and 48 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group – six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have not expressed any interest in participating in the debate. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the motion for a decision to appoint the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one has expressed their desire to participate in the debate, before I conclude the search of the motion for a decision, I ask one more time, does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. Since we have conducted a unique search, or no participation, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision to appoint the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 7 October 2008, starting at 10.00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the Fifth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 170 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I have just informed you of the mandate of MP Miroslav Marinkovic. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly, in order to allow his participation in the work. You have been presented with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the mandate to the MP. Also, you were presented with the Report of the Administrative Committee, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament finds confirmation of the mandate to the MP. On the basis of the Report of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Miroslav Marinkovic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I invite him to come in and participate in the work. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – I would like to remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, decides on the election, or resolution of members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. We're moving on to a decision. Please, let's work on the agenda. I'll be forced to give you a warning. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let us work. I will be forced to give appropriate measures, for the second time I remind you. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of office of a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. For 128, he did not vote one out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend its post as a member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council. We move to a decision on the amendment on the proposal for a decision on the election of members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. On point 1. The amendment was tabled by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The amendment reads: Item 1 is also amended as follows: "- Prof. Dr. Milojko Arsic, for a period of five years; - Prof. Zorica Mladenovic, for a period of four years". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 129, three of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Since we have completed our decision on the amendment, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision in general. I am voting on a motion for a decision on the election of members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, in general. For 129 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. For 129, one did not vote, out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank Council. Having spoken out on all the motions for decisions, I ask if you agree that the proposal for a decision to elect members of the National Bank of Serbia Council and a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as a legally-technically united act - a decision to elect members of the National Bank of Serbia Council? I'm putting the motion to a vote. For 129, one did not vote, out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Allow me to congratulate Professor Milojko Arsic, Prof. Dr. Zorica Mladenovic and Professor Dr. Nenadu Vunjak in his name for his election as members of the National Bank of Serbia. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Deputy Protector of the City since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105(2), paragraph 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 6(4) The Law on the Protector of Citizens, Deputy Protectors of Citizens, elects most of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the election of Deputy Protectors of Citizens, 02 No 3442/07 since 19 October 2007, with the updated Proposal for a Decision since 3 December 2007. For 168, of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the election of Deputy Citizens' Protectors, with an updated proposal for a decision, by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me just remind you that Dr Goran Bašić, Dr Zorica Mrsevic and Tamara Luksic-Orlandic, as well as Milos Jankovic, were elected as Deputy Citizens' Protectors. Let me congratulate them on their choices and wish them success in their work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE DECISION on the termination of the duties of the legal holders since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motions for judgments of point three, therefore, on the termination of the duties of the holders of judicial functions, pursuant to Article 105(2) point 12. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides to suspend the functions of the president of the courts and public prosecutors by a majority vote of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Court, number 118-2171/08. For 138, two out of 140 MPs didn't vote. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Court, number 118-2171/08. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2173/08. For 140 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2173/08. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to relieve the President of the Court, number 118-2172/08. For 139, one of the 140 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, adopted a motion for a decision to relieve the President of the court, No 118-2172/08. We move to a decision on the contested proposals set out in the motion for a decision on the discharge of the court's office, No 118-2170/08. Since the MPs have disputed a number of proposals in the motion for a decision on the discharge of the judge's duty, No 118-2170/08, I remind you that the National Assembly, under Article 180(3). Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with Article 179(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, on each disputed motion for a resolution, shall be decided individually by the judge and on a motion for the resolution of judges who are not disputed to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to resolve the judicial duties of Vlasimir Dimic, Judge and President of the Municipal Court in Kosovo Kamenica, who was challenged by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Three votes voted, one abstentioned, was not 133, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not relieved the judicial duties of Vlasimir Dimic. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to resolve the judicial duties of Mirjana Lazarevic, the judge of the Municipal Court in Pančev, who was challenged by MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Petar Jojic. It did not vote 137 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not resolved the judicial duties of Mirjana Lazarevic. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee to relieve Milorad Milin, Judge of the Municipal Court in Vrsac, who was challenged by MP Biljana Hasanovic-Korac. It did not vote 138, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not relieved Milorad Milin's judicial duties. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of the court's duty, No 118-2170/08, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 129, there were no 11 votes, out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the discharge of the judge's office, No 118-2170/08, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the prosecutor's office, number 118-2175/08. For 128, it did not vote 12 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the public prosecutor's office, number 118-2175/08. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic, number 118-2174/08. For 128, it did not vote 12 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a motion for a decision on the resolution of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic of Public Prosecutor, No 118-2174/08. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to dismiss the public prosecutor, number 118-2176/08. Nine out of 138 MPs voted for 129. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs adopted a motion for a decision on the resolution of the public prosecutor, number 118-2176/08. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the National Assembly has carried out a search for a decision on the appointment of the Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the appointment of the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 138, of the 138 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to appoint a deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate Bojana Pudar on his appointment as deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on your behalf. We move to a decision on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Dragan Šormaz, at a session on 25 September 2008, at 11 o'clock and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 119, 2nd and 121. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 27, against 118, 20 of the 165 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that those members of the Rules of Procedure were not injured. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic, at a session on 26 September 2008, at 11 o'clock and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 18, against 123, 24 of the 165 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Sladjan Mijaljević, at a session on 26 September 2008, at 12.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 9, against 122, they did not vote 33, out of 164 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Momir Markovic, at a session on 30 September 2008, at 13.25 p.m., indicated that the chairman, Gordana Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly, injured Article 100(1), Article 104 of Article 1 and Article 1(1). 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 8, against 128, it did not vote 28 out of 164 MPs. The National Assembly decided that those members of the Rules of Procedure were not injured. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on 30 September 2008, at 13:45, indicated that the chairman, Gordana Comic, vice president of the National Assembly, injured Article 222. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 127, it did not vote 37, out of 164 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 30 September 2008, at 13,50 hours, indicated that the chairman, Gordana Comic, vice president of the National Assembly, injured member 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 127, it did not vote 37, out of 164 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 30 September 2008, at 13.55 p.m., indicated that the chairman, Gordana Comic, vice president of the National Assembly, injured members of 100, 104 and 31. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 126, 39 of the 165 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that those members of the Rules of Procedure were not injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 30 September 2008, at 15.20 p.m., indicated that the chairman, Gordana Comic, vice-president of the National Assembly, injured Article 100(4). Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 128, it did not vote 37, out of 165 MPs. The National Assembly decided that it was not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Momir Markovic, at a session on September 30th 2008, at 15.25pm, indicated that the chairman, Gordana Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly, injured member 106. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 126, 37 of the 163 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all the points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. I'd like the heads of Parliament to come to my meeting at 1200 hours. At 1:00 p.m., the session was scheduled to begin at 11.00 p.m. The session is over 11.4 hours. )
