ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11726	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I am really impressed by your concern that this debate on amendments to the draft budget law is taking place in the best order possible, but believe me, I have the same goal as you. Don't worry about anything. So we will really try to explain these amendments as best as possible. I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of Section 2, function 110, economic classification 422 - travel expenses of the President of the Republic, and I have proposed that the cost of travel by the President of the Republic for 2009 be reduced from 43 million to 20 million, but therefore to increase subsidies to public non-financial enterprises from 17 billion 285 million to 17 billion 308 million, and in column eight to increase from 17 billion 885 million to 17 billion 908 million. The government has not accepted this amendment for the following reasons -- "Amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the travel expenses under the Republic President's division have been proposed in accordance with the competences and needs of this budget user." Mrs Dragutinović, I think this explanation is extremely casual and that you wrote it for the sake of order, that something should be written about why the amendment is not accepted. It is clear to me that the head of state, or President of the Republic, must have the financial resources for travel costs in the country, especially abroad, but you have not convinced me why there must be exactly 43 million. It is difficult to determine on the basis of which criteria you have come to the fact that, for the travel expenses of the President of the Republic, only 43 million should be allocated. When you provide for certain appropriations for certain budget beneficiaries, and also for the President of the Republic, then you must take care of what the results of the budget user's work have been, what the budget user has well brought to the state of Serbia and its citizens, I guess this is the basic criterion based on which you define and the corresponding budget amounts for the next financial year. I guess that's how it should be. If we try to analyze the results of the work of the current president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, then we do not come to very happy conclusions. Boris Tadic became president of the Republic in June, if I am not mistaken, in 2004. You remember what Boris Tadic's promises were like. If he wins the elections, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro will be preserved. He, along with his Western friends, will solve the KIM problem, so it is in Serbia's interest. You remember in 2004, a million new jobs were promised and it was promised that Serbia, most likely by 2008, would become a member, if not a member, and it is certainly a candidate for EU accession. Now let's see what happened to those promises made by the President of the Republic, to which the government allocated 43 million in 2009 for travel expenses. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro disappeared in May 2006, based on falsified results of a referendum in Montenegro. The authorities in Belgrade accepted the results and, based on the fake referendum, Montenegro is separate from Serbia. What happened to KIM, Mrs. Dragutinovic? At the invitation of Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic to KIM, the contrary to the Serbian Constitution, opposed to Resolution 1244, the Eulex mission. Boris Tadic deceived the citizens of Serbia because he claimed, and this is what he claims today, that Eulex came to KIM on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution and that EULEX will only be present in the environments in which the Albanians predominantly and dominantly live, and that the mission of Unmika will remain in Serbian environments. You are the MP of the SRS, Ljubomir Kragovic, who comes from KIM several times reiterated that there is no sign of a voice in KIM and that the only mission there is the Eulex mission, therefore, the EU mission. Boris Tadic, whom you, Mrs Dragutinovic, spend 43 million dinars on travel in 2009, agreed to keep the Eulexa mission status neutral, which means she is not interested in Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, that she is not interested in the Serbian Constitution and is not interested in Resolution 1244, which guarantees that sovereignty and territorial integrity. And not only are they not interested, not only are they statusally neutral, they are not statusally neutral. Eulexa and EU officials are loud and clearly telling both Serbia and the international public that EULEX has come to KIM to strengthen what they say Kosovo institutions are saying, so that Kosovo is more quickly integrated into the EU. This, therefore, is not a status neutral mission, it is also a status-biased mission, but in relation to Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, because Eulex is tasked with providing a legal, political and economic environment for Kosovo and Metohija to definitely be separated from Serbia and to join the European Union more quickly as such a separate part of Serbia. What happened to the promise of opening new jobs? Here we see in 2008 what happened to that promise. Not that new jobs have not been opened, especially not a million new jobs, but tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs. Every day in front of the National Assembly of Serbia, in front of the Serbian government, in front of the ministries, are protested by depressed workers, who have lost their jobs or who work for some poor wages, based on which they cannot support themselves or members of their families. I don't need to remind you, Mrs Dragutinovic, of the fact that Boris Tadic, the current president of the Republic, has repeatedly abused the travel expenses he has under budget law by traveling to various sports competitions, the Olympic Games, football and basketball games. But that's not even the biggest damage. The man traveled, he may like sports, but he recruited athletes to become members of the Democratic Party. To him, athletes are the mascots of the Democratic Party. He completely politicises athletes in the Republic of Serbia. Not only does he abuse the financial resources intended for the travel expenses of the President of the Republic, he also tries to put sports in the Republic of Serbia under the Democratic Party's hat, under his own personal regime. You know, Mrs Dragutinovic, as I know, as all the MPs know, that it happened during 2008, that Boris Tadic in 2008, that we do not go further into the past, in many ways abuse the budget, that he has abused sports competitions and that there is practically no Serbian athlete who has achieved any significant success in the international competition, and that Boris Tadic did not take it directly or indirectly as his athlete, that it is his friend, that he supports his DS etc. I'm really interested, Mrs Dragutinovic, where will Boris Tadic travel during 2009, when you've given him the entire 43 million for travel expenses? Serbia has not seen much benefit from his many travel abroad. You know, Boris Tadic, along with Milo Djukanovic, buried the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Boris Tadic did what every honest Serb, every decent Serbian citizen could not believe a president of the Republic would do. Boris Tadic indirectly agreed that Kosovo and Metohija should be separated from the Republic of Serbia. That, Mrs Dragutinovic, is what the NATO Pact, which the United States has been seeking since 1999, is for a Serbian politician to appear who will give legitimacy for the separation of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia, which is exactly what Boris Tadic did, because with his blessing, the Eulex mission came to Kosovo and Metohija. Such a man, Mrs Dragutinovic, you define 43 million dinars for travel costs abroad. Do you remember, Mrs Dragutinovic, when the SRS and the national and state-owned opposition parties staged a protest outside the National Assembly in February of this year over the illegal declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija by Albanians? Do you remember that on that very day, Boris Tadic had to leave for Romania urgently and officially, that he did not have the courage to look the people gathered in the eyes, to turn to him, to tell him what the state of Serbia would do about the separation of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia? No, but he fled to Romania, reportedly on an official visit that lasted, imagine, all day and when the national protest ended, he returned to the Republic of Serbia as if nothing had happened. To remind you, Mrs Dragutinovic, of what they know, not only do they know well-versed diplomats, it has now become a public secret, that it is playing with the International Court of Justice in The Hague, or with our initiative that the International Court of Justice will give an opinion on whether the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija is in accordance with international law or not. That it is again a brutal prank by Boris Tadic, because he already knows, I guarantee he knows, he may not tell you, but in well-directed diplomatic circles, there is a lot of talk about what a decision will be made by the International Court of Justice on the initiative of the United Nations General Assembly to open the issue of the legality of Kosovo and Metohija's declaration of independence. Boris Tadic, by whom you define 43 million to travel around the white world and in the harshest way possible to trample Serbia's interests, it is already known what opinion will be given by the International Court of Justice, and Boris Tadic, also known by Vuk Jeremic, that also knows Tibor Varadi, our former representative in front of the International Court of Justice. The international court of justice, Mrs Dragutinovic, will deliver an opinion that will have two views. In the first position, it will be said -- in principle, given the Charter of the United Nations, it is not allowed to separate from one sovereign state and declare itself a new sovereign state. The second position will be -- but given the specific circumstances governing Kosovo and Metohija, given the fact that Milosevic's regime committed genocide over Albanian life in Kosovo and Metohija, that ethnic cleansing took place, given the fact that 90% of Albanians live in Kosovo and Metohija and that the highest number of those 90% against the life of the common state with Belgrade, the International Court of Justice considers that Kosovo and Metohija were in line with the principles of international law. Do you know what happens then? Then Boris Tadic, the world traveler, will go to the cameras of national television and say - Serbian citizens, we did everything we could, we used all diplomatic, legal and political means, we addressed the International Court of Justice, but behold, even the International Court of Justice said that the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija was in line with international law. Then the final act of issuing the state of Serbia, the government and regime of Boris Tadic and de jure will recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence and then Serbia, the Serbian people and all future generations will simply no longer have legal basis and any legal relationship with Kosovo and Metohija. (President: Time. ) There, Mrs Dragutinovic, I have tried to explain to you in these 15 minutes why 43 million dinars should not be given to this and this president of the Republic, in order to trample Serbia and the Serbian people's interests in the white world during 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11727	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Section 2, 3, 7, 9 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11728	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I filed one, I think, a complicated amendment, but it's not complicated, it's not much. We communicate like this, it's important when it's short notice to communicate with the minister. I have determined that I am trying to find, and of course not to change that entry-exit side of the budget, so to speak, to find more money, the situation in which we are in this amendment, above all for the State Auditing Institution, as well as for the Army of the Republic of Serbia. When such a Rules of Procedure and we have such a relationship, perhaps we should consider how according to the budget in the next period, according to this law, not to exactly apply the Rules of Procedure, as it is, but to find some other solutions to the budget law, again in accordance with standards, let's say, democratic societies, because this member is really complicated. If we were to bring the budget, so if we could see how many sides it is, every MP has the right to one amendment per member. Then we must put such things as, say, money for the State Auditing Institution or the Army of the Republic of Serbia to one amendment, which is not a good example. Indeed, there is a need for a stronger fight against corruption in the public sector, and this has been the case these past few months and how currently public enterprises are concerned. Now we see that they're going to be going into some kind of review of the Department of Defense's business, because of what the Chief of Staff said. Basically, it's all the work of the State Auditing Institution, which hasn't even started to work. I can agree with the minister that she says -- you know, they got as much money as they asked. However, it is not acceptable. So they can ask for a little, but they have to do a lot more. To do much more, we have to provide them with conditions. Let us provide them with the conditions, determine, declare that money for the State Auditing Institution, and then, if they don't work, let's say -- people, you don't do your job, it's time to change you, to choose another State Auditing Institution. So, like this, in this way, they can always have an alibi, how the government doesn't give them money, space to work, the government says -- they have so much in the budget, they've asked so much and there's no real business control or public enterprises, or control how the budget is spent. The state audit institution should also control local self-government in the way it works. So this needs to be developed as an institution. It is necessary to do so, in some countries it is called - the Commission for Control, have co-operation at the European level between the institutions. But we're kind of standing here. We're not going anywhere. In my opinion, there's no increase here, that's about 300 million. It's also about this story that they don't have the space, I don't know, there's a minister who won't move or give them space, so then it takes more employees to do control the right way. I'm saying -- it's not just budget control, it's all public enterprises, all ministries, all public enterprises and institutions and their business, all budget users, whether it's the Republic, whether it's local self-government. Where was I looking for money for them? Let's just say, with the President of the Republic, I've asked in some parts to see where he gets his money cut, because he's the first man to say he should fight crime and corruption. I guess the first one should set an example to reduce money in his cabinet, so it should be given to those who need to fight corruption. Then, the General Secretariat of the Government, for example, the estimated cost of travel to the General Secretariat of the Government, believe it or not, is 94 million dinars. I've reduced to 44, this amendment suggested that 50 be transferred to the State Auditing Institution. Then, the Office for Media Cooperation, however, obviously deceives citizens with the information it provides about the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We see on the street that it's completely different when the unions come out, that it's not what the government says what they're doing, what they need that kind of money for? From $37 million to $16 million, let's say, for wages and earnings, because why do they need that kind of pay? There's enough to work for two people, we're reducing public spending, we're saving, and yet I'm saying, it's more important to the State Auditing Institution. On the other hand, the military is inadmissible to go below, and 2.4 GDP is some minimum that should be defined in the military's needs budget. It's a minimum. In the Army, they complain it's less now. We saw, the Chief of Staff said that at the Defence and Security Committee session, that what was scheduled, and even what he had was not used in the right way. We've already made it once, it has to be understood, parliament has made a decision on military neutrality. National security strategy, the defence strategy must therefore be adopted. All the needs of the military, because we all know that because of this new situation, about 2.5 to 3,000 new soldiers of professional service, not to mention that no professionalization has taken place, plus what is scheduled, we need to increase by another 3,000 professional soldiers of the Army. Nothing will be done by what is now foreseen by the military budget. So absolutely nothing. All the experts from the Army, the entire General Staff, everyone else says that. So, are we going to be safe, are we going to have the Army as Serbia deserves, and what is Serbia, given the position it is in and the strategic decision on military neutrality it has made, are we going to define ourselves in that way? We have good examples. That's not true. There's always delusions here. There are several countries that are members of the EU, which are not members of NATO, Sweden, Finland, Austria, too, which are not members of NATO, nor the EU - Switzerland, etc. So there are several such countries, they have their own practice in using the military, they have their own practice in using the national security strategy, etc. We can adapt a lot of things to what we need. There's no need for anyone to continue to think about the NATO Pact, and I think this last military event seems to be doing something on purpose. Just think about the term, the day the President of the Republic signed the gas-oil agreement with the responsible directors and ministers, the day General Ponoš's interview with "Politica" and the list "Alo" came out on the same day. Someone convinces me it's not a message from the other side of the government in Serbia, no one can. Otherwise, it wouldn't be the same day, it would be a few days earlier, five days later, it would happen today, but this way it happened, it certainly was a message. I tried, too, to find money where it seems to me that it was excessively given, whether on this basis, they were looking, these others were looking for, so they got so much. I believe the Army has asked for more. How come she didn't get as much as she asked? For example, the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister, which, apart from Krkobic, who certainly doesn't need a cabinet, should not have been in the government, but come on, it's his only function. These others, for example, Dacic has a cabinet at the interior ministry, Dinkic has a cabinet in his ministry, Djelic has a cabinet in his ministry. Why do they need these cabinets? Why do they need this kind of expenses? It's big money, 72 million, 67 million, 60 million for some advisors there, for people who are employed in these cabinets, and we're talking about reducing public spending. On the other hand, the EC, for example, tourism -- subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations -- 1,980 billion. Two billion, are these the ski resorts or what? Again, we don't see where it goes, which is 1,980 billion in that classification. Or, for example, EC 481, the same tourism ministry -- grants to NGOs 50 million. So, the 2008 budget ends and we see a full Belgrade billboard on Petrovac at Mlava, on the Old Mountain. What's that doing in Belgrade? That's what we need to advertise in Vienna. What are we putting billboards in Belgrade for such places? Is now the moment, in this situation, that way to spend money? Or, for example, non-financial assets financed from NIP realisation funds means an additional 550 million. There are all sorts of tourist destinations, tourist destination management. We listened to the minister criticizing there some board of directors, the Old Mountain, that she didn't understand how they spent money on other things. So here, believe it or not, I found about 1.5 billion of this amendment money for the military's needs. The argument of the Government is, in particular, not accepted because the funds are intended for those costs proposed in accordance with the competences and needs of these budgetary users. So these are their responsibilities, these are their needs, but we don't see individually what this money is so separate about, and we know how much the needs of the Republic of Serbia's military are, we see what the situation is, we know that the country's security, however, is somewhat improved by this signing in Moscow, but that it is still threatened and that it is necessary for the state of Serbia, according to the decision on neutrality, to have a stronger army. Of course it is necessary to have a stronger State Auditing Institution, if we want real control of the spending of public funds, budget spending in all segments of our society and the public sector. If that's what we really want, then I think this amendment should be accepted. Of course, some will be denied because of this, it's not controversial, it's always like that when it comes to the budget, but I think we need to set priorities much better than this government did in the proposal. Finally, we're making a budget, and they're just making a draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11729	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, there is no help. We can start commissions. Looks like they let someone out of the house, so it's coming out. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] What has been done since 2001 shows that this government has not only not in any way intended to comply with the law, but will use every moment to abuse the law and to do what is right for them. Among other things, yesterday I showed data related to the Ministry of Telecommunications, where you had the opportunity to see how the minister paid off, allegedly, for some of the jobs done, for 42 workers in her ministry, so they had 250 million left. Now I'm going to show you information about the city of Belgrade and the city administration from 2001 to 2003. These data were obtained under the Access of Information Act and are related to the budgetary inspection of the Ministry of Finance; budgetary inspectors Nada Metikos and Lazar Nikolic; records on the control of material and financial operations and the non-intentional use of the budget for the period 2001 to 2003; the number of record findings 401-00-00591/03, from 9.7. The duration of control - started on 21 May 2003, ended on 10 May 2004. A total of 50 pages of text related to this control. "The budget inspection established prior to the control that the business of Belgrade City's Executive Board of the City of Belgrade was responsible for the controlled period: Radmila Hrustanovic, president of the Belgrade City Assembly; Nenad Bogdanovic, president of the Belgrade City Assembly Executive Board; Tamara Stojcevic, Secretary of the City Administration; Tišma Marko, secretary of the Finance Secretariat; Ljiljana Brdarević, deputy secretary of the Finance Secretariat and Ljubisa Lučić, assistant secretary of the Finance Secretariat. "They're all DS personnel. "In the process of control, the budgetary inspection revealed that the city government was responsible for the following period from 2001 to 2003: 146.945,000 dinars were not purposefully spent, so it was ordered to return this money to the Belgrade city budget, within the deadlines left." I'm also asking you a parliamentary question to ask me if and when these funds were returned by order of inspection? "More than 235,000 dinars is the value of a tender that the city's government has unlawfully implemented, counting tender offers and breaking the law. One hundred and thirty-six million dinars are illegal transfers from the city's budget, which the city's government carried out without any legal basis. More than 500,000 dinars from Belgrade's budget were spent in violation of the laws and regulations by the city's government, between 2001 and 2003, were found by the findings of the budgetary inspection." These are the data that best state what this democratic power is and who came to power in 2001. Now let's go to dots, how much money is spent on what. Eighty-six million were illegally spent buying social peace. He says: "The funds illegally paid out of the current budget reserve that serves other notes, not for the payment of solidarity aid. "Unlawfully touched 5,570,000 to the City Administration Union; 45,000 thousand were illegally spent on payouts; 160,000 illegally concluded labour contracts. The inspectors established that contracts with contractors were concluded after the deadlines laid down for the performance of tasks and contracts; that contracts were not defined by the size of the transaction, but were merely a description of the job; that the fees were made without the confirmation that the job was carried out; that for the same description of the business and for the same period the different amounts of compensation were established. Five million and something illegal was paid for the transport of employees; 6,700,000 funds for the settlement of some tax liabilities; 45,000 thousand were illegally transferred from the city of JP's "City Housing". The inspection ordered that 45.6m dinars return to Belgrade's budget within 30 days. I also ask this as a parliamentary question, is this money returned to the budget of the city of Belgrade? It says, particularly interesting are the frequent findings of budgetary inspectors, which in their findings indicate that numerous financial documents were not available to them during the control and that the heads of the City Administration claimed that they did not possess the requested documents. Unlawful transfers from Belgrade's budget reserves. Based on the conclusions of the Belgrade City Assembly, 17.8m dinars illegally transferred from the city's budget to the account of the JKP Belgrade Power Plant, 15m dinars illegally transferred from the permanent budget reserve, 40m illegally transferred to the Railway Node Company, 6.7m illegally transferred to JP City residence, 9.7m, 1.5m, 22.7m, etc. Everything illegal. Irregularities in public procurement. He says, less procurement, less getting a car. The city administration of Belgrade acquired a 3.3m-dollar vehicle from the company ADM from Knic. However, the budgetary inspection found that this procurement was illegal, as the firm has its offer and delivered it after the deadline for the delivery of offers, while before it were delivered by Auto-Cacchak from Cačka and Ivanic from Iriga. The purchase of furniture, you remember "Nikola Tesla", a 800 thousand ficus, a spoon of several thousand etc. He says furniture procurement. The purchase of office furniture, chairs for the City Administration in 2001 cost 3.1 million dinars, while 1.2 million were planned for this purpose. Buying a mast, this is very interesting, six flag masts worth 873 thousand dinars, the company got a "Progress" from Valjev. However, out of the four bids, there were even more favourable offers than Progress, budget inspectors found. The question arises why did he get an offerer who had a worse offer? There's also some photocopiers, that's not interesting. It's an interesting purchase of 20 buses for GSP. The IO of the City Assembly, in its December 2002 conclusion, identified 127.9m for the purchase of 20 buses for the GSP. The tender was called and the commission chose "Icarbus" as the most favourable offer, whose price was 7.6m dinar, i.e. for 20 buses, 159.9m. Interestingly, the commission decided, despite the fact that Icarbus was the most favourable, to choose the Unibros style firm. That offer was much bigger. The budget inspection found that this procurement was illegal, as it was conducted by reading the tender, with infringements of the rules in force at the time. We'll just come in slow, no need to get nervous. It's interesting who this company is, Unibros style. She said, she reported 2001 total income of 333 thousand, a expenditure of 447 thousand dinars and a loss of 114,000. She applied to buy 20 solo buses. Bigger traffic has a simple trade. The company only intervened between FAP and the city government. Just mediate, don't make those buses. It's interesting that you didn't know you could make a deal directly with FAP. Purchase of 10 solo trolleybuses for GSP, launched tender of 5.4.2002. Seven complete bids have arrived. He says, however, three firms took the short-list, following talks, to submit a supplement of bids regarding prices and deadlines. How is that possible? I really don't understand, Minister, how this is possible. She says, although she had the most unfavourable conditions from the basic offer, the Unibros style for the offered trolleybus model, which was 71 million apiece, has reduced to 64 thousand dollars. The other two companies didn't cut, because they gave real prices, one gave 64,998 dollars, and the other 64,500 dollars. Look at the obvious crime, look at the obvious crime. He gave $71,500 apiece, when cheaper bids came in, he subsequently cut the price to get a job. Normally, the budgetary inspection provided a finding that the purchase of a trolleybus in excess of 39.3 million dinars was carried out in an illegal manner, with violations of the rules and procurement procedures. Purchase of five solo city buses for the needs of the Lasta bus company Belgrade. The purchase was made in 6.8.2002, under the contract of the Transport Secretariat as an orderer. The price of the bus offered by Unibros per piece was five million and 454 thousand, and the price of Icarbus's five million 350 000. The difference is 104 thousand, so times five, five hundred and some thousand. On the basis of this, the budgetary inspection also found that it was carried out in an illegal manner. Interestingly, Unibros and Unibros style are not the same companies, both are from Cyprus, one is founded in Limassol and the other in Nicosia. Looks like their best man is the same, but he doesn't have much imagination. Unibros style and Unibros. Probably if it were a little bit deeper to find out that it was actually the same firm or one of those same owners. He says the purchase of a ticket canceller for Belgrade; here, too, a broken law, has established a budget inspection. We've been ordered to return the money. Not to tell you, illegalities in incomes and expenditures, etc. The official trip to Paris says payment, etc., and no valid documentation has been provided to justify this spending. It's not much of a deal, when we take Bojan Krishti, they're only 700 thousand dinars. It's not much. Epilogue, I'm looking at time, I don't want to violate the Rules of Procedure, when budgetary inspectors, based on their findings on November 17, 2004, ministers, filed a misapplication against 10 responsible persons in the City Administration, this application was rejected on November 17, 2005, after a year, rejected in all segments, and because of the obsolescence... (President: Time. ) a criminal prosecution that was possible only a year after the offence was committed. What to do, respect the law, no people, and now he says, there's a crime. There is, Bosko, now you'll see... (President: Time. ) He says, budgetary inspectors, here I am finishing, on 16 September 2004, their findings with the accompanying documentation were forwarded to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office for further treatment and determination of criminal responsibility of the city administration. The prosecution archived the case in the form of an official note on 18 May 2005, believing there were no elements of the crimes in a specific case. The second municipal public prosecutor's office in Belgrade also rejected an application for economic crimes, which the budgetary inspection filed against those responsible in the City Administration. Madam Minister, this is just one small piece of everything that's been going on since 2001, not to mention a number of privatisations about what's been going on, just to mention Sartide and so on. Now it's quite clear why the Audit Committee doesn't work, now there's nothing to talk about, it's all clear, because those who work have no use either. They determine this kind of crime and ate a donkey wolf, no one, no one's responsible, and you yellows keep stealing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11731	National MP Miletic Mihajlovic has a word. I'd just like to say that you've illustrated how the city's budget is distributed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was not my intention to report, but certainly not to disturb the work in the context of what we have the opportunity to discuss and discuss, just one brief observation of what Mr. Shormaz is, I do not believe, in some negative context, mention the emergence of billboards that are propagating other values that are located outside Belgrade, such as the billboard that shows the scenes of natural beauty from Petrovec to Mlavi or others that show scenes from the Old Mountain, or some other parts of Serbia. Certainly, we from the SPS and the JS support such a kind of display in the large cities of all that are certainly indisputable values and other parts of our beautiful Serbia. It is necessary, especially for the young generation, to develop awareness that life is taking place, with all its values and advantages, and outside Belgrade, and that is not far from Belgrade, perhaps for an hour or two, where there is both healthy air and clean nature, and healthy food, and certainly we need to pay attention and learn, above all, that the young generation that Serbia is equally valuable and important in all its parts. For these reasons, we support one such policy of regional development and investment in all its parts. Therefore, I may be hypersensitive if Petrovac is mentioned at Mlava in some negative context, although no injury or labelling has been done in that direction, but believe me, I am sensitive to that, Mr. Todorovic. Come to Petrovac at Mlavi. Djura Jaksic said in his song "The Way to the Gornjak: From Velika Sela to Ždrel himself, as if the villa had been destroyed". The large village is the beginning of the municipality of Petrovac in Mlava, and Ždrelo is the end towards Homolj. Come, dear Belgraders, there to see what beauty is, and you from the government certainly propagate Petrovac on the Mlavi, the Old Mountain, all the parts, the Woodland, etc., and in Novi Sad, and in Nis, and in Belgrade, because Serbia is equally important and equally beautiful in all its parts.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11733	I thank Mr. Mihajlovic for reminding us of the beauty of the Gornjak. Mr. Shormaz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11734	I'm completely misread here. First of all, I didn't say anything negative about Petrovic at Mlavi. I'm not from Petrovec at Mlavi, but I was in Gornjak tearing wood in a monastery when it was necessary for winter igumania. On the other hand, I just said the opposite -- which is why these billboards don't go to Vienna, London, Paris, why don't we advertise Serbia there, why don't we advertise Serbia's beauty to bring money to Petrovec's budget at Mlavi, to bring money to where it's nice, but to take a budget here, so take some tourism, Dinkic, and then he's setting it up, and right now, in the end, which he didn't put in March, in April, but now that the realisation of the budget ends, he doesn't happen to remain unrealised money, let's just hang out, five days before New Year's, billboard. That's what this is about. It's not a service to Petrov at Mlavi. I supported that, but quite the opposite I said from what you misunderstood. I'm surprised you didn't support it that when the Ministry of Interior has, see how many citizens to see, for the cabinet and for the Ministry of Need, and then has a Deputy Prime Minister, first Deputy Prime Minister, executive and legislative bodies, financial and fiscal affairs, foreign affairs, economic classification 01 - amounting to 72 million. All that he has in the MUP, what he should have, another 72 million on the cabinet as vice president of the government. What isn't invested in tourism in the Petrovec economy on Mlava? You should support this amendment. If you think so and if you say so about your end, you should support this amendment, because it is in favor. Who will come to Petrovac at Mlavi if the country is not safe? Who will come to Petrovac at Mlavi if the State Auditing Institution does not control the spending of public funds? Who will come from investors and who will come in tourism? You completely misunderstood me. My intention was different.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11735	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11736	I hope you accept this amendment and do not speak. I know you do. In Serbia's budget, Serbian citizens, the government proposed: the cabinet of the Prime Minister, function 110, economic classification 422, travel costs of two million dinars. That's the Prime Minister. We know what his constitutional authority, his jurisdiction, we know what he was chosen for, got most of it. His last name is Cvetkovic, if someone accidentally forgot who the Prime Minister is in Serbia. Not Tadic, Tadic is the president of the Republic and said he supports the government, but must change. We have a new interview, this is Boris Tadic's new ingenuity, which I support, but it's not good. So I'm good, I move aside, and let them do what they know until I change them, and how they'll change them until they get here, I don't know. So he's got to come back to our house, but let's just go back to the point. He says further, travel expenses, First Vice President's office, Ivica Dacic, his travel expenses are 11 million. So we have Prime Minister Cvetkovic two, and then we have Ivica Dacic 11, and then we have Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, that's Djelic, which is Djelic, who yells every little bit, let's go to the EU, eight million 799, almost nine million. Then we have the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy and Social Action, executive legislative authorities, financial fiscal affairs, foreign affairs, lack of tourism and regional development, probably couldn't stop, that's Mladjan Dinkic - 5.5 million. I haven't touched Krkobic, he has only that, there is not one Ministry, let him have the ally, no matter how much they gave him. But four vice presidents 13 times more travel money than the Prime Minister. Thirteen times more! Let's four to four times that, but 13 times that. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. You said you'd be better. Where you're blacker, here's your unions with sticks on the street, saying how much better you are. Kostunica has made 11 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, you have already spent millions. How much blacker? Fifty thousand people have lost their jobs, their salary has fallen 50 euros since you've been in power. How much blacker? Eulex in Kosovo. Don't throw away, respect the Rules of Procedure. Sold NIS. So, gentlemen, 13 times as many Deputy Prime Ministers as the Prime Minister. Who's representing the country? Is it normal for the Deputy Prime Minister, even if Djelic was at a meeting, at an international presentation, in a visit to the country, to imagine the Prime Minister of Germany and Djelic, is that not unserious by the state of Serbia? Shouldn't the Prime Minister go, even if no one recognized him? What's the reason he only has two million and these have 13 times as many? Mr Samardzic's amendment suggested that the DSS should be increased to the Prime Minister, to all these vice-presidents, except Krkobic, we did not touch him because there is no ministry, there is no travel costs, to make it even clearer. All these three have planned travel costs, it wasn't in Kostunica's government, so everyone has scheduled travel to their ministries, and plus additionally, other than Krkobic, they have in these vice-presidential cabinets. So, our proposal is to take them all down to two million, as far as it's been given to the Prime Minister, here, we from the opposition try to defend the Prime Minister and his position, and move to a division concerning the Prime Minister. In that case, instead of two million, he would have 21 million for travel expenses, if a man were to go and represent the country, to do what his job is, not the vice president of the government, because it's inconclusive. It is unserious for the Deputy Prime Minister to be a guest of some Prime Minister and to represent Serbia. Therefore, I think this amendment should be accepted, especially for you of the DS. Why? What's this for? These three, I repeat, have travel expenses in their ministry. What do they need in the cabinet? Reduce this, take it off, vote this amendment, do good for Serbia, and he does. Prime Minister, it's this Mr. Cvetkovic, if someone accidentally forgot, if he doesn't want to realize them, spend them, and better yet, he'll stay for something else. Let it write like that if it has to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11737	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11738	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course, that the 5th draft budget is the most interesting for both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, because in Article 5, the government predicted how about 9 billion euros will be spent, or around 700 billion dinars. Since the budget is filled with money from Serbian citizens, then certainly citizens should know how the government expects to spend their money. The amendment relating to Article 5, divided by three, Chapter 3.1, the cabinet of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, in fact the amendment that Mr Shormaz spoke of earlier, certainly has logic and should be accepted by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or in the day to vote by the MPs. These days, after the appearance of Mr Djelic, when he said that the global economic crisis was a boon for Serbia, that all foreign investors would rush into Serbia, because we were the only safe country of all others in Europe and beyond, when they only broadcast it once and realized how stupid the vice president said it, then, of course, they took it off and it was no longer broadcast, but after that, the story of how Serbia would save, how to reduce public spending, but to God, through this budget you can't see it. What we have launched, a question related to Belgrade Airport, Bojan Krist, through him and all public enterprises, for the director of public enterprises, for the presidents and members of the boards of directors of public enterprises, something has been said about these compensations, but every day in the media we learn again about some 300,000 dinars, of 500,000, of 400,000 dinars, and it does not seem as if information to the public that these salaries have been reduced. Compensation to members and board presidents that you've cut it down, that's also after New Year's Eve special questions we're going to ask you to prove it to us, not just to tell us, because really after all we can't trust the government on the word. Anyway, it was easier for you to cut back on the presidents and board members, because they all had a big salary besides that, so it was their allowance. But, the directors, we see, you don't seem to have cut your wages. Yesterday, there was also a reaction by Mrs. Parliament President to our colleague Vladan Jeremic's amendment, who suggested that travel costs be reduced to the National Assembly, so Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic said - when the amendment was accepted, that it would mean that we would have to come to work on buses. I think that last night, all of Serbia cried over the fate of poor MPs who have to drive like everyone else in the world. So, if we want to be serious and if we really want to show that we are ready to save on public consumption, that in this way we try to overcome this economic crisis that is not so visible in Serbia yet, but the big blow is going on in February and March, the citizens of Serbia need to know, I'm not saying this to scare anyone, but simply the people need to know what is waiting for him, which is simpler than reducing travel costs. I guess it's much better than touching some personal incomes, etc., because that way it doesn't affect the home budgets of the users of this budget, but travel costs are certainly the item where it should be and where it can be saved. The explanation that Mr. Shormaz just gave is certainly appropriate, but here is what is written in the amendment as an explanation -- that it is unacceptable for the vice-presidents of the Republic of Serbia to have 13 times the intended travel costs than the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, he further says, whose obligation is to represent the country, which makes Serbia a state, and otherwise a non-serious state, etc. It really doesn't make sense. Of course, we don't complain about the fate of the Prime Minister that he doesn't have enough money to travel, but it's really amazing that you've distributed or tried to distribute these funds in this way. Then it's perfectly logical, especially since the fact that we've reported here several times how to travel -- the most expensive flights, how not to travel to our air carriers, but to foreign carriers, who are more expensive, how to take the most expensive hotels, etc. Then of course we have to take care and question this proposal of yours and these figures. You just reacted, not you, Madam Minister, but MPs of the assembly majority when Mr. Todorovic spoke. Even Mrs Dejanovic reacted and said that Mr Todorovic was talking about the distribution of the Belgrade city budget, and I guess the Belgrade city budget stems from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. And what Mr. Todorovic was saying was absolutely about the amendment that envisioned more funds for the audit institution, which already, for what, a year and almost two years, there are probably seven people there, almost one of them was on TV and said -- all seven are in one cabinet, getting paid, doing nothing. Why aren't they working? They are not allowed to work because they are expected to start doing their job seriously, and then many in the government of the Republic of Serbia would be in trouble. What did you foresee in Article 3, Chapter 3, travel expenses, cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister? Its travel costs envision 11m dinars, but within the ministry, where the first prime minister's deputy prime minister is scheduled for travel costs of 930m dinars. Of course, we understand that in the context of these travel costs, when it comes to the Ministry of Police, that there is also the cost of police travel, the terrain and, of course, it is absolutely clear to us. I'm not saying that in that context, I'm asking. I guess out of these 930 million, there's got to be something to add to this 11 million you predicted. If we had a final account after this budget, which we don't have for this previous final account, then we could discuss, or we could have had a final account to discuss, to compare, to see if, out of the 930 million, the Deputy Prime Minister, did he add to these 11 million travel plans. Then we have the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for the field of European integration, and that's your division of 3.3, chapter 110, function of 422 travel costs. Eight million 799 thousand dinars are scheduled, but there is an item in his ministry for another 10 million dinars for travel costs. Now, if he's going to spend some money on traveling as a minister and others as a vice president, it would be nice to know. Of course, we know again that not only travels by the minister, and we do know again that it involves the travel of other employees, i.e. officials in both the ministry and the vice president's office, but somehow it's not the easiest thing to say -- we don't believe there will be no expenses from the cabinets of the minister, the vice president's office, since it's about the same man. You now say in the same article, section 3, Chapter 3.5 of the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy and Social Action - executive and legislative bodies and financial and fiscal affairs and foreign affairs, economic classification 422, travel costs are 5.5 million dinars. Every day to travel and every day to do a successful job, this would be a lot. And we have really fantastic experiences with our vice presidents, especially Djelic, who was visiting Europe, who was calling here -- let's go, let's go, go to the white Schengen list, go to the European Union this day, this year. Every time he left, he didn't do the job, but every time he came back with one big minus, because it's obvious that man isn't capable of doing the job. This is the reason, in addition to objective reasons, that it needs to be reduced a little bit, that it sits here a little bit more to do something concrete, because of this way, so far, the Serbian citizens have not seen any use. It is completely realistic that what has been proposed by the amendment - that travel expenses are reduced to two million dinars to the vice-presidents of the government, because two million dinars are quite enough and travel through Serbia, and that they travel around the white world, and of course we see at the end of the year, if we accidentally get a final bill, because I have to repeat it once again, that since democracy came to Serbia since 2000, the final budget account for the previous year has not been discussed in this House. Madam Minister, as an expert on finance, I have no doubt about it, and I am sure you consider this a major failure of all the governments so far, and it is unacceptable that we from here cannot tell the citizens of Serbia that they are and where their money is spent. We have an opportunity, when we talk about the budget, to draw attention to the citizens -- how the government plans to spend their money, and here we have a lot of objections, and we are making these remarks. But it's an even bigger problem that we can't do at the end of every year, which we can't tell the citizens now that they spent their money last year, how they spent the last budget. There are some objections coming from these lines, and they probably forgot they were in that previous government, but if they have any objections, let them say it. How do they say it, when we don't have a final bill, which we could all discuss. The most interesting thing is that since you haven't accepted the amendment, you might want Mrs. Dragutinović, it is your argument, I mean your government. It says - the amendment is not accepted because the funds are intended for travel expenses under the division of the cabinet of the Prime Minister, the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration and the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy and Social Action, proposed in accordance with the competences and needs of these budgetary users. In jurisdiction we don't touch, we talk about needs. We're not saying it's not within their jurisdiction to travel. We're not even saying that it's not within their jurisdiction to deal with... (President: Time) This job, but to spend this much money, Krkobic spends 5.5 million dinars of Serbian citizens on some trips, and this government is a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11739	Thank you. Mr. Maras, then Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11740	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, the amendment submitted by Mr Slobodan Samardzic, who explained Mr Shormaz, of course makes sense when you look at him in a way that tries to reroute the funds that are intended for the travel of those who already have funds in their ministries. Of course, I am also talking about the first vice-president and the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of regional development, and at the same time he is Minister of Economy, the first vice-president is also Minister of Interior and Mr Djelic, who is Vice-President of Economic Integration, while at the same time is Minister of Science. It seems to me, Mr. Shormaz, that you've overlooked one thing. You've tried to transfer the funds to travel expenses for the prime minister, but I believe you're also witnesses, in the past few months, as much as the prime minister has traveled. Some others have taken responsibility to do some of the jobs the prime minister is in charge of. If I were you, I'd reroute these funds most of all to the Ministry of Energy. We have seen it in the past, and I believe that only in the future will it be noticeable, or it will be necessary to travel to Moscow. Several times in the past few months, the energy minister and his associates, as well as others from the government, have travelled to Moscow. We were all witnessing that wonderful affection the other day, but since we have now signed for the south flow only the basic terms of the basic agreement (Mr. Shormaz, please listen to me as I would like you to understand). So we signed basic terms for the basic agreement. Probably the following are the basis for a basic agreement on the basis of a basic agreement on the construction of the South Stream, so we will be witnessing next year that Minister Skundric, who is responsible for signing this, will travel very often to Moscow, until we are aware that there is nothing from the South Stream, but the funds that you have channelled to the cabinet of the Prime Minister, I think we should really go somewhere else, more specifically, to the Ministry of Energy. We tried during the principle debate, when we've singled out opinions in public, let's say, Madam Minister, that your stories that the budget is restrictive, these examples show that it's not. We were saying that doubling funds for certain resolutions, when it comes to a vice-presidential place where jurisdiction overlaps, is completely unnecessary. We heard once that the budget was restrictive and stimulating. Unfortunately, it's restrictive in social giving, driven only by the accumulation of jurisdiction, and I'll give it to you through one example. I really don't feel bad about it, but I have to say that, let's say, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is intertwining with the Republic Development Institute, the Agency, we have the exact same jurisdiction, we have organs and ministries where they have the exact same powers. It's completely unclear why you didn't try to sublimate all this in one place and try to be restrictive in the budget, not through giving to our society, but you were the most restrictive in the Ministry of Agriculture. One more thing, when it comes to the Ministry of Economy, I downloaded something from their website, I wonder if it's really the same government. Dinkic - illegal, up to 90% of NIS sales go to Vojvodina. It's a minister who's probably sitting near you in the government. I tried several times yesterday to get an answer from you -- why were you prepared to violate the Privatization Act to fill the holes you left behind, because you weren't able to make a budget as optimal and as necessary to go to Vojvodina? I've asked you that question several times. When you accepted Mr. Aligrudic's amendment, you did it smut, briefly, but not a single word yesterday, during your address, to explain to us why you broke the law. I remind you that the Deputy Prime Minister, at the same time Minister of Economy and Regional Development, is on the government's site saying that this is against the law. I'd like you to explain to us what this is about -- is it illegal, have you even considered, is this Lex specialis, that you've led to the problem? As for these funds, or this amendment, I really suggest that Mr. Shormaz make a correction, so let everything be transferred to the Ministry of Energy, much more next year will travel to Russia, to sign various basic conditions and everything else. And especially since we have another problem, you must still have a lot of resources, although I suppose the Minister of Energy knows Russian well, for translators, since, say, the agreement signed for the Banatski dvor is only in Russian and the only period in Russian. There is no version in Serbian and therefore I ask you to transfer some of these funds to translators.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11741	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11742	Mr. Maras, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the previous, with the DS majority, signed a roof agreement in Moscow, a gas-naphtha, which was extraordinary. What they're doing in detail now, don't ask us a question, talk to them. For these details, these things and these side contracts, ask them. If we're talking about travel costs, whatever the ministry is, the cost of travel to Moscow is lower than Washington, cheaper for the state. I don't mind if we have expenses and travel to Washington, but don't slow down any travel to Moscow. It's a dispute that you said the Prime Minister wasn't going anywhere. I agree with you. He's probably expected two million, too, but it's a shame for the state, to write in the budget 13 times more to the vice presidents of the government than to the Prime Minister. Brooke and shame, what kind of state is that? He doesn't have to spend, thank God, and don't spend, he's going to stay more for kindergartens, hospitals, military, police, let him spend, but that's us here, that's our job, not theirs, they don't know, they've shown that they don't know, as Government, to correct, that's our job, we're bringing the budget, they're only bringing the budget, we're making the budget, the Prime Minister has to be respected in the right way, two million vice presidents, 20 million prime ministers, but he doesn't have to spend. You set one example yourself, yesterday we looked at the screen, at the monitor, we couldn't believe it. So, Serbia's coat of arms, Serbia's flag, the government's website and the government's vice president say - funds are illegally distributed from the sale of NIS. What are you doing in that government if it's illegal? Well done, you went out nicely and said, Dinkic says - illegal - and thank God so they accepted the amendment of MP Milos Aligrudic, otherwise someone would have to deal with them again. That amendment, just to tell you, is how much I understand it being accepted, does not mean it will not continue with illegal actions. We've led to an opportunity not to, but it's a question of what they're going to do further in realising everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11743	Mr. Dimitrijevic has a word. There are seven minutes left for your parliamentary group. Zoran Ostojić according to the Rules of Procedure, you have the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11744	The President, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Shormaz, 104. You can't say that when your party was in the government that she signed a wonderful agreement in Moscow, and now these are the details that belong to this government, so let this government be asked. All right. We were against that agreement, but these aren't details. This is serious stuff, does it have guarantees for NIS, what's the investment plan? It's a long way from detail. That's the point. What don't I get? It's not clear to me, if you're so happy with this agreement and now you're saying that they need to realize this agreement, and that for these details we ask them, don't you care that these details, which aren't details, are in line with what you signed or are no longer interested in it? You're done. It does seem to me, however, that signing the agreement is a political matter, because details are economics. Details are what we dispute, from environmental standards, to investment plans, to essential things -- gas pipeline guarantees. I should be more interested in you, so-called. the details of those who initiated it. If they're not interested, they've only done it for political reasons, so the country can turn its way towards Europe, to Russia, and that's fair to say. It's not an economy. We'll give them everything they need, it's politics. We love Russia. Russia should come here. You let go of that west, etc. That's fair to say. After all, maybe it's Moscow. Moscow must be closer than Washington. Costs must be lower for a trip to Moscow than for Washington, but this assembly has ratified the SAA. The EU's headquarters is in Brussels and, to be fair, it is cheapest to Brussels. It must be cheaper to Brussels from Belgrade than to go to Brussels via Moscow, if it can reach Brussels via Moscow at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11745	First Mr. Marash by the Rules of Procedure, then you, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11746	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, 104. No one here has disputed that it is necessary to travel to Moscow, but unfortunately by the means provided, and especially by the intentions that exist in the government itself, not to say in the presidency, or the president, we will travel much more often to Moscow than to Brussels. I understand, Mr. Shormaz, in the sense that you are pleased that anything has been signed with the Russian Federation, but in your place, I would say that what was signed is not what is in Serbia's interest, because all you say is that the government's product, headed by Mr. Kostunica, when it comes to an oil-gas agreement, is not there, except for the sale of NIS itself, on even worse terms than those in the agreement. Mr. Shormaz, you've convinced me of two things and I have to say about this pay phone. Number one, Mr. Dinkic needs to leave the government. I agree with you here, because if he thinks it's against the law, if he thinks the contract signed with Gazprom is not in Serbia's interest, he should also leave the government. The second thing you've convinced me is that Mr. Cvetkovic is just a formal prime minister, that these travel costs can point to that, but they don't have to. Everything we see in public clearly indicates that someone else is prime minister. Again, I must quote Mr Dinkic, who said that some people who are not in the government are controlling the government and trying to influence the government and implement some decisions. Although we have some thinking, very important, in these two things you have managed to convince me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11747	Thank you. Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11748	I'd like to remind Mr. Ostovic of a two-way. Two, don't spin, don't turn what I said now. I didn't say we weren't interested in details. Our details and how interested they are. The crown agreement that has been made is indeed strategically, on the economic side, economic, security, for Serbia great and no one can slow it down. As for the details, we'll talk about it when he gets to the National Assembly. And as interested as we are in you, let's see if it's done the way we planned to do it while we were in power. The South Stream is also needed by Serbia, the pipeline needs Serbia. We all know that. If you're already talking about Brussels, I'll say it again, there is a North Stream. It goes under the Baltic Sea, directly Russia - Germany. Berlin is closer than Moscow to Serbia, but they have no problem, as the EU's largest member, making the North Stream with Russia. They don't have a problem. This is just passing through us. The end-user is the EU, Italy and other EU countries. It's just passing through us. Nabucco, I don't mind, but I'm saying, I was in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, it's fiction. It's a story. It's so far away. I know you can say that no project has been made yet. Agreements are signed, states are signed. There's no paper for this, just an idea. Even states are not any agreements, there is no agreement between the two countries regarding the pipeline. It's not a dispute. We at the DSS are interested in details, too. We hope we will not see such things now, as we now see on the Government of Serbia's website, unlawfully this, illegally. That's terrible. We're interested in details, but I'm saying, when you're criticizing these details, even before certain agreements have come to the Assembly, please, you have whoever's in power and who's doing this, please contact them. Not to us anymore. We are our business, while it was, ended in the interest of Serbian citizens. That there may be doubt that those who are power now, and some of them who are power say the same thing, are not doing it the right way, now discuss it with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11749	You have no right to a replica. Mr. Dimitrievich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11750	Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come out to support Mr. Slobodan Samardzic's amendment just for a reason written in an explanation. It is explained that it is unacceptable for Serbian Deputy Prime Ministers to have 13 times the intended travel costs than the Prime Minister. I certainly find it interesting and an explanation of the applicant's representative. "The amendment is not accepted because the funds are intended for travel expenses under the division of the cabinets of the Prime Minister, the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration and the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy and Social Action proposed in accordance with the competences and needs of these budgetary users." What's so controversial about that? By the logic of things, needs and competences should be with the Prime Minister, but it seems that someone has more needs and more powers than the Prime Minister. If we start to consider it, so since we have the Deputy Prime Minister, the three of them, who are ministers at the same time, does that mean that when they travel on the road that they travel the first day as Deputy Prime Minister, then the costs go from that position, and the second day travels as Minister of the Resort Ministry? How do you explain that? Yesterday, I was talking about a coloquy of the Prime Minister's name on the budget, I call it coloquially stimulating-restrictive. Let's see now, here he is, there he is encouraged. He is encouraged by the Deputy Prime Minister, but he is restrictive for the Prime Minister. So, what does that show? Who else does that budget encourage? For ministers, for ministries, for the General Secretariat of the Government, for the state administration that is increasing. Who's he restrictive to? For whoever's out of a job these days. It's restrictive for pensioners. It's restrictive for health care. It's restrictive for all those people you'll put your hand in your pocket by increasing excise duties due to the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement. For them, the budget is restrictive. There won't be any money for them, so you'll help them in that way even more so you'll increase the price of electricity, basic life supplies, then heating, and at the same time you'll do some things that are simply difficult to explain. About half an hour ago, Mr. Todorovic was talking about the city budget and there is now a story in the city's budget that is related to the construction of a bridge across Ada Gypsies. Be careful, it's a company in Austria's Por, with which the government is persistently trying to break up the concession on the construction of Horgos-Požega highway. That firm is not good if it's a concession, but that firm is good when it's supposed to build a bridge across Ade Gypsies. How can you explain that? She's good once, and she's not good once. The bridge costs over 300m euros, and experts say that two bridges can be made for that money, and this one should be built, so that sawmill will be 200m high, so let's call it Mr. Dragan Gilas' Pilon, to name it 300m euros. So, it's a pairing. It's an incentive budget for those who already have, and they don't even know what they're going to do, and it's restrictive for those who can barely survive these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11751	Thank you. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, the People's MP, Riza Halimi, submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Halimi, come in. Mr. Halimi, wait, please. Mr. Radovanovic wants to follow the previous amendment, I really haven't seen him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11752	Gentlemen Chairman, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, to be honest, when I first read the amendment of my colleague Samardzic, I did not pay particular attention to him, but after such a meaningful introduction and reasoning, I believe that everything is more acceptable to me as well. The reason I'm reporting now is yesterday's full-time debate on Article 4. Proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I am not happy and I am not looking forward to the fact that the citizens of Vojvodina and citizens of the entire Republic of Serbia could hear from a number of parliamentary groups what and how the duchy and autonomy in our country is experiencing, but it is good to remember. What I am reporting for is in fact this accepted amendment of Mr Aligrudic, which reads - exclusively from Article 61. The privatisation law, the budget of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, belongs to 75%, the budget of the Republic of Serbia 10%, and from the sale of the oil industry the remaining 15% under the government's special programme is allocated to all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what the government will accept until the end, but I would like all the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to remind me that last year we passed a law on the right to free action and the financial compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. Article 18 of the Law reads as follows: "Lawholders exercise the right to share shares without compensation in the following public enterprises, i.e. companies with the majority participation of state capital, i.e. companies that carry out their activities of general interest. ''Below number 1, these companies or companies have a company for research, production, processing, distribution and transport of oil and petroleum products, research and production of natural gas, the oil industry of Serbia AD Novi Sad, in the following text: NIS. The position of this same member shall be as follows: ''In companies and companies listed in Article 1 (hereinafter referred to as enterprises), the capital to acquire free shares shall be 15% of the underlying capital of each undertaking. "It is not difficult to calculate, if we are NIS, or if you sold NIS for 400m euros, under this free action law should be divided, not less than 240m euros. How, then, in any way, it can be predicted in other parts of the budget that there will be 90, 75 or however much, when four and more million citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of these 240 million, are expected to have some money. It seems to me that someone is trying, of course, never to succeed, to bring into any conflict between the citizens of Vojvodina and other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but among those four and a change of millions of those who wrote these free actions there will also be Vojvodina, so someone who will surely be found to exorcise it and what I have mentioned to every citizen who wrote those actions will be. And about what the League of Social Democrats was thinking about selling, there must have been words here, I wouldn't repeat it here, right now, so somewhere around 11:30, the "You sold NIS, you sold us," and it's going on in front of the Refinery of Gas in Elemir. Who cares, can be more detailed about all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11753	National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11754	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm reporting as vice president of the Parliament Club, because in fact the amendment was an amendment to the DSS Parliament Club. Yesterday, the amendment came through, I don't know if you had the opportunity, Mr Radovanovic, to see it, because we said that the amendment no longer reads, the meaning is similar, it is quite different: after determining the statutes of Vojvodina, after the adoption of the law in the Serbian Parliament, the law on the transfer of jurisdiction, when precisely determining how much of the funds from the budget belong to the AP Vojvodina, taking into account all the delegated powers, only this difference of surplus that defines the Constitution and the surplus funds will be allocated to all municipalities in Serbia, taking care of regional development, the state of infrastructure and all the needs of citizens in the entire territory of Serbia. Our intention was at no time that any citizen of the Republic of Serbia, anywhere in Serbia, should live, be in a subordinate or different position than other citizens. It is by our amendment and by accepting such an amendment that all Serbian citizens are placed in a completely equal position.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11755	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the amendment, whose text has already been read, but I will repeat it. On Article 5, the third amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11756	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when I submitted this amendment, I had no illusions that he would be accepted by the government or that he had a chance to provide the majority in this assembly. Not only my amendments, but the amendments of my predecessors, who represented the Albanians of the Presevo Valley in the People's Assembly during the 1990s, had no chance of getting anywhere near them, none at all. The main idea of this amendment is to get to know the public about the huge problems that arise in implementing the government's programme for this area, adopted in February 2001. That there are problems and fundamental differences in the concepts of work of the Coordination Body, which is responsible for achieving this programme, could also be seen in the controversy I had with the president of this government body when discussing the draft budget. First, I'd have to do it for you, and also for the public, to explain that it's really not about the extra money these municipalities are getting. It is known that a good part of municipalities, which do not have enough of their original resources, investment projects are realised through the funds they receive from the ministries -- infrastructure, economy, agriculture, education, culture and other ministries, which have their own investment development funds, and to support the development of municipalities. In the last two years, these investment activities have been integrated into the National Investment Programme and then it was possible for us to apply to these funds. After certain conflicts in the area of these municipalities, taking into account the fact that these municipalities are also the most underdeveloped, mentioned in the Government's programme, these municipalities are allowed to provide funds for investment projects through the Coordination Body without applying for other ministries' funds. That was a silent deal. We were in turn rejected in any other ministry when we applied for investment, because they said - you have the Coordination Body. Starting in 2007, when the NIP showed up, we also applied in the NIP. Bujanovac and Medvedja have implemented certain projects, not all of them, but Presevo has failed none at all, although they were originally approved. For example, Presevo was approved in 2007 for about 100 million, and in 2008, 40 million, but none of these projects were allowed, and that was deliberately, to be achieved. So we're back together, reduced to those projects that we've been granted through the Coordination Body. So there's no extra money. It's an absolute misinformation. So the Presevo municipality made a total investment worth 75 million dinars in 2007. This year, 80 were planned, so far only 73 have been achieved. Probably, after these tensions, he won't be going to that extra seven million to Presevo. That's what I said in principle. There are two thousand dinars of investments per capita in the last two years in Presevo municipality. You experts, tell me, you probably know better than the President of the Coordination Body, whether one municipality with two thousand dinars per capita can have a development program, especially if it is underdeveloped and underdeveloped. How can she, with that money, reach an average, let alone something else? For the period 2000-2006, when there was no NIP, all three municipalities achieved investment projects exclusively through the Coordination Body. At the same time, other municipalities did so with the ministries. So, I repeat, it's not about extra money for investments that was made only in municipalities, but that other municipalities, depending on ability, capacity, were making much more money, because they were able to compete equally, they had larger capacities, they were more capable. Why isn't Preshevo so qualified? That's what we need to discuss, not as simplified as it was offered here last time. It's very manipulative with 64m euros. It has never agreed to be spent on Preshevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, exactly every year on their behalf. It's only now that we got the data, 4-5, that's where the bear got a billion 415 million dinars in nine years. Bujanovac received a billion 348 million dinars and Presevo a billion 155 million dinars. If you bring that down per capita, then you will see that Medvedja received 14,600 dinars per capita, Presevo 3,600, Bujanovac 3,500. If someone is now hitting the national point, I ask why Medvedja, which currently has 700 Albanians, receives 3-4 times the amount of Presevo, in which about 90% of Albanians live. Is there any background, whose motive is ethnic division, and this story has been offered to us by the President of the Coordination Body at that session when we discussed in principle? My calculation is that in these three municipalities, if we translate three billion and 900 million dinars, if we followed the course that went from 2001 to today, it is 56 million euros. Of that, in nine years, the Presevo municipality for all the investments it had received 16m euros. It couldn't all go into investment. Of those 16m euros or a billion and 155 million dinars, here's what went, most of it, about 70% went into investment, but these were the funds that were directed, firstly, without the Coordination Body, directly directed to certain companies. Then, certain funds were directed to military projects, somewhere around a million marks and more, millions and 100,000 only in Preshevo were then provided for the mountain roads used by the military alone at the time. Most of these roads still don't use residents of these municipalities, because the Homeland Security Zone is, you know, abandoned. That's where the men went from. Only from those six mountain villages in Bujanovac, 3,200 inhabitants left in 1999, no more, no conditions for life, to return there. Not to mention Bear, where there were 5,500 Albanians before, and now you have only 700 Albanians and they have nowhere to go back. It offers us the concept of an ideal municipality president of the Coordination Body when it comes to Bears. He even wants to open universities in Medvedja, for Albanians, where there are 700 Albanians, and he is not talking about a more difficult and sensitive topic -- that Albanians have been unable to return to their homes for nine years because they have no conditions. It's broken, it's on fire, they don't have electricity, they don't have basics. Then where do they go back? We will now, on behalf of those 700 Albanians, as far as there is left, open universities, legal and economic. Thus, Mr. Minister offers us, probably on behalf of the Government, a solution to the problem of higher education of the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. In what way? Why didn't you remember, instead of in Novi Pazar, the university to open up in Nova Varosha? Now, in the case of Albanians, you're making fun of us, making fun of us. Feel the problem, people finish universities in Tirana, in Tetovo, in Skopje, even to Sofia, because this country did not provide them with that possibility. What story does the government offer now? That he will solve the problem of the Albanian higher education by opening the faculty department, legal and economical in Medvedja, and the whole story is ad ad act. What about the other colleges? What about those who are now studying? They're now waiting two or three years. Neither the University of Nis nor Belgrade nor the smaller ones will nostrify the diplomas of Macedonia, Albania, and they work with those diplomats across Europe. Serbia doesn't admit it. Although they began, in 2003 the University of Niski began to nostrify diplomas. Due to political certain developments in the meantime, they left the concept and stopped nostrifying diplomas. Young people, professional staff wait two or three years, have no employment, are not recognised diplomas, and then have to go either to Kosovo or Europe. Imagine the situation that in these eight or nine years, in this terrible economic situation in which Kosovo is presently, our young people have managed to get there to work, not in their hometown, in a situation where Serbia is far more developed. What's the story now? Now he is trying to break the whole tragic story with a catastrophic economic situation that is not related to Minister Markovic, not even connected to Covic. It's a long story. When the state was centralized in this area, it wasn't invested, when the state could invest. What did we have? We had the drive of several factories from Vranja, Kumanov and Zaječar, which, when the international embargo was introduced, were immediately closed, except for Simpa, which still works, all the others closed and disappeared. Let's move on. What did the Coordination Body do for economic development? It only gave 54 million to the Euroflex firm. You know why? They were doing the top of the shoe. Lom-work was working for an Italian. It comes in 99 years, bombings, they didn't even interrupt the job, and immediately after the bombing, they introduced the army into their plant. The production stops, the machines go to Vranje. Then what does the Coordination Body do? He pays workers who didn't work. It's gone about 25 million to pay workers who couldn't work. Then plus about 20 million to buy machines again. When it comes back to normal again, after a few years, the Italian is gone, no one will just take the top of the shoe and not work again. You see what about a million marks went for at the time. Here's an example of how much the Coordination Body has heard about the economic development of Presevo. An earlier apartment facility, invested by the Development Fund, 16 apartments for experts from the economy, all of which were directed by the Co-ordination Body to the police and employees of state authorities. That's the help that was provided for the economy. Now someone would lay down all the anger and criticism on the presidents of the municipalities and, possibly, that's a funny question, for three years I haven't had any executive office there, on the MPs in this National Assembly. What's the whole point? For a time, the authorities worked more perfiduously to control the only municipality with the majority Albanian population, which went to the polls, had their own leadership, thought they had an assistant or deputy head of Pcinj County in the entire state alone in Presevo. The other districts didn't have a deputy for just one municipality. It's for control. It is also now done by the President of the Coordination Body, who would directly share funds with NGOs who would hold round tables, and those who honestly thought about it are already doing so. Certain NGOs are already holding such round tables, not manipulating the means of the Coordination Body. (President: 15 minutes and 30 seconds. ) So here it is an attempt to usurp the rights of local self-government and that the only means we have for development are not decided by the authorities of local self-government, but by someone appointed by the ruling party again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11757	The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic, and then by MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11758	It may be good that my predecessor went broadly by explaining his amendment, but many of the details he made in his speech are not covered by the amendment. In the beginning, I must say that the amendment covers the division -- the Serbia Co-ordination Body Service for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities. There are economic classifications here. Each economic classification, Madam Minister, means determining the purpose of certain funds. So, EC 511, let's say, it's written exactly what it refers to, it's buildings and construction buildings. 60 million dinars were said there. Mr. Riza in his amendment says that in that 511 classification, 60 million dinars are being replaced by the amount, I think, 7.5 million. The Risk Amendment really moves within the framework of the government's project for the Co-ordination Body, which is 404 million dinars. He's just looking for an internal redistribution of those funds, "only". I must say, for the public's sake, that in other positions of this budget, there are resources for these municipalities. The budget transfers to units of local self-government, according to the criteria laid down in the specific regulation on the distribution of these funds and other regulations, is defined as much as from the tax, etc., not to talk about education, not to talk about health care as a whole, but has its own capillary structure according to local self-government units and the schedule of health institutions. That's not covered by the amendment. The amendment covers only that plus, that supplement that the state sets out for these three municipalities. So let's draw the line. As for the regular one, according to regular criteria, territory, units of local self-government, population, number of health institutions, number of pre-school institutions, etc. That part is not treated with an amendment. The amendment treats what is plus, which belongs to these municipalities and does not belong to other municipalities. We can't intervene here now with the amendment and say, within this 3.11. Please, separate the money for Nis. That'd be funny. These are dedicated funds for these three municipalities. That's where we draw the second line, to define where we are. I must say that last year, 385 million dinars were planned for this service of Serbia's Co-ordination Body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, for the next year 404,895,000 are planned. That's a 5.1% increase. If we exempt from this comparative review of other users, which practically starts in 2009, where they have an index of 400 and something, you will find little position where the increase in funds compared to 2008 is greater than 5%. What do I want to say this way? What I'm saying is that, when you increase your funding for 2009, you still take into account some criteria, probably the criteria that this space has been looking at plus for eight years, it means budget plus. Now we're talking about what a plus is. There's something going on here that doesn't suit me. I have to tell you, it doesn't work for me. If the state said, because of the demographic movements in that territory, the three municipalities, because of the fact that some villages are empty, that simply Serbs and Roma leave these territories, because they probably have some problems for normal life, the state specifically intervenes in buildings and buildings at 60 million next year, and Riza says, this should be reduced to 7.5, and all the difference is that by means of transfer funds of municipalities for another consumption, then we don't really define politics. Then lose the meaning of the Coordination Body. The coordination body makes sense to establish dialogue, contacts, calm down passions, enable not to disturb the demographic structure there and to feel as comfortable on the territory of the Presevo municipality, Bujanovac, Medvedja all on their own. That's the purpose of this plus that's being separated. If you deprive part of the budget of the funds that Serbs and Roma, as a endangered population, survive on their own doorsteps, that is commendation, so there is, that is the purpose of the Coordination Body. It's not the purpose of the coordination body to move people out, it's to stay on their doorsteps. When Riza says, you know what, I think it's a lot of 60 million to keep Serbs, but it only takes seven million, then I have to inform the minister, and you know it's hard to do when it comes to DS, I'm just bleeding. You don't understand. I think 60 million is small. Let me tell you, honestly, I think 60 million is small, I think you should give 250 million. Now, on a few examples, I'm going to explain it to you, because someone here said it yesterday, and my friend is a good friend, so I didn't want to rephrase it, that I didn't know Vojvodina. I know Vojvodina, I know Presevo and Bujanovac, Montenegro, Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska Krajina, I know all that. Do you know, say, there is a Serbian Orthodox Church in Presevo. It's probably one of the few that has two walls, fenced, and if it's fenced. There's a young priest, with two or three small children, they have to go three kilometers to school, very beautiful and lovely children. I think the Republika Srpska priest has officially come to work there. They just get scared when kids are supposed to go to school. There were big problems, there were some burns, graphite writing, etc. It was when Riza was the president of the municipality. In a village between Presevo and Bujanovac, when you go down that side road, I don't know what the village is called, there's a Serb cemetery from the 13th, 14th century, I don't know, there's a large concentration and old monasteries that need to be restored on those slopes. That's where the monuments are destroyed. Next to the cemetery there's one of our caravans, an army out there something, the police are actually holding something back. When the question arises, who destroyed those monuments, can't people come, it's hard to look at broken monuments, in Presevo, please don't be surprised, then the little kids say, it's brought down the little kids, what the little kids know, takes a 300-pound maul, hits a monument and breaks a monument, little kids. Ma'am, I would ask you to inform President Tadic and Cvetkovic, I think you can do a little bit of an impression with me, although that's hard to come by, that you're planning from the permanent budget reserve another hundred million to renovate those houses, to renovate those houses, to ensure people's survival, to survive on the doorstep. We want everyone to survive on the doorstep, not to empty our territories, so my uncle won't be the youngest man in the village, and he's 73 years old, so can you imagine the age of these 27 who live in the space that covers the territory of Palilula, the Old Town and the Sava Wreath? Anything to make people go back to their doorsteps. Let's go with the next paragraph, what Mr. Riza suggested to reduce. He suggested reducing the part that applies to, if I may say so, multiethnic communication. The funds needed to talk to neighbours in another climate, in another situation, to jointly address the issue of plumbing, sewers, to address the issue of co-existence. Why would it shrink? Explain to me. I'm telling you, get all these others, as you say socially responsible, socially responsible enterprises, to make payments to create manifestations that will bring neighbors together. Is it going to be folklore, whether it's going to be a song, whether it's going to be anything, to hang out, to get close. I don't know why that item is shrinking. We're talking about something that's from the point of view of the Republic of Serbia's budget plus, it's not regular, we're giving plus. Why are we giving a plus? Eight years is a policy to stabilize that situation there. There are international organizations there, they have their offices, they allocate funds, they make some projects there. When you go through those villages and those streets, you see the EU, and those stars, so this bridge helped these, so this time they helped these, etc. Some of them are spy, it doesn't matter, but give the connective tissue to those people. It's a job problem. The problem of work is not only in Presevo and Bujanovac, please, people, the problem of work is the whole state's problem, why on Saturday's tide Tadic said - keep your jobs. When he said -- keep your jobs, that applies to both Belgrade and Subotica, and Nis and Presevo. He didn't say keep only places in Belgrade, and you in Presevo let everyone quit. It can't be like that. We're talking about this plus. It's possible that these funds, the government could suggest, we cancel the Coordination Committee, we don't need any more. Then what would they be talking about? Now someone's complaining about that plus. In what sense is he objecting? Yes, the Co-ordination Committee will spend 404 million, but Mr. Riza wanted it not to go for the buildings, for the convergence manifestations and the third paragraph, it doesn't matter which, to reduce, to go into transfer funds. Who? The municipal administrations in these three municipalities. That's right. Let me remind you, a few days ago he was talking about blocking the account because of some court ruling. Would you hear that if it were, say, the municipality of Little Black or Frog, or Dog? Would you then show kindness and view the problem with the same eyes? No, I don't. Since we're talking about a plus for that I'm sure if you're able to redistribute these funds, so give a little more for survival, give a little more for the local roads, to connect those villages. In some villages, it's easy, people agree and make asphalt. They're relatively rich. You have rich villages there, you know. You can see by the houses what it looks like. I was just going down that side road and I didn't have a problem, Riza, I have to tell you. Your friends were waiting for me there, we were drinking coffee, and since there's a main water line in the church for Preshevo, it's nice water, so you know. When we're talking about this plus, let's make this a logic, but a little bit of an increase in these funds for the villages, for survival, for fixing houses, because you said there are still two populations quite endangered. They're all at risk. But some are a little more endangered. Which one? Well, those who have few, you know, few Serbs. They have big problems there, and around school, and about travel, and about other things, that I'm not opening this topic right now. So let's keep this internal distribution within this 404 million, but if you want to run that policy, please, let's do some positive discrimination, because it's in fashion.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11759	MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11760	Articles 225 and 226 of Rules of Procedure Mr Krasic could have been more interested in things he wasn't informed about. On one occasion, I had already answered about the cemetery on similar charges. There is nothing concrete about any local community, I have not heard of any church that he spoke specifically, but I specifically told him last time - mosque and Muslim cemetery in the village of Slavovac are ruins. We've never opened that topic, and we know exactly who did what, and you're arbitraryly talking about something that you've never given any information about. If it's a classification, I think we've explained a lot the last time, that it's not a question, people, that someone now, because that's what the President of the Coordination Body created that artificial topic, what's left for him. Whose municipalities are they? Where are those municipalities, Mr. Krassic? Now you start with the footsteps of that Lazic who says Albanians are deliberately giving birth in Vranje to get Serbian citizenship. If we had a maternity home or a hospital in Presevo, where would we be? You're asking similar questions now. Who's supposed to decide that money? Is it Presevo? SO Bujanovac? SO Bear? Whose municipalities are they? I'm talking about, by what moral right are you speaking here, that a man in the Coordinated Body, a minister should determine which NGO is to be given what money? Who can turn to the poor for social issues rather than the Social Labour Centre in Presevo, instead of commissions or competent authorities in these municipalities? That's what we're talking about. Or, he wants to build a university in Medvedja for Albanians with that money, where only eight Albanians end this year's high economic school. As for those economic classifications of buildings and buildings, 60 million, which have been artificially set since the beginning, from where the massive government creates an organ and now so much money for it, except for manipulations. People of God, it doesn't make sense. According to what we hear now, 273 million will now be municipalities only for Albanians, but these 60 million will only be for Serbs. Are you propagating now? That's what you're propagating because if it's about moving out, I told you last time, 11800 Albanians are less than an absolute number from 1991 to 1992. If we count growth, in the last 15 years, 25,000 Albanians have left the three municipalities, and in 1991-2002 the Serbs are less than 1,100 and 1,000 are from Medvedje. There are 150 more in Bujanovac, there are 200 fewer in Preshevo, and the largest deficit is in Medvedja, where you gave thanks to doing excellent work there. People of God, it's an undeveloped area. And the bear is underdeveloped, even though their president is doing great, but what can he do if the state doesn't help. Where did you see that the president of the municipality in underdeveloped areas managed to perform miracles if he had no help from the state, by the state's development funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11761	National MP Zoran Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11762	Mrs. Comic, I'm surprised you didn't notice how Mr. Halimi promoted me, he asked a question in the sense of Article. 225 and 226, like I'm a state factor. Yeah, I know I did, that's what I'm saying. He knows how to ask that question, but let's explain some things. Mr. Halimi, I wasn't talking about maternity homes or where anyone was supposed to have a baby, I wasn't talking about the university, I wasn't talking about those things you used to send from this pay phone. I totally understand. I have to repeat, if you really think that this 60 million, which is separate for buildings and buildings, is a form of manipulation of Milan Markovic, you can even convince me if you have any evidence and I would very much like to accept your evidence. Why? Because it would be evidence of a non-intentional spending of funds. What I was trying to say is that these 404 million that are planned for next year are just looking inside of them to redistribute and open up some questions, so it's all meant for all the residents of those territories. Probably two or three positions need to prevent some negative currents and it deserves attention. You bring out some statistics, you might have told the exact statistics, but the problem is what you took as a base, as a database for calculating these data. You've probably taken official statistics, but it's hard to live in all of Serbia. I find it difficult to accept the concept of positive discrimination, that someone is more equal than the other, but here we have a situation that the whole of Serbia is empty, and you are also aware of the importance of this territory. I know very well that end, Mr. Rizzo, that I am fully involved in the restoration of all those monasterys of Gjilan above Presevo and Bujanovac. There are 400 unrenewed monasteries in that diocese. Do you know what it is? It's a treasure, it's our pride, it's a civilization pride, if it hadn't been for the Middle Ages so dark and dark, those in the West were chasing witches at that time when we were developing culture. Let's rebuild it, show the whole world our history, our tradition, and of course you'll support me in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11763	People's MP Riza Halimi wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11764	By art. 225 and 226 — an additional explanation. Gentlemen, there are really big misunderstandings here, but you're not to blame, because you're really misinformed. I followed the procedure from 2001 to 2005, since 2005, I have no executive functions in any of these municipalities spoken of. He can't get a dinar from any of the municipalities of the Coordination Body if he can't make the proposals first. These proposals are likely to be adopted first in the Coordination Body, where absolutely none of the Albanians are there, all here before Covic, Ljajic, now Markovic and others. So, what? They provide information which of our proposals has passed. To take the money to achieve these projects, you are additionally sending a situation for every coming building situation to win the money to pay off the contractor. Where's the possibility of manipulation? It has now been introduced since September that neither the assembly nor the municipal council nor the president can submit for projects unless the vice-president appointed by the government signed them again when from Belgrade. So the proposal can't go through with the procedure in Belgrade unless the previous proposal is approved by the Vice-President of the Co-ordination Body, who has an office in Bujanovac. So there's no way at all at the level of the proposal without the coordination body's permission to come here for consideration. Then why these fears of allowing one man something, past all these procedures, the proposal of the Assembly, the proposal of the Municipal Council, the passage through the sieve and the solution to several levels, and is yet to be realized on the ground. Instead, what are we looking for? To say directly from Belgrade -- to give this and this social case this kind of money, and we have a social center there. We have organs there in local self-government who are legally competent to do so. What else is being offered here? I'm telling you again, unemployment is everywhere, but there's 70% unemployment in Presevo. It's not everywhere, gentlemen. Instead of offering us projects, like this together, about opening new jobs, we're being offered, someone came up with from the Coordination Body that we're missing more of those round tables. We got it. Who says that? Come to Krasic and you will see in Bujanovac that the stands and Serbs and Albanians together and Roma are held every week and they are all there. I, a man in the area, who knows how things go, say that what the territory of NGOs does to people a long time ago, wasn't waiting for Markovic, they're already doing it without the means of the Coordination Body. I'm saying that our imperatives are economic projects, that we focus our resources on these procedures together. There's the point, and I absolutely don't see any further need to explain this. If there's anyone who wants to listen, this is enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11765	National MPs, members 225 and 226 cannot be used to communicate with each other, except that they are from the field of rights and duties. For each other, there is a basis in Article 101 — the right to replication, and Article 100, which is being spoken of as a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please understand this as a precedent that cannot be allowed. The word is by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11766	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I must tell Mr. Halimi that we are really concerned that these funds will be distributed, for one simple reason why we had the opportunity to see that Albanians who manage the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac are spending these funds. In the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, it is the Serbs who are really at risk. It's the Serbs who live in really bad conditions. From what I've seen from Mr Krasic's presentation, he knows the situation in the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac. I don't know how Mr. Halimi's courage to insist on asking for funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and we all know, some less, some more, that Albanians who live and work and have their businesses on the territory of the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities do not fill any single dinar with the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I ask Mr. Halimi when was the last time the state authorities and inspection services entered the village of Trnovac, in Kosovo Street in Bujanovac, to control how many Albanian and company companies are registered, do they pay taxes on time and regularly, and do Albanians pay for electricity consumption in that territory? Of course they don't. I fully agree with Mr Krasic that these 404 million dinars, which have been allocated for the work of the Coordination Body, the economic classification of 511 buildings and construction facilities, should be increased. It means that 273 million 613 are reduced, which are passed on to municipalities, and that what will be directly used by the Coordination Body and the investments are increased. Because Minister Markovic gave quite a good explanation for Mr Halimi's submission. The explanation is -- 60 million dinars worth of co-ordination body services planned to help in areas where municipalities cannot implement individual projects by themselves through direct investment in building buildings and buildings, as insight on the ground recognised the proportion in the development of Albanian, Serbian and Roma settlements. Then he says -- by reducing the estimated amount of the Co-ordination Body services, it would be deprived of the possibility of directly affecting the development of the lagging environments, and this specifically refers to the needs of the Roma and Serb communities. The answer is fine, and in response I fully support Mr Markovic, for the simple reason why, if you all go for example. in the municipality of Bujanovac and visit Serbian villages, such as Rakovac, Loparinca, you will see that there from the impact holes and mud people cannot normally move. If you look at those highways that were built in Albanian villages, such as the road from Lucan to Presevo, via Oraovica, and I don't know all the villages, Nesalca, Letovica, you will see that not one single dinar of the Serb municipality, which is currently run by Albanians, has not spent on the construction of travel, sewage, or water infrastructure in Serbian villages. It's a disaster. We have a BSK football club - Bujanovac, which is competing in the Serbian league and which gets 100,000 dinars a month from the Bujanovac municipality, and we have a Trnovac football club that competes in a low-class league and five times the funding from BSK. It's a real shame, but these are facts that can be seen on the ground and which are not difficult to determine. Take, here, to Mr. Halimi in the municipality of Reljan, the road is paved only through the part of the village where Albanians live and to the school where the Albanians go, and according to the Serb population there is mud. It's a real shame, that's the facts. In the end, but not least, Mr. Halimi here at the assembly's pay phone about how Albanian rights have been compromised. I received a letter from all representatives of Serbian parties in Bujanovac, which was also addressed to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, the president of the Serbian Parliament, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic and Minister of Local Administration and State Self-Government, President of the Co-ordination Body Milan Markovic. All Serbian political parties signed this document. What's this about? I will read this in the original form: "Respected, Monday is the session of the Assembly, where the remaining Serbs from the top positions at the Sports Centre and the Tourist Organisation, while Albanians insist on parity in the employment of republican authorities in the local region, with unfortunately very often coming out in order to calm interethnic tensions. Supporting the discussion of the President of the Co-ordination Body of Minister Milan Markovic at the meeting of the Serbian Parliament on 23.12.2008, we expect an adequate response to the above-mentioned intention, as otherwise for the remaining Serbs in Bujanovac would be a bad signal, which would unfortunately create conditions for self-organization, and this is very often taken out of control." To make it clear to all -- Serbs plan to block the work of the local parliament in Bujanovac on Monday, as they violate the elemental rights of Serbs to participate at least in certain local authorities, which so far has been the case. The Albanians also want to move these two Serbian directors. We're here all the time talking about how their rights are threatened, how 70% of the people in Presevo are unemployed, and that's a lie. Many people in Presevo have been employed, but work in undeclared shops, work in stores that do not pay taxes and contributions and work in such companies - normally that the Statistics Office was unable to record such jobs. Then we're making a fake picture of how bad we live. It's bad living in Vranj. This amount of funding, in this size of 64m euros, has not been allocated to Vranje, and Vranje is the centre of the Pcinj region. What do you do to divide Albanians and Serbs, and wherever you can, you Serbs move from certain functions? You make records, as children in elementary school, with a written hand -- this is how Serbian directors from institutions are replaced. (The emissary shows handwritten paper. That's ridiculous. I don't know how long this country will be ready to suffer the insolence of the Albanian community for southern Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11767	Right on line, MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11768	Ladies and People's MPs, I think this is when this institution's reputation is defiled. With such forgeries, an entire community is insulted. I follow, repeat, the Assembly of Macedonia, and the Assembly of Kosovo, and the Assembly of Montenegro and Albania, and this thing, in relation to one national community, cannot be heard. But let you as a majority see what you can do about it. I can't change that. The road to the Relians - it's a misinformation. It is a road to the village and to the school, where Albanians and Serbs work together -- it is not true that it is only for Albanians. Furthermore, it is absolutely not true that either these or those officials or the financial police or any official of these authorities cannot enter the Trnovac or any other settlement -- they are pure misinformation. Where the hell do you people live? Were they in Presevo or are you just misinformed this assembly that you really were? These things, if someone visited, if they have contacts, they can't say it here, it's really unserious. Furthermore, I repeat, someone here mentioned that there are 80 or 85 thousand Albanians in Serbia. They're gone, gentlemen. Statistics say there are 57,000 left, and there are fewer than 55,000 left, as the number of Albanians, as well as other minorities, but in Albanians, the number has fallen sharply in the last decade. If you want to do it or not, it's a matter of this country and its organs, but it's facts. Now, is it serious to ask that in the original budget explanation there was -- to prevent the migration of Serbs, and now, in the context of the amendments, it says that for the threat of Serbs and Roma, Roma are added. In that discussion, in principle, I said that in state authorities, local self-government is employed, has a job, it's the only job that people there have and in them do every nine Albanians, pardon every nine Serbs, every 28. Albanian and every 70. Rom. The fact is the Roma are the most endangered and who can slow it down? But right behind them are Albanians. What did the state not think in time for the Serb population, that these municipalities were developing? Who the hell are you talking about? Have Krasic explain here whether he will live in Presevo or live in Belgrade. Of course, because of some Serbian patriotism, if someone could sell, and it was sold during the '80s, it now fell, the properties were sold at high prices and, of course, they came to a more developed area. It's the problem of a state that should have its own state policy to undevelop, and here in this case extremely underdeveloped, develop. (President: Time. Three minutes and 30 seconds. ) In my opinion, there is the essence of the problem, and not in these bickerings and in these, not only to say, the accusations, but also to disqualifications. There's absolutely nothing you can do about it. Why wouldn't an MP do that when both the Minister and the President of the Coordination Body did it the other day? Then you opened the door. Come on, people, then think about the consequences of this treatment in this home... (President: Time. Four minutes. ..where more attention and sensitivity would still have to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11769	The word is by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. The time available to your parliamentary group is 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11770	Dear Mrs. Comic, I believe that in one part you should have warned Mr. Halimi during his presentation, because it is rude to give false information for this speaker. He said -- that someone said there are 85,000 Albanians in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so he said that 57,000 really live, and I say there are many more, for one simple reason why a large number of Albanians live in Kosovo, and Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia and will always remain. You just said in your first presentation - whose municipalities are Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac? Well, Serbian, these are municipalities located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and, unfortunately for you, will always remain within the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Like this, I'm really irritated by this kind of discussion for one simple reason, so I'm going to try to put the ball down a little bit. Like this, is there a country in the world where there are monuments and flags on certain parts of its territory for people who have killed Serb police officers and Serb soldiers? Now, that's on Bujanovac and Presheva's territory, so you can see the monument of Fatmir Ibishi on the road to Lucana - Končul, so you can see in Trnovec the monument of Captain Leshi and no one touches it. Even Albanians have the right to point out Albanian flags on their flag day, on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia - so Serbs are more than tolerance. I don't know how you're not ashamed to even talk about not being tolerated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11771	The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11772	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with full respect for the amendments submitted by Mr Riza Halimi, I must say that the Prosperity Group of Serbia-Serbia's Progressive Party cannot support this amendment for the following reasons. First of all, in the light of his amendment, Mr. Halimi has reused the term - Presevo Valley. The term does not exist in either geographical, historical, or political terms in the Republic of Serbia. This reminds very much of the term "Kosovo", because we know very well that the term "Kosovo" corresponds only to the Shiptars in Kosovo and Metohija and their mentors. The method of expression is avoided, for the word Metohija comes from the word metach, meaning church land, church property. This seeks to avoid the existence of the Serb people in KIM and seeks to suppress any trace of the existence of Serbs, Serbian people and Serbian culture in KIM. That is why this expression of the Presevo Valley reminds me overwhelmingly of the expression of Kosovo, or as the Shipari say- Kosovo. That is why I ask you to use the term either the Pcin County or the southeast of Serbia, especially when it comes to the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac. The expression - the valley of Presevo, does not exist in any sense. I don't understand why Mr. Halimi wants to build a new university in the area where he lives. If it is said that there will be two universities, economic and legal, I think it is really enough, and nearby there are other universities in Serbia, where young people and girls from Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje can study, even in their native language. We know well what the role of the University of Pristina was, that it practically all started there. I don't think it's anyone's desire to create a university that would later cause unrest in southeastern Serbia, or in the Pcinj County, and which would be only a source of instability in the region, but also in all of Serbia. Our wish is that all young, young and girls from Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje, any nationality, study in Serbia and in their native language. It is no problem, but to study under the Ministry of Education programme of the Republic of Serbia, not Tirana. We are very sorry that a large number of young people, as Mr Halimi says and confirms, are studying in Pristina, Tirana and other cities. Why don't we study in Serbia? They have conditions for that, Mr. Halimi, be sure of that. I think your commitment to the allocation of funds planned by the budget for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja is really bad, because you here ignore the funding of NGOs that aim to gather young people, both Shiparian and Serbian and Roma nationalities, to make workshops, to make joint meetings and thus to integrate this end into the Republic of Serbia. I understand Mr. Reese Halimi's interest, because he's coming from the middle where he comes back and where justice has to be done, and that's why he tried to go after this speaker a few days ago to defend the arrest of terrorists in Gjilan, who lived exactly in his area for seven years. He complained about police brutality, how excessive force was used, but he didn't mention what these suspects on the charge were doing on KIM in Gjilan, that they were killing innocent Serbs, that they were even drinking their blood when they were killed. If they're guilty, they have to be convicted. If they are found not guilty, they must be released and compensated, Mr. Halimi, it is not disputed. Mr. Halimi, I think it's in the interest of all of us to live in peace, to live in reconciliation, to live together, but you haven't given us enough evidence that you and other politicians from your neighborhood want it. You can't defend terrorists. We don't defend them, no matter what nationalities they are. So I advise you to either withdraw this amendment, because it is not good, there live three nationalities, Shiparian, Serbian and Roma, and believe me that the most endangered are Serbs and Roma. With your redistribution, your request to redistribute the budget, everything is given only to the municipalities. There's no construction, there's no NGOs, there's nothing but municipalities, so it's given to the administration. These municipalities of the so-called so-called so-called municipalities. The flag day, i.e. on the holiday of the Republic of Albania, stands out Albanian flags, contrary to the law of the Republic of Serbia. You should do better to integrate Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje into the Republic of Serbia than to create a problem here about redistribution that will not benefit either Shiptar or Serbs and at least Roma. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11773	Anyone else want a word? MP Riza Halimi, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11774	I don't know how sincere this last call for co-operation was. I'm asking a question - why am I here for the second year, but because of the mood to work together? Do you think we can get over this understatement, this disqualification that you're presenting now, sir? In my first speech, I said that for a long time we didn't know how far these municipalities from the Coordination Body were separated. We knew what was coming to our budget in municipalities, but we didn't know how much money was being made to certain economic organisations, religious communities, mostly churches, once only the Islamic community in Bujanovac got, and there was created after a great dissension, and it was given to other state authorities, we as a local self-government had no information. It is good that, during this summer, this information is globally given, but it is not yet provided in detail, and I ask Mr Pelevic and other debaters - on what grounds do they bring courts? Did they have any more detailed information to see how much of it SO Presevo or Bujanovac had allocated for asphalting, how much for the economy, how much for education or any other purpose, and how directly from the Coordination Body were transferred and for what purposes. I haven't had that kind of information in detail so far. I don't know how you got that information, if you're taking it out like that. If this is how you disqualify without information, it's not okay. Then I'm afraid not all the political farces turn out, just to justify that the state of Serbia did everything that was supposed to be there, and that some Shiptari don't even know the records to write, they don't even know the investments to lead. Have you seen the minister? Praised only the president in Medvedja, for what? Because he's a Serb. A man is good, capable. Which is why, according to this logic of yours, he is now not capable of the president of the Bujanovac municipality or the former one. Leave me. Isn't there someone capable of Albanian by your criteria? Where does this logic lead? I've been clear and decadent about these events that have been the last days. I've condemned, like the last time, the excessive use of force, the abuse, and it's cruel, people who had nothing to do with it. Incidentally, they got into their homes wrong. It's not the first time. It's been going back and forth these seven or eight years to get the cops and the special police into the innocent houses. I was talking about these events and those violations of the fundamental fundamental rights of citizens, and now I'm talking. If you now condemn people without any argument, create a climate, create an atmosphere, as you are now creating on the charge of the President of the Coordination Body, then I really don't see any motive why I would still try to explain anything to anyone who has brought a court in advance, has a play or prejudice in advance. I'm really powerless.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11775	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11776	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting by article 101 and 103. For us, this amendment is unacceptable for several key reasons that have no basis in this discussion that has developed now. I want to say that the strategic goal of the Serbian state is to create undeveloped municipalities, and above all three municipalities on the administrative line with KIM, to raise them, to develop them, and to allow a multiethnic society to be created there, in which they will not be asked who is the nationality, but who can and knows how to do it. The fact is also that in recent years Serbia has invested huge money in these three municipalities and the fact is that these effects are also not proportionate to the funds invested. At the same time, this is about extra funds. It's not about funds that get all the municipalities and other municipalities. This is about the additional funds that the state is devoting precisely with the intention of trying to develop these three municipalities, to allow all citizens to stay there and live. I ask you not to return the dispute over this amendment to the past, which has led to the problems we had in those three municipalities. The intention of all state institutions is to overcome all these problems, to really enable people to live with each other and to allow people to live there. The fact is that there are economic reasons why people leave, not just political reasons, and that is the obligation of the state. So, the superior state must bear in mind that people are leaving for economic reasons and that it is necessary to enable people to work, because that is the assumption that they can stay there. Once again, I ask you to let us finish this and not develop a discussion that really won't lead us to solving the problem. On the contrary, I think it will lead us to the very beginning of the problem we had, and I don't think that's the goal, Mr. Halimi, or yours, and I assure you, it's not even the target of the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11777	Right on the line, MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11778	I'll just take a minute. I repeat, there's no extra money. There is nothing plus, Mr Krasic introduced the term, because it is a clean situation. These municipalities fail, I say, whether due to insufficient capacity, whether because there is frustration of political in certain ministries, these municipalities have long been unable to achieve any of the state funds, any investment, and that is why they are lagging behind. The Co-ordination Body has been formed to address this problem, not to have to compete with the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Education, where they have always been rejected, but to improve the situation, because it will allow them to make investments directly, only for these three municipalities, by a shorter, simpler procedure. Statistical data suggests that in these municipalities these nine years no more is invested on average than in other municipalities. You look at the NIP, Mrs. Kolundjia. In NIP, the average per municipality per capita is around 6.23,000 dinars. In Presevo, with all means and for the military, and for the economy, for all other things, if you make an average of 3,600 dinars per capita in nine years. It is twice as small as the NIP, and ten times less than the average investment in Serbia per capita in 2005. To end with that, I don't want to underestimate the role of the Coordination Body, because it works to enable these municipalities to make investment assets, but they're not extra, but they're the only investment assets that these municipalities have the opportunity to achieve. Don't interfere with the means of education. Children must have equal needs, like all others, in this system that has a state, to give funds for education. I guess the municipalities get, Preshevo, Bujanovac, Bear, and all the other municipalities, VAT funds. If you mix that up now, then we really can't get along, something's wrong. I'm only talking about investment funds, thank God, if it wasn't for that, there would be no investment at all, because these are the most developed municipalities that don't have the capacity to have investment from their own resources. I don't underestimate that importance, but don't exaggerate it and wonder -- we're giving this much money, where is the money? It's demagogy. You're fighting each other now, what was Covic doing, what was Ljajic doing? I'm telling you that these are the only funds these municipalities could have for investment, and at first it was for compensation, for damages, compensation was made, so for different purposes and not investment went away these funds. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) That's the point and I think sometimes we talk, and we don't have enough information and then this bauk is being created, that there's Eldorado, that there's a distribution of funds without criteria. It really isn't and it doesn't deserve to be treated like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11779	National MP Borislav Pelevic, time available for another eight minutes and MP Miroslav Markicevic, time is available for six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11780	Dear Mr. Halimi, I'm reporting because I'm being misread, but I also want to take advantage of the time left for our parliamentary group under this amendment. Always Mr. Halimi complains about why there are so many gendarmes in southeastern Serbia, in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji. Because, Mr. Halimi, there were armed conflicts there, because it seemed so-called there. Presevo's Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Medvedje, a parallel KIM terrorist group, because there were reasonable doubts, which have been confirmed these days, that war criminals, who killed Serbs and committed war crimes at KIM, are hiding there. It's a very simple answer that makes there have to be more gendarmes there than in other cities. That's the first one. Secondly, I just wanted to give two comparisons, a comparison with the term Presevo Valley and the term Kosovo. We said the term Kosovo or Kosovo, according to the Shipari, corresponds only to the Shiptars and their mentors, because they want to bypass the term Metohija, because Metohija is a church plot where churches, monasteries and atrocity on KIM is church property. That's what they want to say to undermine the name of Serbs and the existence of the Serb people in KIM. Mr. Halimi introduces a new term - Presevo Valley, which does not exist in either geographical or historical or political terms, and that reminds me of that term Kosovo. The second comparison is to seek out universities practically in Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presevo, and we know well what role the University of Pristina played in the kidnapping of KIM from Serbia, these are two comparisons. Third, Mr. Halimi, we cannot forget that you have repeatedly defended those who are suspected as terrorists who committed serious war crimes in Gjilan. It's just saying that you tend to that side after all. I said that the emphasis of the Albanian, Cypriot flags during the flag day in all municipalities is really not right. What I wanted in the end to underline is that we want all young people, both Serbs, both Shipari and Roma, to study in Serbia, if necessary in their native language, and in Bujanovac, and in Presevo, both in Legal and Economic, both in Vranj, and in Nis, not in Tirana, not in Pristina and not in Skopje. That's what I wanted to say and invite you to live in peace, not to raise tension in southeastern Serbia, in Presevo and Bujanovac, because it doesn't suit anyone and at least corresponds to the Shiptar national community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11781	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. The time available to your parliamentary group is 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11782	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, I would like to clarify some things here, since obviously someone did not understand something, and it seems to me especially Mrs Nada Kolundzija, head of the ruling majority, or MPs of the ruling majority. This letter that we received from Serbs from Bujanovac and Presevo, because there are Serbs at risk, and here the story is going in the other direction, I have to read again here, because someone hasn't figured out what kind of message they sent us, to all of us, and all of the MP groups got this letter. As Mr Riza Halimi represents citizens of Albanian nationality, New Serbia's MPs represent citizens of Serbian nationalities from the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, and you must understand that. The letter is the following: "Respected, Monday the Assembly is scheduled to change the remaining Serbs from the top positions of the Sports Centre and the Tourist Organisation, while Albanians insist on parity in the employment of the republican authorities at the place, where, unfortunately, they are very often faced with the goal of calming interethnic tensions. Supporting the discussion of the President of the Co-ordination Body, Minister Milan Markovic, at the meeting of the Serbian Parliament on 23.12.2008, we expect an adequate reaction to the above-mentioned intention, as otherwise for the remaining Serbs in Bujanovac would be a very bad signal, which would unfortunately create conditions for self-organization, and this is very often taken out of control. It would be very desirable on Monday, 29.12.2008, when the Assembly of the Municipality will be held, prevent the agony of Serbs in Bujanovac by your presence or at least share it with us." The letter was sent to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Boris Tadic, the President of the Republic of Serbia's Parliament, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Mirk Cvetkovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ivica Dacic, Minister of Local Self-Government and the President of the Coordination Body, Mr. Milan Markovic. They signed a letter, gentlemen of Parliament, the Municipal Committee of the DS, President Goran Taskovic, the Municipal Committee of the SPS, President Bozidar Angelković, the Municipal Committee of the DSS, President Miroslav Tašković, the Municipal Committee of the NS, President Ljubisa Djordjevic, the Committee for Human Rights Bujanovac, President Svetislav Veličković, the Municipal Committee of the SRS, the President Jovica Stojmenović, the Municipal Committee of G17 Plus, President Zoran Antic, the Municipal Committee of the SP, President Nenad Tasic, the Municipal Committee of the PSS, the President Ljubisa Mladenovic, the Church of Sveti Petar and Pavle, President Bogoljub Milosavljevic. From the presentation of Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija, I need to understand that she is something different from Mr. Milan Markovic, the minister who, the other day, seemed to have brought forth here the truth about the situation of Presevo and Bujanovac and how Serbs live there. I've known so far that by many, and I mean, we've all heard it here, questions the government differs, or individual ministers make contradictory statements. I would like Hope Kolundzija to go out for this speaker and say whether her opinion, the ruling coalition's opinion or the ruling DS differs from what the minister, Mr Milan Markovic, said. It seems to me that he has spoken the truth bravely and honestly, and we should support it here, because down here, I repeat, Serbs are threatened, not Albanians, dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11783	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? National MP Riza Halimi, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11784	I'm sorry, I didn't get a chance to listen to the last speech, but I saw what the problem was. In June, about half, I sent a memo to President Tadic and I asked for three things: to reorganize the Co-ordination Body, to really involve Albanians, and there was no point in the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedje there was no Albanian. Now, in the last year, there has been one employee in Bujanovac, one in Presevo, and before that in eight years, imagine, a state body for these three municipalities of not even a single citizen from these municipalities, so none of the Albanians did, which made any sense. Then we asked for the reorganisation of the Co-ordination Body and the involvement of Albanians in the state bodies, because they really aren't there. In Bujanovac, which you just mentioned, there is not a single Albanian official in state bodies, although there is 55%. The employees of the state authorities have only 21%. In Presevo, in state authorities, where Albanians account for 90%, Serbs 8.5%, half -- as far as employment is concerned, and there are four or five Albanian executives in state bodies in Presevo, and in Bujanovac, none at all. What were we looking for? Let's create an atmosphere for Albanians to join the state authorities too, not to speak for the border crossing, there are no Albanians there, neither in Pcinjska nor in Chukarka. Let's create an atmosphere to gradually involve Albanians in state bodies, to be what functioner of Albanians and state institutions and Bujanovac and Presevo, and to absolutely in such an atmosphere, we had two months of deadline, we were establishing local self-government. Then the state had bigger things, had no time to deal with the problem. We had that legal deadline so that our elections would not fail and most were made only among the Albanian parties. I know that this session was scheduled, and I asked on the phone a few times to postpone it, to make room for talks, to create a favourable atmosphere, to finally get Albanians involved in state institutions, of course, as it was in the 2000-2006 period, when he was vice-president of the municipality, three executives in the administration, now there are two. There are currently three executives in local self-government institutions, and this division would only have one left. I asked for this session and these points to be postponed, to leave one space enough to sit down, talk and to get these things and these problems over and over again. I absolutely think that we have to work in that direction, but I would not now choose the Serbian vice president of the Albanian, which is my party's position. My councilmen, my election parties voted for Mr. Draskovic there, one case. Never did Serbs vote for president in Presevo and Bujanovac, but Albanians voted for the president of Serbia in Medvedja. Let's create such an atmosphere. We set an example, but come on, gentlemen, there are only 15 Albanians in Medvedja in all local self-government institutions, only 15 Albanians in all state institutions and 31 in education. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. Let's fix these situations and work together instead of outwitting ourselves like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11785	MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I am sorry that we are leaving the topic and are not going towards the goal of trying to bring the budget to an end, to adopt, but also the Government to find understanding and accept what we have discussed, which should be accepted in order for this budget to be corrected. The kind he's not good at. I'm sorry we're dragging you to another topic right now, talking about Presevo, the Bujanovac. It's true, sir, that you want to talk here about how in Presevo's danger is and you keep bringing it out here. But you Albanians don't want to show any will to cooperate. How do you comment on the Smurfs now? In the municipality of Strpci are all Serbs. There are several Albanians. What democracy did you give in the Strpci? You don't give them electricity, sir. You give them two hours a day. In the 21st century, people don't have electricity, you shut them out every day so that, for God's sake, you retrain them. You don't give water to northern Mitrovica to drink, hold the valve to great glory, to Christmas. Last year you turned off their water for 24 hours. What democracy are you talking about? Do you know what I would give you in Bujanovac and Presevo if I were to ask myself in Serbia, all that you gave the Serbs in Strpci and northern Mitrovica, I would give you the same thing - no less or less. I would like to explain to the EU and to everyone. Why turn off the power when you've got enough? Why are you shutting down drinking water? Because you want to make sure you know who the boss is. When you force those Serbs down in the Strpts to respect your institutions, which you illegally formed in Serbia's territory, you now want Serbia to give you command down in some new area you called - the Presevo Valley. There's no Presevo Valley, forget it, there's southern Serbia. There's Serbian territory and don't ever dream of doing anything like this again. Believe that Serbia and this parliament will certainly not allow it. We tolerate, the other day we quietly crossed over one MP, who calmly explained that he advocated the constitution of the Republic of Vojvodina. That's what he said in parliament, at the pay phone. No one warned him or said - sir, what are you talking about? Therefore, order must be introduced in this country, and for the record, and laws to be respected, to respect the Constitution. We will not allow, if some politicians allow a foreign state to be made in our territory, to be honored, so they will eventually respond, but we will not allow the real countries in the territory of a sovereign state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11787	Anyone else want one? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution... I ask the MPs of the SRS to refrain from banging inventory cases while I read what the amendment is. Can I or would you like me to apply Article 104 and give notices to the MPs who are disturbing the chairman? The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2nd point 6. Budgetary system law. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11788	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I hope this reminder applies to radicals and to what I expect when it comes to me as a speaker. In front of the SNS, in front of the Progressive Parliamentary Group, Serbia-Tomislav Nikolic, I have submitted an amendment to the division concerning the cabinet of the Prime Minister. It is simply a general attitude of the SNS that the cabinets of the vice-presidents of the government additionally burden Serbia's budget, that they are unnecessary and that they mean a kind of wastefulness. Most often, we have institutions that do these jobs, which are parallel to them working with the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister. In particular, as far as my amendment is concerned, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, Mr Bozidar Djelic. In this budget, we have planned funds for the European Integration Office and we feel it is unnecessary to have two institutions dealing with European integration. In Mr Djelic's office, we have 22 employees, 13 civil servants, 7 advisers, and 53 employees at the European Integration Office. Therefore, it is obvious that this cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers is unnecessary. Obviously, according to us, funds are being used irrationally. It is true that this draft budget reduced some funds by 91 million, as foreseen in 2008, that is 67 million dinars in 2009, as much as Mr Djelic predicted for his cabinet. It is also true that the amendment to this division was submitted by my colleague Stefan Zankov, that the Office for European Integration, of the 80 million dinars she had in the 2008 budget, allocated 120 million dinars for 2009. Therefore, on the one hand, for European integration jobs, at least at first sight, you have a reduction by Mr Djelic in your cabinet, but therefore you have a significant increase in the European Integration Office, which, in some ways, governs, directs and coordinates its work. I am under the impression that this is a simple hoax for the citizens of Serbia, a prank on us, the MPs, to create an illusion that Mr Djelic cares about the budget, cares about the costs of his cabinet, and that it is actually about increasing revenues. I think it is very important to say that the salaries, since I am speaking in part about my colleague Stefan Zankov's amendment to the European Integration Office, have increased from some 34 million to 45 million, although I am in the staff distribution of staff videos that there is no increase in the number of employees. So it's about an enormous salary increase of about 30%. It also does not fit the government's pledge to pay in this year's year not to grow beyond the growth of gross domestic product. So this is where it's important to step down. Also, projected inflation in the budget is about 8%, and wages have increased significantly, as well as services under contract in the European Integration Office have increased from 24 million to 42 million. At the same time, in the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister, these services are reduced from 25 million to 16 million. When you beat it all up, you come to a situation that, however, for contracts services, this budget provides for about 10 million more and that, unfortunately, at first glance, what seemed to cut costs in the budget is an important increase in European integration jobs and that Mr Djelic, as he has repeatedly shown, is not necessarily this time and has not respected the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11789	The word has been given by MP Momir Markovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to interpret this amendment, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I need to explain some things. The law can be proposed by MPs, can be proposed by the government, can also be proposed by the citizens of Serbia, of course, must collect the prescribed number of signatures and have the National Assembly, with that number of signatures, delivery and billing, and the National Assembly is, in that case, obliged to let the law go into debate, and then the MPs decide on the fate of the law. When it comes to the amendment, then Serbian citizens can turn to the MPs, suggest, prove that such an amendment should be classified and that then the MPs, taking over the amendment, sign on behalf of the parliamentary group of amendments. He can't do it any other way. Of course, an amendment like this could suggest someone who had some problems, let's say, if he was close to the current, so he touched the conductor, then the current hit him, so there were some disturbances, or he didn't even have to touch the conductor, you know that voltin onion, when you move forward to the conductor, then the current creates Voltin onion, and then it hits certain parts of the body and causes certain disturbances. To be clear, the ruling majority formed a coalition, it has 126, when it has 126, is now a question of whether or not there is, but in case it formed a government, it had these 126. Then she also proposes the structure of the government. Interestingly, those who advocate a trip to Europe, to open other doors in Serbia, both to the East and to the West, and when the doors are painted open, they want a draft to blow certain individuals off the territory. Those who are drilling into Europe, those who, in the end of the line, are given orders from the same Europe, I don't mean the ruling majority, they are pushing for the removal of the vice president's office, or vice president's office for European integration. Ladies and gentlemen, there's something not clear to me here. Or during the night, politics changed, although they tended to change politics during the night, so far they were nationalists, now they're analysts, so far they've been borderline of Karlovac-Carlobag-Ogulin-Virovica, now they're not. They go there not to visit Serbs, but to prepare the ground for Serbia's "snaderisation". To remind you, one of these said it would "snaderize" Serbia, and "snaderisation" of Croatia cost Serbs from Croatia's territory over 200,000 expelled, over a few dozen billion damages. I fear that by "snaderisation" of Serbia, Serbs in Serbia will experience the same. Let's get back to the amendment. This in front of me, I mean microphones, so, to lift the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for the field of European Integration, they'd say that they don't accept salaries in the vice president's office, either volunteer or leave the cabinet; so they'd be social contributions, that they don't have the right to pension, disability, social, health insurance. It's "care" about working people. They would, for example, end social benefits for employees, so these fees in nature would apply to a warm meal and to a transport stamp, so those who had an accident to work in the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, if this amendment were to be adopted, would have to walk or at least buy a bike, from Voždovac or, say, from Zemun or, if, God forbid, from these suburban municipalities, bicycles to work in the cabinet. He says it's travel expenses. Perhaps you should consider whether it is better for the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration to travel around the world or not to travel at all. Wherever he went, he did some damage. Let me remind you, it's that "let's all go to Europe." How's he gonna walk to Europe if we take this off him? Contracting services - ongoing maintenance of the building, running maintenance of machines, tools, electronics, of course, and that should be lifted. Then it will be the Serbian Parliament and all MPs who blame us for being late in Europe. I believe that this amendment should be rejected, not to consider this amendment at all, because, firstly, it is filed by an incompetent person, and secondly, the amendment is so nebulous, in the end line, that it is not worth wasting words about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11791	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is seven minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11792	This amendment constantly opens the dilemma, whether we need Vice President Bozidar Djelic or not. According to the results, he's not needed. It is not necessary for the simple reason when it went away, Serbia got a slap. She got it, and that big slap and from here it was, let's go, he goes to Brussels and he says, never mind, I got a slap, but from next year we're unilaterally applying the trade agreement, so we're giving up customs. We got double damage. Of course, this position, when you treat him as Deputy Prime Minister, as our sacred point, as Europe's most prospective politician, and I don't order all of his big confessions, starts with the yellow convertible "South", through the Law on the financing of political parties, and where he published the book, and we haven't yet received an answer that the political party can take credit or cannot take credit. You must know, ma'am, since that law is in your jurisdiction, the ones you're guarding. By safeguarding the Rules of Procedure and allegedly the Constitution, you are actually saving and protecting crime and questioning the legitimacy of all decisions taken in the National Assembly. Of course, that cabinet has long existed and has not been satisfied. When the Government Act was amended, when provisions on the cabinet were incorporated from the viewpoint of civil servants and special organisational forms, we were against it. We can see that it's multiplying now, that it's tending to. Yes, in that office it works 22, you can guess who these people are. Also, there's this commission, I think 50 people and something out there are doing, and here's a trick. The formally-legal amount was removed from the cabinets of Vice-President Djelic from 90 to 70 and some million. The commission has increased from 80 to 120 million. I think we need to draw an urgent conclusion that would prohibit Vice President Djelic from travelling abroad, because all his ways and all his travels were devastating for the Republic of Serbia. Take it, create a retrospective, do one chronology by date of what was going on, and when he was traveling, and when he went, let's go, and what happened a few days after that. You will always see negative economic results at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He needs to be contained somehow. I can't do that because we don't have most of it here, but I hope you can interpret this discussion as one serious warning that he should be held back. There are other positions in which the costs of official travel should be reduced, since there is no benefit from these official travels, but only the damages exist. I have to say for the public what it looks like, since I've been to these state delegations several times, although parliamentary, I have to say. Pretty clear messages are being sent. If it's a speech from someone from the SRS, then it's clearly manifested a struggle for national and state interests. If it's a DS representative, it's kind of going through the system, we're here to tell us what we need to do next. That's the relationship. I don't think we need representatives who go abroad by system, we're here to hear what we need to do. You can e-mail that. We've been living it for eight years, by coming a warrant from abroad, and by the contractors, to say one of the DS presidents are here, contractors. This amendment really and several other amendments concerning these vice presidents and these allegedly state bodies and officials, and their paths, are really opening up the topic. Now I'd like to draw attention to what we just talked about. You see, what is plus and what Serbia is separating for these three municipalities in southern Serbia, for building buildings and buildings is 60 million, and here is just the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister 70 and some million. Look what that relationship is. If we can talk about some positive discrimination to stay on their hearths in that territory there both Roma and Serbs and everyone else on their own, the state only separates 60 million, and for the Duke of Meridian the bank, for his cabinet, 75 million. Now tell me if there is any proportion, whether there is any political interest, whether there is a human interest that a Djelic, who, with such work results, as a civil servant, and as far as the private work results are concerned, was extremely successful, while he was in opposition for two years, 11.5 million received founding rights, shares in one of these banks, he was probably responsible that the bank came here, although he was in a fight with Vlahovic about what I think. He's in a big fight with Vlahovic, so they sat him down and gave him another bank. Now each of them from the first government has some bank, only this Batic lost his bank. Each one of them has a bank. Erste Bank, you know, Alpha Bank, you know, Meridian Bank is known, Procedurally known, Pitic at the head of a bank. Everyone's got a few banks. That's why I spoke to you yesterday, citizens. Deposits, savings stakes in these state banks over here, so let's make it 10% of the government's capital, just make it go away, we can take care of some responsibility. Get out of those banks run by these, from that Pitic, run. From what this man has cheated on the South Bank, so Meridian Bank, get out of it, Raiffeisen, the Bank of Intez, for the living head, there's a Panchean clan. Obstruction is financed there, Serbia's destruction is financed. You know, that's why it's very dangerous. Look how good that kid is. His cabinet has narrowed nearly 20 million dinars, but that's why 40 has increased here to the commission, and there's this Mrs Delevic, since that blonde has raised her hands from it, since we're going at that speed, and it must be known that almost every ministry and every state institution exists if not the organisational part in the composition, then a group of individuals who are obliged to work on implementing European standards, European regulations with our regulations. It is a great process of harmonisation and we can expect to pass laws on the National Assembly very quickly, amending the Rules of Procedure, under which, in two days 16 of the law, we would agree with European regulations and so probably in three months, and in English, and in Slovenian, and in Croatian, there would be no vote here and nothing would be applied. European standards and regulations, when the European standard is an individual... (President: National MP, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group is up. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11793	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26. Budgetary system law. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget began, the ruling majority has started from ministers to MPs who support this government, argues that the budget is restrictive, to reduce public spending, that most of the funds that the budget has to be defined for investment investments, in infrastructure, etc. However, if you look at the numbers a little bit, you can see that the situation is quite different than the ruling majority claims. For example, we are all witnesses to how much barbecue information is being placed on the receipts of MPs, about how much money they spend, and there were even some amendments that were more marketing than real nature. All in the desire to transfer responsibility for everything that is happening in the country exclusively to the MPs and the Serbian Parliament. I agree that MPs have higher incomes than most citizens, and that is why they live much better. Is it only the responsibility of the MPs, do they spend that national money in these divisions belonging to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or does someone else spend it? If you look at the division that regulates the National Assembly, executive and legislative bodies, financial and fiscal affairs and foreign affairs, you will see that 211 million dinars are defined for the parliamentary supplement. In letters and numbering something that belongs exclusively to the MPs, at least in this department. If we look at the 2006 budget, and the 2006 parliamentary supplement hasn't changed since 2006, we'll look at the amount of 159 million. Far smaller than it is today. If we calculate that the parliamentary allowance per MP is 31,000 a month, which is 93 million for all 250 MPs, if we calculate the tax to be paid, and I think that's 54%, if I'm wrong, correct me, that's 50,220,000 dinars, we're going to get an amount of 143 million. The difference between the amount received and the budget item of 211 million is 67 million dinars. I'm interested and I'm asking the question: who's gonna take that 67 million dinars? You know, there's some practice that someone introduces here, that the parliamentary supplement is not only received by MPs, but by elected and appointed persons by the National Assembly. It's not correct either, but let me accept that, but I cannot accept that some state officials, which are not appointed by the National Assembly, have a parliamentary addition. Since I know perfectly well that these are certain persons who consider themselves to be officials of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and are employed here, I don't mean the technical services that really receive pretty small salaries and which should make a lot more money, we can verify that the same ones who are now receiving that part of the parliamentary allowance, are the same ones who, for example, have made as much money for a month as one MP for the whole year. You can check it out, Madam Minister, you have the power so look, you'll see that I'm right. I'm interested in what kind of fees are in the national MPs' effort of seven million dinars, did one of you get anything? As far as I know, none of the MPs have won any nature. Social benefits to employees. Since when are those Members of the social class? The MPs are not getting any of that, but it is simple mathematics here about the Law on the Budgetary System to change items and spend money without purpose, outside the knowledge of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When we look at a government that proposes a budget like this, it's no wonder we have a situation like this in the National Assembly. With my amendment, I asked all four Deputy Prime Ministers to get as much money as the cabinets of the Prime Minister, because I don't see why they would need more money than the cabinet of the Prime Minister. The cabinet of the Prime Minister should unite the work of all ministries and all vice-presidents of the government. So, the same, even more advisors must have, professional associates, than the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister. Let's say the vice-presidents of the government have some business, but the vice-presidents of the government also have their own ministries. What do we do with that now? They spend money both as Deputy Prime Minister and as ministers. Let's take a look at what it looks like. He says the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister, here in the government that you can officially look at on the Government of Serbia's website, says that it is Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, in 2009, only the post of Deputy Prime Minister, that his cabinet should spend 72 million dinars. Should we read that there are 11 million for travel costs, for some services under the contract 13 million, for the material 4.5 million etc. Does this minister and vice-president of the government spend in the cabinet of the interior minister? She's wasting it. If he's getting two salaries, I don't know, I'd like to know, but I'm wondering if he can eat from two spoons at once. He can't. He shouldn't even have his own cabinet of vice presidents, he's had enough of the Ministry, so let him command there. The cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for the Power of European Integration. Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration and Minister for Science and Technological Development, writes on the government's website. Two cabinets again, two spoons again. He should spend Mr. Djelic 67 million as Deputy Prime Minister, as much as we'll see as a minister in his division. But where does Djelic lead us when it comes to European integration, where it leads us when we only unilaterally apply the trade agreement with the EU at a time of the global economic crisis. This is the road Djelic offers us. The next Deputy Prime Minister-Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development. It says here that the Deputy Prime Minister is for economic development. After the Sartid affair and stolen from the state almost a billion and a half dollars, it shows us what kind of economy Mr Dinkic is to us. Look, as Deputy Prime Minister, there's another spoon that's going to spend 59,750,000. The last Deputy Prime Minister who doesn't have a single ministry, Mr. Krkobic, who is to spend, no less or less, 50 million dinars, and for information, the entire cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is to spend 61m 578m. I'm not saying that that's not much in these times, but I can say that Cvetkovic seems less nimble than these four vice-presidents of the government. That is the problem, so I will repeat what I said and in the debate in principle, this budget is not the result of economic reality, but is the result of political vanity, ambitions, unfulfilled pre-election promises by small parties, with even smaller leaders, who are at high state functions and bright Serbia. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11795	I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. The session's work in the afternoon will continue with the debate in particular on the amendment to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic and the presentation of the first of the registered speakers of MP Zoran Krasic. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon part of the session, the morning part of the debate in detail on Article 5, section 3, by amendment submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11797	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. It is good that in this chamber atmosphere we can explain the essence of this amendment, so that the public in Serbia finds out what the idea of the amendment is. The idea of the amendment is essentially that if the cabinet of the Prime Minister is to spend some money in 2009, and it is proposed to be 61 million dinars, then there is so much to do with the cabinet of vice presidents covered by the amendment, which is the vice president who is not the minister at the same time. That's, I have to say, a really weird logic. So if that guy's illegally spending 61 million, let's let this other guy spend the illegal 61 million. The cabinets were created as one special category, several years ago when the Government Act was amended, and it was changed at a time when only one Vice President, Miroljub Labus, and later, as the number of Deputy Prime Ministers changed, it changed the number of cabinets. Then we came to some state administration organization, which is a state administration organization, where we have too many vice presidents, and too many cabinets and too many employees representing the cost. But, 61 million, if it's planned for this vice president, we have to deal with, today we've talked about, 60 million dinars that are being allocated through the Co-ordination Committee to resuscitate and address the housing needs of endangered citizens in the territories of the three municipalities, Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje. Then when you put it in that proportion, then you see that simply a healthy logic can't accept it that way. If the government is so organized, if there are already vice presidents, then we're sure there should be more modest funds for these cabinets, since obviously we can't avoid them now because they've become a legal category. So, despite my political disagreement that there are cabinets, I can't dispute the fact that they exist in the scale of the law, and that according to the law, there is an obligation in the budget to plan funds as a technical regulation, but we think that we can intervene and point to the necessity of one, which is to plan and predict far, far smaller means and use some healthy logic as a criterion. An example of this healthy logic is exactly what was set aside for buildings and buildings in those three municipalities in southern Serbia. However, the problem with this amendment is that it is an amendment without an oath. If the applicant of the amendment had signed at the end of the amendment - I swear by honor, face, reputation, holy Sava, God, computer, secretary, that would have been much more serious. Please don't laugh, because I have material evidence for everything I say. The applicant for the amendment is Mr. Arsic, until two months ago a member of the SRS, from two months ago a senior official of another party, a party that did not participate in the elections. He, like all MPs, resigned and made his mandate SRS available, and then someone put it all aside and questioned the legitimacy of work and the legality of decisions of the National Assembly. The day he decided to change ideology, he took both the computer and the secretary. We got the computer back, kept the secretary. But, okay. What do we do, there's facts. You can look all you want. This isn't the first time you've been out and told about it. We talked about it two months ago. We asked you to at least return the computer with which the parliamentary group was in charge. They took away three other party computers that were seduced as the primary asset of the SRS, the city board of Belgrade, three laptops, they don't return it. If you take into account how much we were owed by that Zoomul via the Inteza Bank, Madam Minister, illegally took credit, after a delayed loan, in the long term, you paid 100 and some million out of the budget for the election results, instead of paying back the loan, we are now getting some bills, extended credit as long-term until 2012 and we are blocked. I think it's a bigger problem, you know? You're not responsible for this. You just have to give one interpretation - does the Law on the financing of political parties allow the loan to be taken from the bank, especially banks with foreign capital, because then we conclude what is what. While you are here and participating in this debate, Madam Minister, I would draw your attention, and here I see there are several DS MPs who were in the National Assembly in 2001 -- that at that time the National Assembly, it seems to me, through the Administrative Committee, has made some decision that one of the heads of a parliamentary group, must return all the money that he has received in the name of travel expenses from a place where he allegedly resides to Belgrade, and he had an official apartment in Belgrade. You didn't hear me right. It's 93 years old. You might have problems. Take the stenogram. I'm very specific, you know. I'm very specific, you've made a decision, and then you know what's written -- whether you've realized it or not, a lot of people have been disgusted by that fact, by that late finding? So I still have to draw your attention to the fact that you have to keep an eye on the amendment and when someone submits the amendment -- what is the real background of that amendment, how much is it able to consistently fight for that amendment, how much through that amendment does it express its political position? Because, you know, he steals a computer, so he submits an amendment to you, and he says that some expenses are being settled, that some expenses are being reduced, and you're holding your head. I know you're holding your head, but you have to draw attention to Boris Tadic, too, that he's going to have a headache, because every day it's getting bigger and bigger, and it's a serious problem. The legitimacy of the work of this National Assembly has been questionable for several months. This extends to the legality of decisions, whether anyone participates or does not participate in the vote, or is present in the vote or not in the vote - it extends. So, I went out on behalf of the SRS to support every idea, no matter which MP to submit, to cut the costs of the cabinet, because it fits something you promised. You didn't swear, though, but you promised. You promised that at all levels you would make some organizational changes, which will ultimately have savings -- saving public funds. I don't see that savings here, because the 2009 budget proposal is bigger than what was planned for 2008. It's bigger than the budget, but, you know, if you say "saving," then it needs to be reduced. Not rights, because when we talk about cabinets, we don't have rights. We have employees' rights, their social security, etc., but when we talk about the cost of official travel, then there's no right -- whether Mr. Vice President will go abroad once or every day go abroad, it's already a reflection of the policy of your government. We believe that they should walk as little as possible, because when they go on these peace missions, then there is a big headache for the Republic of Serbia. Who knows what they're doing there? Do they twist their hands, do they poison them with some drugs -- they uncritically accept everything, everything. May I remind you of Eulex, and this operation called the State of Vojvodina? You've seen all these public events during the election campaign where the state's work ends, with signing, free action, Fiat, etc. was an election-propagand trick to trick citizens, how to get them to vote for someone again without knowing they were voting against their vital interests. It is becoming too much these days, more and more clear every day to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The day before yesterday, we actually saw that you don't want to single out for a child's extra-larger funding, for students, for talents, for athletes, that's what we've proven. You're more interested in something that's material value in terms of toner, toilet paper, etc., and less for these our children and what, if I may say, is a social group that needs to be respected. We've proven that, we're just moving on now and there's no need to repeat these things. I think you can come out here and say -- you know, there are so many employees in the cabinet, we have to respect their labour rights and guarantee them by budget. I agree, but those rights also exist in the employees of the shopping houses of Belgrade. Just to remind you that they've been here for 20 and a few days in tents outside the presidency building, they've just made the wrong entrance. Tadic walks into this side entrance, and he can't see them, and as a human, he's given two toilets, the Polish one, "Toi," you know the plastic one. Probably because of the time Depos organized the psychic council. It was summer then, so it wasn't those Toi nights and there were bigger problems with that park when that protest was over. So you have to approach citizens' rights in an objective way. They can't be citizens who happen to work in the public service, with first-class rights, and other employees should be second, third or last-class. I don't know in that nomenclature of yours that could be a category by letter. I have to draw attention to you, that what Mr. Tadic said at the ceremony in Subotica, I don't want to talk about what he said in the closed part, you know it best, I shouldn't give away my source of information, but in the public part it's said -- jobs have to be kept safe. If you keep them in the state service, you keep them in other businesses. Indemnify Minister Ljajic to be effective, to employ maximum labour inspection, to get people back to work, to annul those dismissal solutions. If the technological process allows or requires layoff, the right to be respected by that graduation - second place, eventually only severance and some rights to the bureau. If you go indiscriminately, then we'll have this situation, that every day the number of citizens who are going to lose their jobs will increase, and that at the same time we have an irrational spending of taxpayers' money for some cabinets, for some commissions, for some agencies, and even within each ministry you can find some of the economic positions, where you can certainly find some savings. But you resorted to another trick. You're saying now -- what we're proposing with the budget is far less than what the ministries asked for. I know? Why? They will always seek, according to their assessment, what is optimal and will always indicate -- these funds are necessary for normal functioning and fulfilling all functions and tasks that are within the ministry's jurisdiction. But, ma'am, it's a stereotype that's been appearing in all governments for 60 years, even when the Republic Executive was larger, when they were secretaries and later when they were ministries. It's always and all the ministries are looking for, so then the government, as a place where economic policy is created and run -- makes some adjustments. The government has taken a view of saving, we support this view of saving, but we would like to, if we should already give that support -- to see in cash that you are defined for savings. According to the amount of money and the numbers that you've put out here, we don't see the definition of saving at a price. We don't see it. I don't know two percent more than last year, so why don't you compare it to 2001 or 2000? Probably can't be compared to 2000, since you've changed the way you calculate a gross social product, but to compare it to 2001, so you've found some average coefficient on how to raise it and end it. Then you're going to say, yes, in the meantime, jurisdiction changed, so some new jobs came in. Well, you made up jobs, like you invented agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11798	Fifteen minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11799	I apologize for these 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11800	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Time is at the disposal of the ruling parliamentary group, Serbia is five minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how you do it, but I have a duty, as a serious man, to propose to some of you here to seek help. Sometimes you need help when you don't feel it and when your environment won't tell you, and it's conscious of that. We're able to endure a thousand times in 15 minutes a man who wants to show up behind a pay phone. That's no problem, but don't make it up when I'm not here. Make it up when I'm in the O.R. Namely, the dispute you're having, Mr. Krasic, against me over the loan, which the SRS has won and used for the campaign, so perhaps you're an MP for that, too, perhaps there wouldn't be enough room for you, is being held before the Economic Court before which you sought a temporary measure and compared to me. The court should have made a decision to get me back to the party, to give you that loan back, since you obviously can't do that. The court rejected that temporary measure. The second temporary measure you requested was for the bank to pay you back the credit card that the party used. The judge also refused that temporary measure. If you want to talk about the loan, you're in court. Don't make up that loan was some kind of robbery, farce, lie, deception. The loan costs a party a month 1.5 million dinars, and the party has about 14 million monthly incomes based on your mandates. I think it's a risk to a business that's been extremely paid off. Don't talk about that loan anymore. Let's wait until this trial is over. If in any way I'm guilty, if I've damaged you in any way, I can go back to the party, end it, and I'll leave again, because I can't take it anymore with you. You have a problem when you need to, and some of you are constantly picking on you, to explain your opposition to the SNS amendment. You have a problem, since then you're dividing as a person. You can't attack the amendment itself, because it's completely in line with what you're up for, and then you attack whoever suggested the amendment -- you don't like it, you don't like it, so when a man, in your opinion, is no good, neither is his amendment. If the amendments were to be assessed that way, the government could say to all of us in the opposition - you're not as good as people, you weren't wanted by the people, you didn't have enough votes, we're not going to discuss your amendments. Mr. Krasic, you have a huge identity crisis. You've come into office as vice president of the SRS, and now you think you should justify it for this speaker. I've spoken to your colleagues several times and you've climbed their heads and they'd love it if you couldn't talk as much as you say, so you don't yell as much as you yell, that you don't insult as much as you insult, but you feel like you're freed from some discipline. So far, there's been one clamp. The party president said you're not going out for a pay phone because you're taking part in his defense and you have a lot of work to do in defense, he said you're not going down to the O.R. at all. I knew why he said that and you avoided going out for a pay phone while I was in your party. Now there are no more brakes, now get out and it looks devastating. Now, I'm asking you, since you've gone into obstruction again, how are you going to justify tomorrow when we go to the budget vote? Now, I suggest you -- ease your attitude towards the budget and the government by tomorrow, when you will allow the vote, because tomorrow you will allow a vote on the budget, which is a perfectly normal and reasonable move. It is an unreasonable obstruction until then, and it is unreasonable to prevent 126 MPs from voting on the budget, exorcising your whim and making an obstruction to prevent the majority from making a decision. If you'd been like this while we were together, we might have stopped Vojislav Kostunica from forming a government. What do we get by that? What is it that 40 of you get by making a maximum of three days, and that's just you, Mr. Krasic, these others are more reasonable than you are, and that the deadline for the budget to be voted tomorrow in that drive of the macaque to the finish line? What does Serbia get out of it? What does he get... (President: National MP, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. I think I have four more minutes. What does the SRS get with it? This morning I listened very carefully to Mr Marinkovic, who presented something that I had already talked about in several interviews. Yes, exactly me, there is a danger that the International Court of Justice in The Hague estimates that the rights of Albanians have been so threatened, that they have the right to make their own state. Don't talk about it, sir, as a final act. Say - there is a fear, say - it can happen, don't say - it will. First, I'm not sure he'll judge, and secondly, what do you do now that you know he'll judge? You're still sitting in the bench and you're obstructing the budget. (President: Time. If we're sure that's the way it's gonna go down, let's fight it right now. However, I think that there is some hope and that it is wise to warn the state that this can happen, to warn a bad negotiator on behalf of Serbia, but never say: "It will judge us for sure, because we seem there are still opportunities to fight, and it seems to me, if you know that it will judge against us, that you do not fight very well against it. During this presentation, SRS MPs banged on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11802	Mr. Veroljub Arsic, replica of Mr. Krasic's exposure, and then Mr. Krasic, the replica, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11803	I think Mr. Krasic deliberately and tended to misread the amendment I submitted. The amendment did not refer to the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy and Social Action, but to all vice-presidents, meaning the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development and Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy and Social Action. I think Mr. Zoran Krasic felt called perhaps because I was talking about RIK, since Mrs. Krasic is a member of RIK. Mr. Krasic, I didn't even mention the amount of 34 million in position 416, so I don't know why this amendment made you feel called on the basis of my discussion. As for that permanent part of your exposure, when you mention the secretary, then I notice in you one look you had in '99 and 2000, Mr. Krasic, just like this. Every time you mention a secretary at this pay phone, you have that look. Mr. Krasic, I don't know if you're complaining about anything from 99 and 2000 or you're sorry about someone, but that's your problem. (SRS emissaries during this bench exposure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11804	Mr. Zoran Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11805	You see, when Bologna sees fit, how it turns out. First, it must be known that we did not ask for meat to return, but we asked for a delay in the mandatory payment of bills and contractual powers. We don't need meat. Why would they take my meat, someone come with some meat to sign something? The public in Serbia needs to know, Tomislav Nikolic is banned from crediting the SRS. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I will no more.) He says he won't anymore. He created a 68m-dollar SRS long-term commitment and triggered an SRS blockade. It is an integral part of the coup, because it promised that 60 SRS MPs would kidnap and that it would kidnap the Central Homeland Authority and thus threaten the defence of Vojislav Seselj, at the time the war in The Hague was conducted to force Vojislav Seselj to defend himself. That's true. The other thing, you'll look at the stenogram. We are not discussing amendments to the SNS here, because such a party has not participated in the elections, and I have delivered to you 17 times a report from the National Assembly site, where you can see which parties participated in the elections and which parties belong to the mandates. And you can join that, this part of the stenogram, as a contribution to the future initiative, and it's going to have to be a future initiative, because this is getting too difficult for the DS. Someone hijacks the mandate, comes out here and acts like some kind of legitimacy and some kind of legality. I read here and the oaths, I remember that he kneeled in the church when he took an oath, that he was loyal to the SRS, to patriotism, so help me God, but that's his problem, what do I have to do with it. I don't have that kind of problem, and I don't have a problem getting back to what happened before September 5th. We are looking for our mandates, the mandates entrusted by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the SRS. That's important. These are the mandates of the ideologies of the SRS. That's what it is, respected citizens. Let these stories turn out to be discussed. Another thing, please, why would someone from a party over there on a street consider what SRS and SRS MPs' strategy is in the National Assembly? All political parties represented in the National Assembly have submitted amendments to this budget law, both government and opposition. They've all put up with it. Why? Because the draft budget law is an extremely bad law. We want to cut those costs to make life bearable in 2009. It probably bothers some of us to resist that fight. We are not opposition to the people, we are opposition to the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11806	Mr. Paja Momchilov, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Piya has called before, although you are the head of the parliamentary group, when it comes to the replica, then Mr. Piya.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reluctant to participate in this kind of debate, and especially to go out on replicas. However, two things addressed to the SRS parliamentary group deserve any answer to be given. The first question is why do we insist on discussing the budget? Simply, we believe it is not allowed to hold a restrictive debate on the most important document this Parliament is bringing. On the other hand, the economic crisis that has already prevailed in the world is also a tsunami that is expected to affect and requires a comprehensive debate. Third, the legal deadline foreseen, which is November 1st, certainly respects and leaves enough space to be explored in detail in a quality and non-restrictive debate and to have something best for the citizens of Serbia. Another reason, which I now state, is that the draft budget in front of us is not suitable for the opportunities that await us in the coming year. Of course, if Madam Minister will agree and members of the government, I don't expect she will, but I'll back it up with some evidence. First, there is no evenly distributed budget savings. The congregation was saving. We have reduced the funds of the Assembly. But who's not saving? It saves neither the president of the state nor the group that's gathered in the government. If you look at the vice presidents of the government, over two and a half million euros will be spent next year, if you add it up nicely. It's not hard to put it together. On the other hand, if you want us to tell the truth, the budget's resources are not focused on the right priorities. Read what experts say economically and others. You're well told that agriculture needs to be invested. This is what Mrs Borka Vukic, in "Politica", made it clear to you, with other economists who are not the same political implementations. Furthermore, what is foolish, according to us in the SRS, is the insistence on giving up customs revenues by accepting a unilateral application of the trade agreement with the EU. All of these are reasons why we think it makes sense to have a quality discussion here. It is also true that we resent here that we do not adhere to the agenda and that the ways and arguments we make here are not appropriate for you. But don't forget, those examples we're serving can't even be found in the daily press, you can't even find them in the electronic media, they're hiding because of the blockade of their own kind. On the other hand, the most important thing for us is that it is delivered to us by the citizens of Serbia and most often not by those who vote for us. These are all reasons, for a smart man I think is enough, why we persist in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11808	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11809	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know why you're getting in the middle of something that I'm right about. At three o'clock today, RTS announced that you had paused, but not you, you don't know anything about the fact that the SRS parliamentary group in the session break agreed with the government to withdraw a number of amendments in order to vote on the budget. Now turn the story to that side. Don't, Mr. Momchilov, say you'll insist and insist. You don't know. You won't insist and persist. All they have to do is call you, tell you no more, say that Serbia has to have a budget and everything will be fine. I'm so sorry. Those who know, who are to blame for all this, they are silent. They let you fight, and then they'll call you and say no. What are you doing here? (During this presentation, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11810	Don't be angry if anyone's making a deal. It would be a good idea if you two could make a deal together. Mr. Martinovic first, then Mr. Vukovic, then Mr. Krasic. That's the order, but I'm really asking you to go back to the amendments. It is not good for Serbia to be the victim of a conflict between former and current radicals. That's not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Tomislav Nikolic was looking at me. He made a mistake in his last name. Maybe he accidentally said I was Marinkovic, but he was looking at me, and he was probably thinking about me. So, Mr. Nikolic, things like this, those who filed an initiative before the International Court of Justice knew in advance what kind of decision they were going to make, or what opinion they were going to give to the International Court of Justice. It may not be familiar to you, but in diplomatic circles, the thesis has been operated on since the time when our initiative, i.e. the initiative of Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, arrived at the UN General Assembly. I didn't make it up, if that's what you're so interested in. I just said what she's doing in diplomatic circles. After all, you boasted about voting for the SAA, that you had friends who teach international law at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, so ask them how our initiative is commented in these professorial circles? They'll tell you probably what I said. You see, Mr. Nikolic, one of our well-known writers, Aleksandar Popovic, wrote a comedy called "Bore Schneider Development Path". That development road of yours is also very impressive. When you passed from the People's Radical Party to Vojislav Seselj, you sent him a letter, if I'm not mistaken, you correct me, in which you said, "Please, Vojislav, receive us poor people into the SRS." In 1993, you again correct me if I am wrong, declared a Chetnik Duke by the same Vojislav Seselj, so perhaps some people went to war in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska and lost their lives there or were wounded by listening, among other things, to your very inspired and fiery talk about the need for the Serb people to live in a single state called Greater Serbia. You are now in the position of that Bible Emperor David, who began his career by guarding the cattle, and one day in the grass he found the crown of the emperor, and he sought lost donkeys. You in life, thanks to the Serbian Radical Foreigner and Vojislav Seselj, have received what you never dreamed of winning. Believe me, it's degutant to me to delve into it. I've told myself several times that I won't answer my word, no matter how much you provoke me with my eyes, by misquoting my last name, etc. Don't get upset, Mr. Nikolic, you'll get your chance to say it. You often have a habit of transferring us to the SRS why we listen to this or that SRS official. (President: Time. I'm done. As far as I know, there are a lot of young, educated people in SNS, possibly honest people, etc., so why don't you let them lead the SNS when you care so much about youth, education, perspectives, etc. Why are you asking for something else that you don't even allow yourself? Just to visit you on how much this party is resting on a single programming unity. Remember, Mr. Nikolic, and I believe you know, when you were last running for president of the Republic by the SRS, what kind of comment Alexander Vukic made on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11812	Mr. Jadranko Vukovic has a word. Excuse me, Mr. Jadranko, Mr. Nikolic has the advantage, wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11813	When you talk about the creation of the SRS, read some books and do not insult Mr Krasic and I. It was not by being admitted to the party by Vojislav Seselj, but by writing to him a letter that formed the SRS and proposed in the letter that we form a party, not by him to receive us, because he was then only the leader of the Chetnik movement. It's not funny, Mr. Krasic knows it better than you do, your youth can let you laugh at a lot of things, but by something you should skip, because it's the history of the SRS you belong to now, then just learn a little better. My life's journey is indeed the development path of Bora Schneider. What, I wasn't born in silk and velvet, I didn't have parents, I had to work, I had to develop on my own, and here I came to this point, and I'm satisfied with what I've achieved, and I'm proud of what I know, and I'm proud of what I'm still going to do for Serbia. You may not love me, and perhaps one day you will be known for talking about me from this pay phone, perhaps it will be all your credit for Serbia. I wish you a better future. In this party, your political ambition will be reduced to a minimum. You belong in another political party, in a bigger, more ambitious one, one that will win. You can stay with these, I haven't invited any of you, there are some I'd love to. I hear you've made a statement somewhere that I've called you. I didn't call you. I hear you said at the meeting of your committee in Ruma that I called you, and you boasted that you turned me down. I didn't call you, Mr. Martinovic. I don't have anything personal against you, you're a young, gifted man, and the way you laugh is how honest and honest you are and how uncomfortable you are. Many of you make me feel fatherly. Some of you hate me, some of you cause physical conflict, try to cause physical conflict with me. I'll take it all, you won't stand it all, you won't be able to, because here, look, how many of you are there to guide them, you six-seven, you'll ruin them clean. You are endowed with some hatred, you cannot even change what Vojislav Seselj commands you to do, literally convey every curse, every hatred, every lie, every deception. When did I disable the defense of Vojislav Seselj, Krasic? When did I kill Vojislav Seselj in The Hague? When did I influence him not to let him defend himself? When did I influence that he couldn't talk to you? (President: Time. ) And when did you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, decide to turn this assembly into a place where, instead of leading the assembly in advance, instead of being one of us, that all this misunderstanding, to present this election preparation as a chaos created by the former and present radicals? Why don't you stop it, Mrs. Djukic - Dejanovic? I do not mention your political party, for better or for worse, although it is involved in all of this in Serbia, even though it is involved in these agreements, although the courier service is with Ivica Dacic. And for you to interfere, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. That you're not equal to everyone and that we're not all equal to you, that you're always trying to prove to God that the radicals are right... (President: Time, Mr. Nikolic. Five minutes you're talking)... Only you can't get out of it, you can't express your opinion, you have a different opinion, but you're prevented by other obligations. You know, you didn't fast-track that incursion between you and me to establish any understanding. And you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, participate in this chaos, mostly you created it. (In the course of MPs' presentation, Nikolic, MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11814	Mr. Nikolic, you've said some qualifications for only your known reasons. You know best that everything you've said doesn't fit the truth. Please, I'm setting a break of ten minutes. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] We continue at 4:15 p.m. I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to me. [[After break – 16.15]] We're continuing our work. I would ask all of us to take care of the dignity of the congregation. An incident that was just a moment ago cannot serve the honor of all of us who participate in the work, and especially not the actors. I also had a conversation with Mr. Zivanovic and Mr. Nikolic. The heads of Parliament, that is, their deputies and I spoke. We estimate that there has indeed been a violation of dignity, that there is, so to speak, the contribution of both MPs to the atmosphere itself. Here, Mr. Nikolic wants to speak to you, and then I'll say what measures I've decided to take. So let's hear Mr. Nikolic first.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have violated the dignity of the National Assembly, I have reacted as my organism asked of me at that hour. I couldn't take it. I apologize to all of you, and I apologize to the citizens of Serbia. I just want to tell you that I'm able to endure a lot, that I've endured a lot already, but please, if you want me to stay on this apology and talk to you again and again as people, deal with me, not with my family, not with my wife, not with my mother, not with my children, not with my grandchildren. They're not to blame for my behavior. So, once again, Madam Minister, I apologize to you for all this has happened. I didn't react well, but I'd react this way in the future. It'll probably always be stronger than me. I'm not going to challenge anyone to a gesture like this, and I'm asking you not to challenge me again to a gesture like this, so I don't have to apologize again. Once again, I'm sorry, please. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11817	In addition to this apology you sent to the congregation, I also give you a reminder. Mr. Todorovic, please. I would also like, when Mr. Todorovic is finished, to speak to Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's clear now to everyone about these events, which essentially creates DS, what they're leading to. Yes, yes, DS. You are responsible for all this that is happening in the Serbian Parliament. Of course, those who are unable to behave civilly are also responsible. I'll just remind you of the fact that 10-15 days ago you had to invite one of your MPs to apologize to one of the MPs' groups, the Assembly, because he sent certain words to some MPs. Also, I will remind you that yesterday, the chairman of the DS Executive Board, Marko Djurisic, cursed Mother Zoran Krasic. You didn't do anything, not only did you not do anything, even Marko Djurisic didn't come out to apologize, and neither did the head of the parliamentary group. That's what it says about your relationship. This suits you, and by all accounts, you place certain information that brings certain people into a state of reduced accountability out of fear, possibly something will happen. Also, Madam Chairman, I know it can't be done in the Assembly, but it would be good if it could be determined whether someone is under the fact of alcohol or some other means. What the congregation can't cross over is physical harassment. We are here, sometimes we say harder or easier words, for various reasons, but it is solved in a way that has always been in this congregation, or at least always been. Therefore, it serves as a pay phone, to inform the MPs and to give his own measure to the chairman, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But if someone takes the right to solve this problem in such a way, it is already a problem that must be faced with both the law and those who are in charge. Where would it take us if all of us, who are hurt at one point, went to solve these problems the way we know and how we can. But I guess that belongs to a long time ago. Yet people have managed to build a certain system through all these years that prevents everyone from solving problems the way he feels and how he thinks he should do. I mean, Madam Chairman, that your decision, which you've made, is not appropriate to the act that has been done, and you think about it, because if you'd acted the right way yesterday, if you hadn't gone over it so easily, this wouldn't have happened today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11819	I would like to ask you, Mr. Zivanovic, because I am informed by completely neutral MPs, that it is often that Mr. Nikolic is told certain contents which, apparently, irritate him, that you do not do so anymore, please. I suggest we move on with our work. Mr. Jadranko, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have answered Mr. Nikolic's line. I wanted to draw his attention that he's been going out for this pay phone for two days and he's talking about some deals, how we're going to blow the budget, vote for the budget. I don't know anything about that, Mr. Nikolic, and I don't know why you're burdening yourself. If you vote, you vote, we decide how the party's top decides. I don't understand your role within DS and Mrs. Hope Kolundjia at all. That's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Nikolic, I haven't heard what happened, but I have to distract you. I told you about this pay phone, what your children and your grandchildren thought was ugly, let it be my son's only child. So that's what I'm saying. You hit on me, the only son, and you're sensitive. You, Alexander Vukic and your Justice. I repeat, you cannot behave incorrectly. You move your head, Jorgenka, and you have children, so you should behave a little bit more politely. So, I saw Mr. Nikolic pull a man's hair. You said you were a lion two days ago here. The lion is the emperor of animals, he doesn't go behind the back of a cat, Mr. Nikolic. That's very ugly. That's why I reacted. I didn't react to pushing with you, I didn't fight, I didn't think there was an incident. It's not nice to come near and pull a man's hair. If you wanted something, you could have said, come out for a pay phone. I saw that, and the incorrect Mrs. Comic saw nothing, just a verbal duel, etc. Madam Chairman, you're quite correct. However, I can see that these on the side have much greater influence and this is incorrectly referred to this high house. Act right, we'll act right. So, Mr Nikolic doesn't need to tear down Boris Tadic's regime here by attacking Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and Ivica Dacic. Have him strike down Boris Tadic and then I'll trust him to tear down Boris Tadic's regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11821	National MP Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 5th edition of the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(6) of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Budimirovic. Please don't knock.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11822	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on the basis of article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on behalf of the parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" of the Serbian Progressive Party, submitted an amendment to Article 5 of Section 3rd and 4 concerning the allocation of funds from the cabinet budget of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development. The government says for this kind of draft budget law it's restrictive. However, the SNS sees it as wasteful, and good evidence is precisely this division 3, in which budget funds are allocated to the cabinets of the president and vice-president of the government. In the media, we heard Prime Minister Cvetkovic's statement, which reads: "Citizens will not starve, but we will have to seriously approach the spending of every dinar, both in the budget and in people's pockets." It is evident that this statement applies only to the citizens of Serbia, while it does not apply to a massive government. In addition to being a country with the largest number of ministries in the region, we have a case here that needlessly increases public spending and multiplys the state administration. We have a minister who is also Deputy Prime Minister. For the cabinet of Mladjan Dinkic, as Deputy Prime Minister, 59,795,000 dinars were allocated, and 22,849,363,000 dinars for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The amount foreseen for Mladjan Dinkic, as deputy prime minister of the government, is almost the same as for the Prime Minister, whose cabinet has higher powers and obligations. As the government can call itself responsible, when the budget provides for the president and vice-presidents of the government to be allocated about 2m euros, which says the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister are the result of political vanity and a desire for self-relamation, all on the burden of Serbian citizens. Instead of providing new jobs for the money, Serbian citizens will be fired and all to achieve the interests of ministers who put their interest ahead of the interests of Serbian citizens. The SNS believes it is unacceptable, in terms of the economic crisis, to increase public spending and to multiply the state administration, and therefore the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary club will not support this draft budget, because we have Serbia's citizens' interests first priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11823	The word is Mr Damjanović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, yesterday I presented several things that are absolutely 100% correct. I thought that this country, and the Prime Minister and all other institutions against corruption, bribery, crime in this country. I felt that my obligation was, both moral and human, to bring out certain things, how the poorest Roma people were exploited. Last night I got phones from a team of gentlemen threatening to sue me. You're suing me, I have all the elements and facts of what you've done, and I've brought it up. However, I was on my way today, and when I returned, I received a message. I do not believe that in this country, and especially in this House, MPs who enjoy immunity, can be threatened in such a reckless way. Are we protected in this country if we defend the interests of citizens and of this country or not? I'd like you to let me read what messages I'm getting. Madam Chairman, please forward, I'll give you the phone number now. The phone is 061/280-1348. What did I get? "Employee, don't wave, you'll stay in the waves." You laugh, you laugh yesterday, you defend a criminal. Is DS and everyone else supposed to be defending crime or should we be in crime? Don't, please, this is serious stuff. I am the MP from the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj list. We've been elected by the citizens. We're defending this country's interest here, this home and the citizens and the poor in this country, and I'm getting messages like this, and you're laughing. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11825	Mr Damjanovic, the phone threat will be notified to the MUP and all the measures needed to take will be taken, and most urgently. Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11826	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as far as the last few amendments are concerned, are characterised by one thing: they are generally proposing to remove funds from those segments of this country or the executive authority that should generally promote European values and introduce European standards in Serbia. Now, what's interesting is that they are proposed by those who have come to know their commitment and affection for European values, European integration, European principles and then ask one objective question: whether they are serious and whether they should be commented. In any case, when it comes to the government's determination to introduce these standards and these principles in this country, then the next conclusion is being imposed, it seems to me that in the last eight years, no resolute state body, which has dealt with this problem, has justified the purpose of its existence, perhaps not in general, but to the greatest extent, on the one hand. On the other hand, the objective question arises whether the money they have spent so far had the right to spend. Is the money they need to spend in perspective supposed to be trusted? This my suspicion of the intentions of certain state authorities I will try to illustrate through one example, through an example that is certainly interesting. Madam President of the Assembly, I would ask you and I would certainly use my right to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 226, I would ask you to refer a stenogram of this discussion to the Government, because I will, in parallel with the discussion, eventually seek certain answers, or information from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I want to discuss is how much government authorities in the country have dealt with essentially regional development, that is, economic development, although they have received a considerable amount of funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget for these intentions. I'm certainly not going to get out of the context of what's basically interesting for us, or for us, it should be interesting, for the world you're looking for, the serious and responsible world, and that's certainly interesting, that's the area of energy. When it comes to energy, how much was this country involved in investigating alternative energy sources, or renewable energy sources. That no one can dispute, however many individuals try to be absolutely in the context of our development, which is even, regional, and what is in general, economic development and reconstruction of this country. Serious countries in Europe and in the world have paid a lot of attention to this matter, and this country should all be dedicated for at least two reasons. On the one hand, it is the fact that investment levels in this area exceed modesty, i.e. to be concrete, say, that the value of investment in one megawatt's wind generators is over 1.2m euros. If anyone listens seriously, compares the numbers and takes them into account, he can and should understand how much in the perspective, if this country were seriously concerned, it could take this country. Then, Madam Minister, we could objectively talk about the development components of our budget. On the other hand, what the state is keeping quiet, I don't know how ready it is to face this problem, and it is a problem that we will have in perspective and in 2009 with the electricity system and supplies, and all because of the fact that it is part of Serbia's electricity system in Kosovo and Metohija, and because of the fact that institutional separation begins, but completely, the separation of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia, we will not be able to cover our domestic needs with that system. In the following year, in the years ahead, the electricity we spend will certainly be expensive, first of all we won't have enough in our country, we'll have to import it, and certainly for our economic opportunities in the coming years and in the next period it won't be good. What I'm trying to do, this example, is basically how much the government, or the executive body of this state at the republican level, has been acting obstructively on the initiatives of certain local or regional organisations, or local authorities. In fact, in the municipality from which I came a few years ago, some studies and research were started and were involved in the Ministry of Science, Municipalities and certainly Entel, a company within the Energoproject in Belgrade. I mention deliberately those who participated, given that this year, that is, in the budget for next year, the Ministry of Science is one of the three branches that was objectively denied for a necessary part of the money and funds. So the entire research was funded by the Ministry of Science and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden. The project looked at the possibility of installing a wind generator in the area of Vlasina. What's interesting is that at the time of the study, the initiative launched local leadership. Back then, the SRS was in power down in Surdulica. The results of the survey only appeared on one occasion and this, imagine where, were published at the Pernik Business Fair, in the Republic of Bulgaria. From then on, it's an absolute moratorium, and absolutely no one is in a position to access data on studies. But it's interesting that the results of the interrogation are not controlled either by the Ministry of Science or by the municipalities, the Ministry of Science, which was commissioned and requested, but also by the heritage in a very rude and corrupt way, the one who did the research, it's the Entel Company. Why do I say that now? Because it's serious state data and those who have it in their possession can be pretty good at cashing them out. I was talking about the value of investments relating to such surveys and the possibility of making investments, i.e. the realisation of these investments in this area. It is very interesting that the state does nothing to make such capital available to itself and that in the period ahead of us, the pre-investment period for those who want to invest is reduced and that in the territory of southern Serbia, the Pcinj County, the territory of the Surdulic municipality, allows all interested and potential investors to come to the test results, so that they can be sure that the effects of their investment will be restored. It's a country-wide relationship that's very irresponsible and irresponsible. I think that in the last few days, and especially speaking of this budget, we have just pointed out that there is no commitment of the state to do serious things, that is, there is no commitment of the state to show their determination that they are ready to deal with in one serious, modern way, a way that has meaning and its essence, has its own outcome, by developing this country. In this context, I'm going to ask the government one more question, which is why they're indolent in relation to the fact that as far as the results of the tests in the fields of alternative sources or renewable energy sources are concerned, they don't have the results of the tests they paid for, what money they spent on? Why is it not possible for certain investment ventures to be realized and realised in southern Serbia? Why can't people in southern Serbia get government support for serious projects and initiatives that are local or regional? Why does the government generally act as an obstructive element when it comes to this kind of thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11827	Mr. Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11828	Madam President, Madam Minister, this is an amendment that is scheduled to change the resources of the Office for Sustainable Development. If you have carefully looked at the amendments, there are several other amendments concerning also the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas. The amendment is interesting, simply the existence of that office is interesting and I will talk about it with two aspects. The Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, spoke of the budget, said primarily that the budget is a budget of savings, development and social. Let's analyze this savings budget first. If you look at the structure of the government and if we look closely at the budget, within the government, agencies and organisations that are part of the government, we have the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, the Spatial Planning Agency, the Republic Development Institute, the Development Fund. The main task of the Office for Sustainable Development is to prepare programming and planning documents. If the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is unable to do so, then it is obvious that savings should be made by taking away the post from the ministry. If the Space Planning Agency isn't able to work, then we need to talk about it. When you look at it, there are at least five organizations or ministries that have several hundred employees, which primarily deal with the aspect of planning and the problems of sustainable development, and then we form a special office that with ten or fifteen or twenty employees should do the same. What kind of savings can we talk about if we have in five or six different places an identical function? Then we should probably create a seventh body that will coordinate and establish coordination between all of these bodies that do exactly the same thing. And when you have one function in a number of different places, you know that there's always the possibility that the end result is something that nobody wants. When we discussed budget rebalancing, I said it was a very good thing that unlike some previous budgets, this budget has two parts. All costs are divided into two members of the budget, that is, Article 5 and Article 6. One is software, and the other is a line of the budget. In the budget itself, you have that the programme part of the budget represents a process of broader public finance management reform, with the aim of increasing efficiency, taking much more account of the spending of public funds. Programme budgeting implies that, on the basis of strategic objectives and relevant policies, a limitation is established for individual categories of expenditure. The programme budget is a more transparent way to monitor budget expenditure. The key assessment is related to the realisation of the budget itself and the text itself is absolutely impeccable. It's a thing we fully support. Is there anything in there that's controversial? Only one little thing, the programme part of the budget: the Ministry of Faith, the Ministry of Local Self-Government and State Administration, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Trade. We're going to set our programming goals to the Ministry of Faith, and through the Ministry of Faith, we're going to control measurable targets, to determine what we're going to do here. The NIP ministry is not part of the programme budget, the Ministry of Economy is not part of the programme budget, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Agriculture are part of the line budget, there are no measurable targets or there is a problem who stands or who heads those ministries. It can fool the total gross amount or total position of these ministries. There's no need to make a mistake, and the Ministry of Education, first of all, has the means to pay all the employees in education, and when it's announced, then you see that the idea is good, but that realisation has significantly annulled the effects of this positive idea. Therefore, if you analyse the part that is related to line and programming and if we only analyze how many identical functions there are in different ministries or in different bodies, then the whole budget is far from a budget that can be praised by savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11829	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11830	I use this amendment as a reason to remind myself of the beginning of the amendments to the 2009 Budget Law. As one who has not traded with this budget and its amendments to it, Tomislav Nikolic said first that we will not be a distraction to adopt the budget within the legal deadline. In my first address on the amendment to Article 1, we announced our gratitude to Ms. Diana Dragutinovic for adopting on behalf of the Government four of our amendments, three immediately, one with a technical correction and, believing that I would not even have the opportunity to speak more about the amendments, I essentially included all our amendments to the Budget System Act. Yesterday, the debate on amendments Tomislav Nikolic began with a question -- if there is an agreement, why are we working Saturday and Sunday, and if there will be no adoption of the budget, then why are we wasting time, because the debate on it is becoming groundless. In translation or clearer, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I address you, that we are angry if the agreement is established, on the contrary, we are looking forward to an agreement with all parliamentary groups that Serbia will get the budget before the end of this year, because it is a message of security for all citizens and a message that we are all mature enough to know why we are here and why we are doing this job. I have another question, and for the first time I'm coming out of the economy for this pay phone. Dear citizens, fellow MPs, there are among us those who think not that they are the center of the world, but that they are the center of the universe itself, that the sun is rising and setting, that they are the interpreters of parliamentary democracy and that only they have the right to which topics are on the agenda, which language is used, when someone has to say, that they are the owners of other people's smiles and other people's tears, etc. and so on. They think they get the right to do so in the Republic and other elections, but not all of them, but just them, and everyone else, me and all of you here, and the citizens who sent us here, serve as a decor and proof of that power, so when they're cursed, they need one punishment, and when they curse, they need another punishment. I'm daily exposed to not throwing away, directly harassing the gentleman who also caused Tomislav Nikolic today. I've never complained to either of you presidents, to anyone, not even to my fellow MPs. Today, at three o'clock, he came in shouting out loud and calling his names and Tomislav Nikolic, both my colleagues and me personally. There's no Mr. Jadranka. And me, Mr. Jadranka, as a mother who behaves like that. Not only do I have children, I act like a mother who has an understanding of other people's children. Do those who think they're the center of the world, that the rest of us have some kind of tolerance? Apparently they don't think we do. I'm happy that I inherited some of my DNA traits that many people have, average, normal, but I'm a very lucky person that I didn't have anyone to inherit from or in life to develop two traits called hate and envy. The fact that I do not have these two qualities has led me not to talk to you today about the almost impossible conditions of operation in this congregation. I want to, and that's why I'm mentioning this incident today in this light, that this is really the last time that for the same behavior there are different arches, that we're all here not to provoke each other and argue, because citizens won't have a smaller course, not a lower price, not a safer future. We are here to adopt the budget and in this sense I look forward to the agreement of every parliamentary group with the government, in whose name Mrs Dragutinovic is doing this job seriously and responsibly, as well as the parliamentary group of Tomislav Nikolic Advanced Serbia. Thank you, everyone. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11831	Ms. Milica Vojić-Markovic, then Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11832	Thank you, Madam President. I may have picked up at the last minute, but I just wanted to clear up some of the two things that maybe the viewers are following, and because of us here in the O.R., it would be important to clear them up. Mr. Stevanovic spoke and what he was saying was fine, but it seems to me it would be important to clarify that it was two projects, and that the first project was paid by Minister Aleksandar Popovic at the time, that the results of the survey would be presented on January 28th. The second project is the so-called project. Project FP-6. It's a European Union project. It's still going on. Both of these projects are actually done by the Institute for Multidisciplinary Studies. So, just to be clear, it's clear to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11833	The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11834	I'm reporting for this amendment, because there are at least 13 reasons why it would be necessary to remove the Minister of Hydra's pockets, which are loaded like a ship, and the citizens are empty as the left part of the Assembly until they're called to vote. Here are 13 reasons why Mr Dinkic could not possibly get an extension of his administration. First, the fraud of the century about the distribution of free shares worth 1,000 euros. Second, responsibility for repealing the concession for the construction of the Horgos-Požega highway. The third reason is to prevent investors from privatising JAT and RTB Bor. Fourth, a constant obstruction, even now, of the energy deal with Russia. Fifth, a known case of Kristo and malversion in the public enterprise "Airport" Belgrade. The sixth, an increase in budget expenditures by setting up new public enterprises, instead of privatising existing ones, which directly interferes with other ministries' work. Seven, responsibility for shutting down Serbian banks and preventing Russian banks from entering our market. He didn't just lie, he also had promises that he used for marketing purposes, and then he forgot. Eight, tax cuts for employers hiring new workers. The ninth, higher and uniform salary for educators in preschool institutions in the territory of all Serbia. Ten, bigger premiums for farmers. Eleventh, the stability of the dinars. Twelve, inflation to 10%. Thirteen, an increase in economic growth. In 2009, economic growth fell from 6.5% to 3%. For the cabinet of Mladjan Dinkic, as Deputy Prime Minister, 59,795,000 dinars were allocated, and 22,849,363 for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. So Dinkic made his dream come true and became a Caliph instead of a Caliph. For his cabinet he gets the same as Cvetkovic for his own. In one of our last speeches, because at the end of the year, to you who are actually the only reference, I mean the citizens of Serbia, to whom we owe every explanation, because the people of Serbia are institutions, and all of us here together are necessarily the evil that, thank God, is transitory, I can't help but look back at what's happening and what I've heard from you citizens, in passing and encounters. I have the rare pleasure of belonging to a party of ordinary people, and I am touching for all sorts of people's comments and objections. They're asking if there's going to be a New Year's Eve at all? That's the impression they got, because an incompetent and irresponsible government only sends catastrophic messages, about actions that we don't even talk about. The budget was 45 days late, and the government played a role in transferring responsibility to the national representatives, both indirectly and to the people. Why wasn't the budget adopted? Who's to blame? In the end, the people will be charged with it. Where there's no difference between truth and lies, where there's no belief and ideology, there's only an account. The head of the parliamentary group of this coalition light, Nada Kolundzija, calculated in the manner of a top-level statistician that there were 1,272 advertising of damage to the Rules of Procedure in this assembly and that 10 working days and 50 million dinars were spent. Certainly expensive, but almost insignificant compared to the monthly salaries of directors, board members and cabinets of these figures from the ruling party. What Mrs. Hope forgot to mention is that these violations of the Rules of Procedure actually referred to life issues of the type of problem in Kosovo and Metohija, Eulexa, the Separatist Statute of Vojvodina, the ratification of the interstate contract between Russia and Serbia, NIS and the pipeline, the global financial crisis, the robbery of public enterprises by so-called so-called. Managers and board members, which is often just a euphemism for criminals. In the absence of the right agenda, the agenda for the people, life topics could only be discussed by advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. This government was created by a simple accounting operation, the addition of grandmothers and frogs, but in it the interest of these "grandmothers and frags" multiplied so that the government no longer knows any mathematical surgery other than seizure, and that of its people. Mr. Vucelic says well in the introduction of the Pecata - with the will of the ruling majority, the Assembly planned almost two full months this summer. The government flew for a month. It's modest. The government's phone sessions haven't been held either. We had more defiling sunken ministers in front of us this fall. With the exchange -- relaxedly, our executive and legislative authority went to meet the world's financial collapse. At the very peak of the global financial crisis, the government has only ruled a team to monitor the events. No one in God's name has ever done anything. With a 45-day delay, the government submitted the draft state budget to the Assembly. Now the government is demanding that the parliament, in order to make up for all their missed, works in three shifts. The media, of course, is helping with that list. Those journalists who have not agreed to help the authorities, who are harshly deluding their own people, are being scrawny, marginalized, exposed to such mediocrity attacks, earlier noisers of each party in power, that they simply have to withdraw and leave themselves. The scum and proscration in the position of power, as if it were a recommendation today, not a distraction to progress. As they release or systematically drive some of them crazy by eventually firing themselves, the authorities who have two hours of summer rain from education, intelligence as amoebe, and the character about as camels, get a chance to continue to make negative selection, surround themselves with similar ones. Similarly, she looks forward to it, so some autonomist editor, who doesn't know the palaceizations, sounds more natural than the "retrend" and "do" but "want," certainly mind journalists who think with their heads and respect the state and the Constitution of the state where they live and work. The last example of the violent establishment of media darkness is the shift of young and talented journalists on the Vojvodin TV, with a bizarre explanation -- not to speak with an accent suitable for Vojvodina. So, on Vojvodina Radio, there's supposed to be a duchess to be spoken. The same ones who are nationalized equating with Nazis, in the manner of the demented Nazis, are firing journalists because of the pro-Serbian accent, and the next stage is probably -- to throw everything out with their last name on it, so they can introduce the one with chi -- the giant. The foreplay of every political anti-natural society with the people is the turning off of light. The media darkness has already occurred, and you can watch from light examples on television - 480 hours of wedding, changing women, that famous pedophile - watch your mother, choose your daughter, with an educational part of the information program, where Minister Mladja, who looks like the new wave of Santa Claus, demonstrates that we are going to fight the world economic crisis - with artificial snow on the Kopalnik. It's easy for a man to ski and wave, but the strangers he plans to bring won't come, because they've already started saving even when buying Christmas presents. Since the Young One has lost contact with reality, perhaps there should be some real-estate advisor in this cabinet or someone who is, as the President of the Assembly or myself, qualified to work with persons who have damaged the test of reality. Citizens of Serbia, don't let those who want to pull Serbia into ruin and disaster of victory. Serbia, dear citizens of Serbia, is only God and yours. So, at the end of all this, I am asking for information from you, Madam President of the Assembly - what is happening on Vojvodina Radio, why are journalists being fired and whether a similar process may continue, so that the idea of Serbia's total decommissioning as a state is realized, through its bringing it down to five autonomys -- Belgrade, Sandzak, the Low Area, Shumadi and Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11835	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vuceta Toskovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(6) of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11836	Dear Madam Minister, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in his explanation of the amendment submitted by Mr Vuceta Toskovic, as well as the parts of the amendment submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party regarding the 2009 draft budget, I would like to point out that the objective of the amendments submitted was to reduce costs. We know what awaits us all in 2009, and we have experienced this in the last quarter, that is, the last quarter of 2008, so in agreement with all the records and problems that we are expected in 2009, the SNS Parliament Club has, by submitting amendments once again to potential and stress, tried to reduce in part the costs that the Government can reduce or which can totally deny that and do so. Thus, Mr Toskovic, in the amendment to Article 5, divided Chapter 3.7 of his amendment by his amendment, asked for a job to be deleted by a special authority, and a body already in existence with the Government, i.e. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do, i.e. to deal with the government's information affairs. There are probably a large number of people in that body, people who could do this job under greater control and automatically reduce the cost of budget parts. It is certain that the planned 2009 budget is very unreachable, given that, once again, the gross social product, we are also convinced that all economists dealing with this problem point out that the budget, that the interest, that the debts will be in most parts than 60% related to the gross domestic product, i.e. the social product, so that a reduction in the cost item for all ministries is necessary. In this story, we did not just deal, as one of the representatives of the traveling circus points out - to abolish some rights and obligations related to Europe. I must point out that one of the speakers from that traveling circus says this: "Citizens, lock yourself up, come to you as well." Citizens, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on behalf of all of us, I apologize - turn off your televisions, so that part of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not come to you as well. When the traveling circus and part of the Chukadzhiev family are seriously dealing with the 2009 budget problem, it would not be within the framework of the amendments that Miss Jelena made to tell the story of the windmills and Don Quixote. I thank you again and apologize to all the viewers. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11837	Thank you, Mr. Rogovic. First he wants the word Mr. Martinovic, and then you will. By amendment, Mr. Martinovic, that's how I figured it out? Yeah. Here you go. Leave it for your colleague up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11838	Indeed, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you always make me laugh when I go out for this pay phone. You're always warning me that I have 15 minutes, so I know, I've read the Rules of Procedure just as much as you do, there's no reason to always remind me of that. I'm not going to use words that insult the dignity of the National Assembly, I don't think I've ever done that. I just want to find out that these citizens who sit in this phantom parliamentary group are very nervous, I don't know why. They always need to talk about how honest they are. It always reminds me of a Polish folk saying that when a guest comes to your house and talks about his honesty, count the spoons immediately. The amendment was also submitted by a conquering citizen, from whom the SRS made a political figure, who, if I am not mistaken, was a member of the city traffic council in Novi Sad, and who one night woke up and realized that he no longer liked anything in the SRS except one thing - he liked the parliamentary mandate. I don't want to talk about them anymore. As for the Office for Media Cooperation, you, Mrs Dragutinovic, predicted a total of 71,323,000 dinars for the government service, which was founded in 2005. The office, under a regulation set up -- should deal with informing the public about the activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and with internal information within the government itself. I told you today, Mrs Dragutinović, when I talked about the travel costs of the President of the Republic - that you should have defined these costs in terms of the results achieved by the President of the Republic, so if he achieved good results in the previous period, and you give him more than what you had foreseen in the budget, but if he did not achieve good results, and apparently did not, then the question is which criteria you used when you came to the figure to say to the President of the Republic should be allocated in 2009 to 43 million dinars for his official travels. Now I'm wondering how you got the figure that the press co-operation office should give just over 71 million dinars. How did the Office inform the public of the government's work in 2008? I'll just remind you of a few episodes that talk about it. Remember, when the SRS organized a big rally in February this year in front of the former Federal Assembly, now the House of the National Assembly, how many times the media under government control reduced the number of those present. And it happened later, when the SRS organised a rally against the dictatorial regime, Boris Tadic, and in connection with the anti-constitutional and illegal arrest of Radovan Karadzic. And then the media, under government control, several times reduced the number of present and completely mistranslated to the domestic and world public what actually happened at that rally. The media under government control did everything to hide that one of the participants at the rally, Ranko Panic, was brutally killed because of the excessive use of police force and only later, when SRS MPs spoke of it in the Serbian Parliament, Minister Ivica Dacic had no place to go and had to educate a commission to investigate all the circumstances of the case. The government-controlled media, Mrs Dragutinovic, have completely deceived the public of Serbia and related to the arrival of Mission Eulex to KIM. You remember that all the media under government control, starting from national television to daily newspapers, insisted that Eulex at KIM come under UN Resolution. We have proved to you here in the debate on the government's trust that there was absolutely no resolution, that only a presidential statement was adopted. The essence of the presidential statement is to welcome Belgrade and Pristina's efforts to calmly address the KIM problem and nothing else. No single sentence mentions the Eulex mission, not to mention the fact that the mission will replace the complete mission of Unmika to KIM, which was established by Resolution SB 1244. Should I remind you, Mrs Dragutinovic, of the fact that your colleagues in the Serbian government have made completely conflicting statements about the impact of the global economic and financial crisis on the Serbian economy? Remember, first of all, Bozidar Djelic said, thanks to the fact that Serbia is not an EU member, that this global crisis will completely bypass us, not that it will not have negative consequences, but will have a beneficial fact on the Serbian economy. A few days later, you gathered together, you gathered facts, you took away, you saw things standing, and you came to the conclusion that the global economic crisis, unfortunately, would hit Serbia as well. Then the media under government control persistently avoided informing the public that every day in front of the National Assembly building in front of the Serbian government building, citizens, dissatisfied with the economic situation in which they were dumped by the government's poor economic policy. These are just some facts that talk about how the Office for Media Cooperation has affected the creation of a media picture of what is happening in Serbia. I said, Mrs Dragutinovic, several times, but it seems that the Serbian government has persistently ignored it, you keep telling citizens, not you personally, but your colleagues in the Serbian government, that because of the severe economic crisis, Serbian citizens should tighten their belts. At first glance, that message is quite logical, even justifiable. But when you tell someone to tighten their belts, if you're a bit of a moral person, then first you need to start from yourself. I don't mean you, Mrs Dragutinović, I deeply respect you and appreciate you sitting here in the National Assembly during the debate, unlike some of your colleagues who walked here, texted, tossed to the MPs, etc. When I say, I don't mean Diana Dragutinovic personally, but the Serbian government, don't identify yourself with them. It is obvious that the Serbian government is doing nothing to tighten the belt. All those powerful services, including this press co-operation office, all those major agencies, all those large ministries, all the very special organizations that existed since 2001 to this day will be alive and healthy, thanks to this government of Serbia in 2009. You didn't predict the abolition of any ministry, no agencies, no offices, no offices. On the contrary, we have shown you in principle a debate on the budget that you have defined for these budget users, as well as for various cabinets, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the first, second, third and fourth prime ministers, significantly more financial resources in 2009 than in 2008. This is a bad message you send to Serbian citizens because the state and state apparatus are doing nothing to ease these consequences of the economic crisis. It is clear that you place all the burden of the economic crisis on the citizens with this budget. The state will be just as big, just as wasteful, as much in 2009 as it was in 2008. I told you, Mrs Dragutinovic, that it is a great example of how you started to explain Serbia's 2009 budget. You, as one courteous lady, have begun your debate with one apology and I understand that. You have apologized to the citizens of Serbia and to the MPs for the fact that the Serbian government is 45 days late, that 45 days after the legal deadline, it has submitted the budget to the assembly procedure. This gesture of yours is politically correct, but it is unfortunate, Mrs Dragutinovic, which tomorrow the Serbian citizens will have no one to apologize to, or their apology will have no one to hear and respect, when because of the difficult situation they are in, among other things and the guilt of this government, they will not be able to pay taxes, they will not be able to pay various administrative and judicial fees, when they cannot pay tuition to their children or pay treatment to themselves or to their sick parents. You, as the government, have "drawn" out of this whole situation with one apology, but tomorrow in 2009, Serbian citizens will hardly have anyone to apologize to. For example, this press co-operation office, including these other offices, especially these agencies, was a good example of how ready the Serbian government is to tighten the belt. You could have shut down some agency. The EU itself has been telling you through its reports that these agencies have not produced any results since they were established. Read the Council of Europe's report on Serbia's progress since 2001 to date. Many words of criticism are addressed to the work of both the ministries and the government, especially at the expense of a number of agencies. If what the opposition is telling you in the Serbian Parliament is not enough, if you are indeed Europeans, what are you showing yourself, why did you not respect at least one argument from what your alleged friends and allies from the Council of Europe say to you? We read to you here, I read to your colleague, Mrs Malovic, the opinion of European judges on a set of judicial laws that you delivered. No sign of any European standards. Many respected law professors have told you that what you propose in your laws is not good. The professional public, judges, prosecutors, citizens have sent you a series of letters, e-mails, etc. In which you have been asked not to do what you do, and you have trampled it all, and you have brought these judicial laws to God, you have even forced your messengers, which is bordered by political perversion, to vote against the amendments they have submitted themselves. In such an environment, we are trying to adopt the 2009 budget. Indeed, Mrs Dragutinović, your message that no citizen will take this seriously. The citizens will tighten the belt, not because of your messages, but because the force of economic necessity will force them to do so. Keep in mind that there are limits to this people's patience and tolerance. Do not overdo what are the limits of people's patience and people's humiliation. Don't get carried away by the fact that the EU will protect you from people's anger. I should not remind you that Greece, not only an EU member, but also a member of the NATO Pact, nor the EU, nor the NATO Pact, have managed to protect the Greek government from the Greek people. You, gentlemen, are far from the EU, although NATO is a little closer to the pact, but you are not yet a formal member, so as the EU has failed to protect the Greek government from the Greek people, believe me, it will not protect you from the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11839	Member of the 5th Division of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2nd point 6. Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, then Mr. Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11840	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, following these amendments submitted by the MPs of this party of common sense, who apparently began their pre-election campaign in a way that is unique to themselves, that is, how this Atlantic shooting star thinks political life should take place in Serbia. They've invested over twenty amendments, at least fifteen of which, according to the government and the due diligence, against or against the law, which speaks of the competence of the parliamentary group itself, or perhaps suggests that the amendments are submitted solely for the purpose of submitting the amendments. Let's work, make it harder, so the budget doesn't come in. We, of course, as MPs, can intervene with every law as we believe it should, but we must strictly keep in mind that this budget law must respect all existing laws in the legal system of a country. Therefore, regarding this amendment, which relates to the costs related to the Office for European Integration, the Office as an Office exists, the Government clearly says in response that the Office for European Integration must come up with a professional service established by the Government, under the Government Act, and that the budget law cannot regulate the issue relating to the establishment or abolition of this office. It may be our opinion that it is unnecessary or necessary, given the currents in society, given the government's programme it is necessary. She exists. The question is whether it is necessary to allocate this amount of funds or not, but when I look at that 120 million dinars have been allocated for the entire European Integration Office, and only for travel, let's say, the government's secretariat has been allocated 92 million, then there's no room for intervention in this part of the budget as far as the amount is concerned. I went out for a pay phone not to use time, nor to use those 15 minutes, it doesn't matter at all, just to draw the public's attention -- who are these MPs who write amendments to write them, or those who have no idea what the budget is, what is the economy of a country, what is the legal system of a country or who just want to delay the debate on this matter. I'll end up with it, without any sentimentality, without any subjective feelings related to that MP group, I don't hate them, and I believe my colleagues, we're just feeling immeasurably sorry for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11841	Mr. Christin has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really can't believe this parliamentary group, and in particular Stefan Zankov writes one amendment, and that's against: in Article 5, Section 3, Chapter 3.8, Function 110, to be deleted. She's just talking and it's about the European Integration Office. Gentlemen, as a new parliamentary group now, you want to enter Europe. I don't see why you'd want to wipe this office out right now. That's the basis to open that door first to get into some bigger door, a wider door that's a normal way to Europe. You're the ones who say you want to go to Europe at the pay phone here. You've been changing some new rhetoric you've been talking about for 18 years, and now you just say no, we're against the European Integration Office getting that 120 million and 600,000 dinars. Looks like whoever orders you, then you write the amendments, you go out for a pay phone, you talk. I will return only to this amendment by Vuceta Toskovic, who also asked that in Article 5, Section 3, Chapter 3.7, function 110, be deleted. In fact, it's about the Office for Media Cooperation, and as far as we know, Mr Nikolic here the other day had a verbal duel with Mr Batic and the SDP people, where they said briefly, especially LDP colleagues, that they were so on TV that the LDP simply didn't have such a minute for the entire campaign that was in May. They simply submit this amendment to this co-operation with the media i.e. The media simply wipes out funding in this budget, which is for 2009. However, I will take the opportunity to point out what is important, which most of the other parliamentary groups are skipping, which is the problem of agriculture. It is clear and loud here that the 2008 budget for agriculture was 27 billion 690 million 760 thousand 631 dinar, and in 2009, 20 billion 493 million 699 million 700 dinars. For some seven billion, this budget, which would be allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, will not be in any way encouraged by this fallen agriculture that has been very bad in the last seven or eight years. This is all thanks to ministers who have been so heartily passing laws, such as the Law on the issuing of state land to rent. Then they appear, here are just a little bit of enlarged texts, and they say in 23.1.2008, the Special Prosecutor's Office is checking the abuse of nationalisation in Vojvodina, and former Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic is suspected to be the organiser of a criminal group. For two months, the Ministry of Agriculture has been carrying out extensive control of the dukes' peasants who have received money from subsidies, so-called incentive funds from the state, but have not used them to produce food, nor can they prove where they spent money. More than 700 households, according to former Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic's decision, received between three million and six million euros to encourage production. Members and sympathisers G 17 plus were selected on the list, and most of the subsidies were reportedly misused by that money. Reminders for the sake of this, Ivana Dulic-Markovic, after completing her term as Minister of Agriculture and Deputy Prime Minister, continued to work as an influential Croatian lobbyist. For months now, he has been trying to kidnap more than 250,000 hectares of the state country and allowing leading Croatian food and tycoons producers to take over Serbia's agriculture. Duliceva, with his organization 100 P plus, 100 paora plus, needs to be managed and well invented one name, tries to destroy large agricultural combinations, in which she is selflessly assisted by B92 and local Vojvodina media, normally with the help of G 17 and Pajtic. As her former associates testify, when she found out she was no longer going to have an impact on state policy in the area of agriculture, she reacted fiercely, screamed, broke everyone's office, hystericald, screamed, cried. She obviously promised everything and everything to Croatian tycoons and lobbies so-called. paora. The special prosecutor's office has been checking abuses and malfeasances in Vojvodina for a long time, and Dulic is suspected to be the organiser of the criminal group, he said, claims to be a "Kurir" source from the Serbian government. According to the Agricultural Land Act, the country's special financial assistance has been granted to politically privileged couples, so those who are members of the G17 and the known yellow company DS, who are represented as a commercial family peasant landhold or as legal persons. When they need to withdraw state subsidies and preferential loans, then they are independent holdings. When it comes to getting help from the state to increase production, to buy out nursing homes, then they're businesses. That's what crime is about. They are double-registered to the state and steal millions of euros from taxpayers. They don't report seasonal labour, they don't pay taxes and contributions, they all work on black, and they get help from the state. This is the second article that came out in the paper. It says "Paor Mafia", Ivana Dulic-Markovic. I don't think I'll have time to read this to you. I hope you've been able to read this before and get to this newspaper. But I have to make one fact, in the lease of state agricultural land, thanks to the irresponsibility of Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic in 2007, the state lost a lot of money that would now help this budget. It is a man who, as a responsible person, as a minister, approved that many tycoons who bought, apologized to some farmers who managed to buy 10-20 hectares to buy, while others, thanks to Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, did not pay the dinar in 2007. Zrenjanin, a grain municipality, lost 635 million dinars in 2007 from the renters. Neither the dinar was paid nor the dinar, and only 32 entities paid 62 million in 2008. It belonged to 40% of the municipality, 25 million. You see what would have happened if they had paid those 635 million in 2007 and that 240 million were left to the municipality, and that 380 million, as it goes to 30% of the province, 30% to the republic, that it went from only one municipality. From what I heard from counterpart Petar Jojic, only in Pančev a billion did not pay in 2007, thanks again to Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic who approved it. The auction is done by the municipality, but the minister's approval is granted. The contract is valid and legally sanctioned when a person does not comply with obligations to the State. Once again, I apologize to those individual farmers, peasants, paori, poor people who managed to get to the 10, 20, 30 acres to buy, but someone told them from the municipality, you don't have to, because the ministry told us, you don't have to pay. The contracts were made in early March. What culture is sown in early March? None, because it's still snow, unfortunately, I hope this year it'll be in March. The first crop to be sown is corn and sown in early April. However, you seem to really do what I say about this speaker in front of the SRS parliamentary group, which is Mr. Petar Jojic and a few other colleagues... (President: Time, sir. As for the Ministry of Agriculture... (President: Mr. Christin, finish up. I'll be right there. So far, I've asked a parliamentary question 12 times. Where's the grant, who got it? What are these subjects, names and last names? So far, I have not received any answers since 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. Not once. Just yet, I'm sorry, I'll finish right away, here's one. How much has the Republic of Serbia achieved from the state lease in 2007 and 2008 and where have the funds been spent? Why doesn't the Ministry of Agriculture release guarantees for the hire of state-owned persons who haven't paid for 2007 and 2008 and who protects them? Gentlemen, so when you bid and buy, you actually rent state agricultural land, someone has to submit a note and a claim right, so if you don't pay, then it's activated within the time limit. But Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, then minister, in 2007, approves people are making lease contracts, but they have no guarantees or bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11843	Do you want to follow this amendment? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by MP Stefan Zankov on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group is fully in line with the SNS programme, as well as our vision of budgetary spending. We believe that what we have been saying both in principle and in particular, in terms of the global economic crisis, we must save. The first to show us that they are saving is the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the authorities of the state administration. So, with this amendment, Mr. Zankov asked that a single office, in our opinion completely unnecessary, would not receive funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. But thanks to the majority's first wish, it is proposed that this amendment be rejected, with reasons that it does not comply with the Constitution and the Budgetary System Act. I'm going to have to disappoint all those who claim it, and even those drawers that go into public finances don't understand much, explain, show them, teach them, no problem, I'm able to talk and teach them as much as it takes. So, the SNS proposed that funds for the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister be abolished, for the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration to be abolished, for the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development to be abolished and the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy and Social Action. Also, to abolish the budget for the Office for Media Cooperation, the Office for European Integrations, which is already mentioned, the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets, the Agency for Environment Protection, Anti-doping Agency, the Republic Institute for Information and the Internet, the Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion, the Agency for Cycling, the Energy Efficiency Agency and the Restitution Directorate. When you subtract all of this, you'll get some amount of a billion 127 million 474,000, which should be allocated to the 21 million for the Serbian Matica, and the rest would go for the country's agriculture and defence. That is how the balance required by the budgetary system and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was achieved. So I don't see why anyone claims this amendment doesn't comply with the Constitution and the law. But, well, let's leave it to the laymen to think about it. Maybe they'll learn something sometime. The question arises as to why the European Integration Office, when we already have a Deputy Prime Minister who has a cabinet to deal with European integration. The cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers, where the Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, known as "God - Derikoza" and "Vojvod of Meridian Bank", is due to spend 67m dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget. For salaries and allowances employed by 28 million and 548,000, for travel costs of nearly nine million, for some services under contract 16 million and 40,000. We also have the European Integration Office, so it needs to spend almost 46 million on wages, so it needs to spend on travel costs of 9.5 million, so some services under the contract 43 million and 600,000 dinars. That's what we've been telling you all along since the discussion of the Republic of Serbia's budget. You're unnecessarily multiplying the administration. You're making a budget out of the Republic of Serbia, under the pretext that we're going to Europe, a quite expensive meeting for citizens of Serbia's marketing. That is the problem when it comes to this budget and all the budgets that have been proposed since the coming DOS to power. At the same time, I am surprised by the fact that the SNS is constantly accusing it of forming a coalition with the ruling majority and with the DS. As far as I know, in early December of this year, a new assembly majority consisting of G17 plus, DS and SPS was formed in the town of Požarevac. Until then, the SRS, SPS and DSS were in power. Since I left the SRS, the head of the SRS District Committee has been Mr. Saša Valjarevic, the secretary of the District Committee, Mr. Branislav Vujic, otherwise brother of the SRS Vice-President Gordana Pop-Lazic. I ask the question, if you are the opposition, what the two first men on the SRS District Committee are looking for at the Požerevec City Development Fund, in the Management Board, means exclusively to the executive body, they have the funds of the fund. I think it's a matter of the two being released, you know, in that fund there's a small range of around 200 euros per month. The DS nice Mr. Valjarevic and Mr. Vujic shut her mouth on December 22nd with 200 euros a month. That's your price now. (During this presentation, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11845	The word is Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11846	In addition to what is now the MPs of this political party, which we have called here by various names, but everyone stands well for them, therefore, for a better and better life, a party that considers itself to be advanced, but rather backward, because there are both forwards and backbones among them, I ask you to protect us, first of all, from their conduct, incorrect. Here, and now the MP, of course, is still an MP, passing by my desk, threw some paper at me on the table. He could've thrown something else at me, he could've hurt me. With what right does he do it? I think he deserves at least a warning. But since you don't know anything about politics, Mr. Arsic, I'm going to tell you something quite logical for people who are seriously involved in politics. Now to bring these to this pay phone of any of my three children, they can mate with you in any debate, because they are politically educated, educated, above all, who finishes colleges, defends master's work, they know what's going on on on the political scene. To tell you the truth, I'm preparing them to one day, when I retire, if they want to, continue to be active participants in political life. It's the same with my whole family. If there is any agreement or desire to engage politically in the politics of Serbia's life, they cannot just because I am the vice president of a party, or because I am a political MP, be politically inactive. You will allow, from the time of Greece, we know that man is, above all, a homo politician and that in each of us there is this political being, and that some of us want to express it in active political life. The only question arises is whether someone is misusing their political influence, the place where they are located. I've performed various government functions, I've been Minister of Local Self-Government, no one has been able to say that I've done anything illegal or against the law. I was president of a municipality. It was a budget inspection, the conclusion of the budget inspection is that absolutely everything was done in Zemun municipality under the law. That is, you can check in the budget inspection, the only record in which there is absolutely no objection. (President: Time. ) You can also ask the leadership of the city of Belgrade if, although the opposition political party was in power in Zemun, it has always taken the Zemun municipality as an example of how it is available in the budget and how it is safe to work. It's the only criterion, so are you honest or unfair, are you inclined to... (President: Bring the end of Mrs Pop-Lazic. You're not being abused. And who is whose brother, whose sister, who is whose child, is absolutely irrelevant. So you once said -- and I'd like my children to continue their work and activity in this SRS someday, while you were in the SRS. Finish it, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please. () Unfortunately, you have been expelled, so there is no room for you, nor for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11847	On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11848	I would just, before I begin to convince you that this is a good amendment, to notice that I felt that my apology, and your knowledge of the truth of what happened, was enough and that this story should not continue. So it doesn't seem too much in that direction when you say it's my policy-making manner, that I'm an unfortunate type or that I'm bringing it all down to an incident, because I have to tell you, there's a policy-making way of doing it, I don't blame it. That's not who I am, and if I was, this would have happened the first day we split up. Also, I have to tell you, if anyone offends my family, my wife, my mother, my bodyguard won't have to beat him, I will defend my family's honor. I don't have any bodyguards, but I remember some bodyguard beat up a man who insulted a lady.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11849	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11850	So, always expect... No, it doesn't matter, we know each other very well, and I don't mind anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11851	Mr. Nikolic, I'd like you to move on to an explanation of your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11852	In Article 5(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal for Criminal Warrants responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991. What do I object to that division, chapter 3.13 of function 110, classification 423? You here predicted some permanent cost of 600,000 dinars, a service contract of 8 million 614 thousand dinars. You have not predicted anywhere what many political participants ask of you, including those who have not even read the amendment and do not know that there should not be too much banging here, which is that there are many innocents who are in The Hague tribunal who are accused of so-called. war crimes and there are many who do not have the means to defend themselves. It's not just Vojislav Seselj who's innocent. He, fortunately, has a political party behind him who can at least fund that defense he himself is conducting in The Hague. But that's where the poor are. There are people who will have no one to get a single dinar from, no one will be able to print a single book, no one will be able to find witnesses, not even to verify their statements before the court, which will for this reason be denied for defence, and the state through the government's opinion, the government's negative opinion on this amendment - shows a clear desire to continue to give up legal aid to citizens, Serbian citizens indicted before The Hague tribunal. Now you convince me that the 8 million, as many as there are on that set of free funds, is insufficient, since the services of legal assistance to The Hague tribunal are extremely high. Yeah, they're extremely tall, and a man who doesn't have the means to defend himself can't count on being given the same defense rights as a prosecutor to charge him. So, it is about how Serbia understands the UN tribunal's indictees -- does it take them as the West, the guilty, who are only waiting for a verdict, or thinks they are its citizens who are to be helped, just like those who in the country do any crime and have no means. Should it help them to defend themselves and possibly even defend themselves? Remember, if some of them could be advertised innocents, Serbia would get a lot of it. If found guilty, especially those accused of war crimes, Serbia and the other Serbian state of Republika Srpska will lose as well. This is my appeal to you who exercise power, on your conscience, on your understanding of morality and justice - to interfere at last with the processes that are being conducted in front of The Hague tribunal, to make this a two-way road, we are not the street that you send people to the Hague Show, but also the path that allows them to defend themselves. With DOS coming to power, all teams that existed in the military, the current Bia, the MUP, who collected the data needed to defend then Slobodan Milosevic, and in any case all Serbian citizens who were indicted before The Hague tribunal, were suspended. All documents were brutally loaded into trucks, planes and taken to The Hague. There is no defence available, it is available exclusively to the prosecution, and people who have worked honorably to prepare the defense have lost their jobs, not only them, but their uniforms have been removed and retired, but also members of their families have been fired from the military or state service, if they were in it. So, the idea of a man's rights to defense is always about his material situation. If the state itself acknowledges that legal aid services are extremely expensive, that this is a very large amount of funds, then it acknowledges that its citizens do not have defence in The Hague because they do not have the funds and the state does not give them. With this amendment, I did not ask the state to pay for the services of overpriced lawyers, who are used to 10, 20, 30,000 euros per month. I appealed to the state to open its office in The Hague, to be at the Embassy of the Republic of Serbia. Before that, an ambassador, who has already condemned all citizens of Serbia accused before The Hague tribunal, should be seated there, someone from the state administration, that there must be open telephone links, fax links, e-mail links, that it must be heard within 15 minutes or 20 minutes when a document is needed, because each process is individual, specific, and all of them specific - because it is headed against the Republic of Serbia. I can't believe, in eight years, since you've been in power, that some of you haven't changed your mind about what's going on in The Hague tribunal, that you're still in charge -- let them be convicted, so they're taking the burden off our backs. The main thesis of a country should always be to help its citizen when threatened, especially when threatened in a foreign country. These processes before The Hague are processes that destroy people. The Hague tribunal itself is in the prosecution's service, and there have been many deaths in it, which the Republic of Serbia has not only not investigated, but did not look for information on -- how have some people lost their lives there, how has it treated them? This transfer, in response to the amendment, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is having problems with the purely financial problem, even cynicalally, referring to some of the resources the government has at its disposal, classified as social protection, and they say, in fact, to help the defendants and their families. You cannot justify the non-helpling of persons charged with the UN tribunal with some kind of social protection of their families. The family of Vojislav Seselj did not even have health care, until in some ways it regulated the SRS. His children did not have health books, because for you all the people in The Hague tribunal are villains and criminals, and you are good, especially those of you who have not participated in the war at all and who are calm now. Whenever a war breaks out somewhere, when Serbia needs to defend itself, they will turn off the light, get away from their cottages, when all this is over, they will appear to condemn those who have fought, who have had the ideology of war, the ideology of the defence of the country, the ideology of protecting the helpless. You may win again, because the people are all over their heads, especially wars. That's how you came to power after the NATO bombing. What's good for the state? What good is it for the state, if you now have the Chief of Staff, who is your man completely, who has been destroying the army with you for three years, if he has had to rebel too, feeling that some troubles are waiting for us, for which we are not prepared as a nation, nor as a state, nor as an army, nor as a coalition. What good is it for the state if you are accused and convicted of all politicians, all military commanders, all police commanders for defending the country, and are you sure all Serbian defenses have stopped? Are you sure the diplomatic struggle for Kosovo and Metohija will bear fruit? Are you sure there will be no savagery, barbarism and unrest on which the state will have to retaliate by force, by coercion that is only in the hands of the state? Have we secured ourselves for all time? We didn't. Do we have to defend ourselves? We'll always have to enter the defense if we have to. What do we say to those who need to lead us into that defense? "Take us now, and when all this is over, if you are sought before an international court, we will extradite you there." I repeat, I'm not just saying this because of Vojislav Seselj. I think his party will have enough resources to help him by the next election. I'm telling you because of the poor woman who is there, I'm telling you because of everyone else, since the UN tribunal has given up paying even those lawyers he himself made a list of the like to defend the Serbs charged with the UN tribunal. So I'm telling you because of all those martyrs who are out there who are not even in a position to live decently, because everything they want to afford, they have to buy at least twice the price of those who are in The Hague, in the city, on the street. I'm saying this because of Serbia's future. I know you won't accept it, but think carefully, with your relationship with the people in The Hague tribunal, are you preparing the same relationship for Boris Tadic, if we are forced to defend ourselves and Boris Tadic, as commander-in-chief, orders us to defend ourselves? Are you sure that after that defense year, two or five, or at any time, he's not gonna be in front of some cadet? During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11853	First Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11854	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the honourable MPs, how hypocritical the amendment and the explanation given by Mr Nikolic, as an atlantist shooting star, is reportedly advocating the better position of those in The Hague tribunal and who do not have enough funds for their defence and for a life that demands certain costs, is best shown by one fact, which I learned from his colleague, another traitor sitting next to him, Mr Arsic. He told me, until he had moved to this "sense-wise party", since the SRS MPs from time to time collected some money from their diaries to send to the party president so he could telephone, these phone conversations were quite expensive, there were some 432 thousand dinars left, Arsic collected it, Tomislav kept it, it took it to himself. That's what a man's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11855	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11856	I just want to answer two questions and I won't take your attention very long. So you should have "honored" remembered to at least mention The Hague tribunal in its amendments and I would have been pleased. I'd just like to come out and support your amendment. For the money, I'm grateful to Mrs. Jadranka Seselj, for not taking on the lie campaign against me and for never confirming your story that I didn't help the Seselj material family. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11857	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11858	Ladies and gentlemen, let's hear what Mr. Arsic says about this, if I lied. If I lied, I guess Mr. Arsic won't lie. Mr. Nikolic, I don't remember you ever singled out any money from your pocket for the Seselj family, nor was that asked of you. If someone was helping the Seselj family and helping her, it's the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11859	Mr. Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let them come out here and tell them if I've been collecting some money in the last six years that they personally gave me to deliver it to Tomislav Nikolic. Let those who beat whether I collected money from the MPs and gave it to Mr. Nikolic. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11861	Mr. Krstin, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. I was a witness in the office where Mr. Arsic and his friend Irene were sitting, where I was so angry with him in passing, when I asked him what you were suddenly angry and angry with him, he said, I don't know what to do anymore, I raised 270, 200,000 going to Voy, and 70,000 going to Tommy in my pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11863	Mr. Krasic, by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11864	I reported on behalf of the SRS on this section regarding, that is, 3.13, which is the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal, I must draw attention, regardless of what is heard from the pay phone, that it is a really big problem and unacceptable if from this position in the budget it can conclude the relationship of the Republic of Serbia to our citizens who are being accused and who are being tried in The Hague tribunal. I have to let the public know, no matter what someone doesn't like when I tell the public, that in 2009, there will be 8 million dinars less than 2008 planned for the budget. It says so, you wrote, for 2009, you planned 47.227 million dinars, and in 2008, there were 53 million and 405,000. Please, that's the data in the material on page 131 in the table, so you see. Very often when I say something, you don't believe it right now, and then you see that it's all true, it's the exact data, eight million of you planned less for 2009 than you planned for 2008, the first fact. The second fact, in the descriptive part, you only gave a few qualifications that are correct, is expensive defences in The Hague. You must know, the only Serb to whom The Hague tribunal is not funding the defence is Vojislav Seselj and there are no others. There are several who are in the pre-trial phase, they have already entered the process with the secretary and already some defenders, lawyers and started paying off. Please, don't let anyone disabling the public with a story about the need to help some, there isn't, it's just Vojislav Seselj. He's got two choices. The first decision to defend the Council's second decision itself that UN funds should fund its defence. The second decision is not realised because of Hans Holcius, the court secretary, and, in fact, the false data that was delivered from Serbia to the secretary regarding the property situation. I don't want to open the subject anymore, about it a few books are written, take it, read it. What is the bigger problem, the political problem of the Republic of Serbia? Which she condemned all persons in custody at The Hague tribunal with her relationship with them, according to their case, towards their citizens. In 2005, there were attempts to resolve the issue by special law, the law was passed. The vast majority of votes. The law has not yet entered into force, Mladjan Dinkic said, I am not giving a dinar out of the budget for help. Then some non-governmental Kobajagi organisations launched proceedings before the Constitutional Court, Slobodan Vučetic was eager to wait, reached a solution and banned the application of the law until the final decision. The final decision will never be made, the final decision of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the law. There's the end of the story, there's nothing else to tell, there's all the facts. What is the situation with other persons indicted in The Hague tribunal, and they are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia or not from Serbia, or not Serbs. The states have created funds, set up teams of lawyers, rented apartments, secured computers, connected, at the invitation of one to receive a document from Croatia, BiH and Macedonia, not to speak from Kosovo and Metohija. Teams are working. When the accused Serbs are gone, we have a drunk ambassador who attacks the UN tribunal indictees, that's the one, Radoslav Stojanovic. It's a fact, people, went to talk to the Krajisnik guy, went out, gave an interview and attacked a man. Where's the state? The state has given up. Why? Because the very name of the UN tribunal says they are already responsible, there is no need for the court to determine. That's the problem. You say, through the National Council, something's being financed, so you tell the witnesses. Do you know what happens to witnesses in Serbia? However, they are now on their way to BiH. As for the military case, the four witnesses of the prosecution, they also got suspended as well as these witnesses from Serbia, the warrant, they have to be brought in, I can't talk in detail, because they can't wait to pack me up and make Vojislav's position worse, of course. We in Serbia have a situation with 19 people who said, however, we do not want to be witnesses to the prosecution, based on one conversation with the prosecutor and investigators, we want to be witnesses to the defence. You've had opportunities, hash, this turkey, to read the statements of these witnesses to the defense. Well, that's the title of the book, what I'm doing now, the title of selling the book, so you have to take care of it and marketing is the most important thing. What's the relationship between our organs? The National Council received, forwarded to Vukcevic, Vukcevic da Dilparic, Dilparic called the Special Department, go, persuasion, you must, you must, no solution has the state authority that they must respond. No, but by pressure, by phone, you have in two books that are published all kinds of and all variations of pressure, threats, forces, intimidation, blackmail, bribery. A kidnapped man, held in The Hague for three months in Cheveningen. When he first got a passport, he ran away. Not to mention one of the witnesses in Novi Sad, they kept him there for two years for some other class, so they counted that in the case against Vojislav, he would also be their witness. The state, this government, doesn't want to see it as a problem of pride, dignity, sovereignty, territorial integrity of the state, no, it's an individual thing now. So you released a series of ice and Sreten Lukić, and you organized his rally, the first police rally; well, Zivkovic's government before the 2003 elections, you remember, don't just remember what happened. Please, as far as the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal is concerned, Rasim Ljajic said, for a year I will be, since you can't bring anyone in, here he is, eight years old, there. That's how it was, planted him, calculated, he's gonna do the dirty work, not someone else. Until a year ago, we had problems, and when the court order came that Vojislav Seselj's defence had to and defend himself to deliver documentation that was being delivered to the D.A.'s office, the material began to be delivered, at our request and for the intervention of the chairman's judge, before that, they didn't want to communicate, they didn't want to contact, just no, run away from us, we don't want anyone to know that we have any contact with you. It's the attitude of the state. In this response, it is said, services under the contract that experts are going to follow the trial at the International Court of Justice, and on the case under BiH's suit. You know, please, they didn't even dispute genocide in the process, they didn't dispute genocide, here's Tibor Varadi and Stojanovic's conclusion, let's just stick to formal things, like we weren't members of the UN, so it won't be our jurisdiction. So they calculated, based on it will also be with the case of Croatia. However, Croatia's case refers to 1991, and our disputed status has become since May 1992. There's got to be something, people, the state is a serious thing, no kidding, aman. He has to. I'm not going to go into this right now, what are constant costs, etc., about this, I'm not going to comment on these things. The state must change its attitude towards The Hague tribunal, towards the people there, they are all innocent while in custody, with whom you rightly raise your hands from someone, innocence is presumption, there is no help, they even have defamation, especially over B 92. You know how ugly - the Hague indictee, with whom the B92s mention it, and no one draws their attention and tells them what it means, people. Do you think that if those faces go unfounded there they'll be better for Serbia? He won't. I have to say, it's a good thing that another RTS program is giving footage of Vojislav Seselj's trial. It lures the public's attention, the public looks, comments on who wants it their way, but the facts come out, the truth comes out. We care about establishing the truth in The Hague, not about The Hague changing our history not just since 1991, but much earlier. Not to go into some kind of articulation that passes there like that of Ivo Tomic, who used the literature of Desimir Tosic in 1952, about the military landscape. That's terrible. Thanks to scientists, researchers, historians, we managed to break that art, that people laughed about the art of Ivo Tomic. Or that Tunens, who doesn't even know what a rifle looks like, a famous Belgian hero. The state needs to be active, to help and not to say this. The Seselj family had problems, she couldn't even have health care. Who made it impossible? Serbian Radical Party? No, it's not, but some brilliant mind at that time in power has concluded -- no, it can't, it has to be regulated, etc. It's this evasive relationship, it's no use, it's just damage. You clearly recommend how you view the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The state is obliged to help its citizen abroad, has an obligation. You can't divide citizens into first and second-class citizens. This country doesn't fight. Is this state fighting for the UN tribunal's archives?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11865	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11866	I just want to explain a little bit, it's not just Vojislav Seselj, he is currently in a pre-search phase, Radovan Karadzic, who has already said he will defend himself. It's a sign he won't be granted defense funds. There is no need to say that there is a request with the court secretary, so we now prejudge that he will receive the funds, there is a request by Vojislav Seselj, so it is never positively responsible for him. So, I wrote an amendment for 2009. Radovan Karadzic's trial will begin in the year, and should already be thinking about how he will find the means to defend himself. I am convinced, I know the situation in the family, I know that there is no means and that his defence will not be good, and his judgment depends on the fate of the Republika Srpska. That's what bothers me more, of course, with my knowledge that for the defence of Vojislav Seselj, the UN tribunal has not approved a single single dinar, but with my knowledge that the SRS is still powerful enough that a large part of the defence costs can cover themselves. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11867	Thank you. Mr. Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11868	I have to replicate because a very scary message is being sent here. Every time someone snaps like a rattle, and like a man, and like a friend, and a friend, and a godfather, then there's a terrible damage. Thanks to some activities in September, to prove something that cannot be proved, Vojislav Seselj lost the right to communicate privileged. From the looks of this unprivileged communication, I shouldn't be talking to you. When someone shows great fear, anxiety or hope for a procedure against Vojislav Seselj, I must draw attention, do not put the SRS in that basket. The decision exists, let that decision be realized, that's our request, let's not go beyond that. Just to draw your attention, it's depressing for the EU, it's depressing for the UN, it's depressing for NATO to have the president of a party in The Hague, in the sixth year of detention to achieve fantastic results like, above all, a lawyer in the courtroom, to lure attention and great enthusiasm. And it is depressing for them to have the SRS as the strongest political party in Serbia for years, because then the question is what they've been doing for 20 years. That's why it took a coup in the SRS, because someone concluded that this could end the issue of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague and here to finish the job of Kosovo, Vojvodina, etc. However, I am telling you all, citizens of the Republic of Serbia: a strong stable SRS, with its original number of mandates, here is the guarantee of the life of Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11869	Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11870	Go away, Mr. Crassus, my godmother, my godmother is my godmother. Don't tell any lies, so you can put a burden of guilt on me. Privilege conversations were denied for a month, then another month. Meanwhile, The Hague tribunal was investigating whether Vojislav Seselj pressured and blackmailed witnesses or not in his talks. When he found that it was not there, Vojislav Seselj was granted privileged talks. This is seen in every trial, but now you do not want to give the phone number on which you can speak privilegedly, because the judge warned Vojislav Seselj, give Boris Aleksic's phone number, which is now your counsellor in defence of the talks. What does privileged conversations mean, and why is the defense disabled? A privileged conversation is one that cannot be used when listening, and all conversations are tapped. When 30 of us sits down, what kind of conversation does something hide in? Of course, there were party conversations, you know that well. Never has the Hague tribunal, which listens to it, objected to it. For five years, we've been talking to a party for two years with privileged phones, so what? How could he have been denied the UN tribunal's privileged phone if we talked about a party? Yeah, we talked, so what? So I killed Vojislav Seselj? As far as your strength is concerned, yesterday I bought 600 dinars for the book "The Failing Touch of Tomislav Nikolic". So the coup failed, you're still strong enough to defend Vojislav Seselj and defend Serbia, so I have nothing against it. You've invented a coup, you know how a coup is conducted. I just couldn't take it anymore, like many of you can't take it anymore. I don't know what else is holding you back. So, I couldn't stand it, so I left, and you guys who say it was a coup, go out for this pay phone and tell which one of you I called to tear up the SRS, join the SNS, leave the MP's group, as it is called. I asked the man who came to us and came back the same day, so he stayed in the bench, didn't come out to lie, you called me. I didn't call anyone. If I wanted to call, I have people here who would be valuablely used in the SNS for Serbia, and here they will remain at the level of SNS slanderers. So your policy-making, if it only comes down to SNS, becomes in vain. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11871	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11872	Madam Chairman, I have an obligation to rephrase Mr Nikolic on behalf of the parliamentary group and draw attention to him to concentrate when he comes out for this pay phone, not to engage in such contradictions. I didn't do it this morning, but now I have to. This morning, he made a public call here to a national MP, whom he called wrongly, his last name does not know, it is about Mr Martinovic. He told him exactly this, I recorded -- you don't belong in this political party, thinking of the SRS. He directly offered him an offer for his political party. He urged younger people who had no room to develop into the SRS, to come to the Serbian Progressive Party, there he and his co-chair, tiger and lion, Aleksandr Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic, to show all they know. Tomislav Nikolic knows how much intellectual capacity there is here, in this political party. He's sorry these people didn't follow him, but these people are loyal to the ideologies of the SRS. Here, and now as he spoke, he again called on the SRS MPs to move to the Serbian Progressive Party, but the foreigners of common sense cannot, Mr Nikolic, ever approach.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11873	Mr. Momchilov, replica. You were not directly called, and on behalf of the party already spoke the vice president, on behalf of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11875	Mr. Momchilov, I didn't give you my word. Just to be clear, Mrs. Pop-Lazic answered on behalf of the SRS. Do you feel for any other reason personally offended?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11876	No, I'm not offended, but I've been called. It's said, quote, you can look at the stenogram, that there are those who are smart here and who shouldn't be sitting here, so I happen to recognize myself there. (President: Good. I agree that you may have a different opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11877	I don't have a second opinion, a very good job, about my dear colleague. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11878	Please give me back my time then. There's obviously been a misunderstanding here for days. I'm just going to start with the facts, and try to tell my view of it, and that's seeing an SRS parliamentary group. On 11 May 2008, we had elections involving the SRS. The SRS won 78 parliamentary seats, which is undeniable. Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows the MP to unrelentingly trust the mandate of the party to which he belongs, as all candidates for SRS MPs have done, which is undeniable. Part of the SRS MPs is leaving the party, part has left, part has been shut down and a new party has been established by the Serbian Progressive Party, which is also undeniable. In this assembly, parliament cannot sit MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party since the party has not participated in the elections. You have an example that the City Hall has done differently. People returned their mandates and explained that it was the only legal right thing to do, even morally, and we had no problems there. What do we have today? In parliament, the ruling majority tolerate the illegal and illegal existence of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group within the SRS. If you look at the site of the Assembly, you will see that it is a member of the MPs in the list presented this way. Here, I'm reading - Ancient Zoran, so that's a list of MPs removed this morning. Then it is said -- the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia and is said to be the SRS party. Please, they can't, they're not SRS anymore. What are we protesting and why are we irritated? We say this is an untrue representation of the actual situation. That's illogical. Then take this off the site, so let's just stand - a parliamentary group, or let it stand - the Serbian Progressive Party. You know you can't do that, because such a party didn't participate in the election. You're generating a permanent conflict here. Although, they have two or three other things, maybe. They're very simple. Something has happened in the SRS that has happened to other MPs, and one could easily bring it down to three things. It's simply that certain human vanitys of some people have failed to be others. I'm not worth it, and I'm not saying they're wrong, maybe, just happened. So, what happened? They tried a coup to take over the SRS, it's known by calling an emergency congress. It didn't work. Okay, so they started a party and then to justify maybe even a little awkward truth, they gave up a little bit of ideology. I don't want to count what. Finally, they were not alone in the venture. The society was built by tycoons, foreign ambassadors and a new coalition partner. That's what's real. That's what irritates us. That's why we're banging and banging as long as this abnormal situation exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11879	Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11880	Article 104. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated here by misreading the Constitution and relations in parliament. So the SRS won 78 seats in the election. One of those mandates was entrusted to me. According to a member of that Constitution, which you quote, I can entrust this mandate to the party, my mandate, as it says in the Constitution. No law has ever been passed on the basis of which I would trust that mandate. The Institute of Resigns exists earlier and before this Constitution, and it defines the relationship when the MP no longer wants to be a People's MP. Probably all MP groups are misusing the resignation institute. The institute of resignation is when an MP comes and says - I will no longer be an MP. You mean - Tomislav Nikolic no longer wants to be an MP. I say, I do. For nothing, you decide I don't want any more. I want him to be an MP. You're asking the yellow ones to give you back these mandates. Ask, Mr. Momchilov, the kind of lawyers who are taking you now, if they ever asked for it. No, they're pushing you to bang on the bench, to swear, to insult, to provoke, to ask for mandates from this pay phone. Who would give it back to you like that? To get Hope Kolundji out and say, "Here, we're giving you back your mandates"? Based on what, gentlemen? Did you at least write a request to the Management Board to consider the situation? Did you at least write a request to the President of the Assembly to consider the situation? No, you're not. You are asking for someone to give you your mandates back, to give you my mandate, according to the Constitution of my mandate, not the mandate of the SRS, according to the Constitution, to return my mandate to you. That's the definition I made. Accepting the others, she hardly accepted DS. So, his mandate, because this European legislation is accepted in traditional values in preamble, and then in two members of the Constitution, then he does not know the situation that the political party can demand that an MP be resolved beyond his will. There is no imperative mandate in modern law. Ladies and gentlemen, don't ask for what you didn't ask for. It's not a pay phone, it can be on the Administrative Board, in court, in front of the Constitutional Court, in front of an institution. You know I don't have any influence on those institutions. You're losing your mandates one by one... (President: Time. ..of those people who no longer want to be in that party, and you say - the party won. I was part of that party, too. What do you think, I've won at least my term with you, and now it's up to you? Did we split up, split up? Is there in a divorce situation that a spouse does not get anything from what he has in common? There isn't. We've gotten these mandates together, there's as many of you as there are, there's as many of us as there are, you're disrupting the work of the Assembly because of it, but I'm just asking you that when you're doing your profession, you don't share people in radicals and advances. Those to whom I say this know very well when they have a sin against someone, just because they're advanced, they've done it in their profession. (During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11881	Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, attitude 104. I ask only one question to Tomislav Nikolic, one single question. Mr. Nikolic, you said you were a lion, but you're not an institution yet, that's not why you think of yourself as an institution, so that I would ask that question by article 225. I'm asking you a question-- when you're telling the truth, is it the last 18 years or now? Then how did you have the nerve to take those resignations in all previous cases and after the election? How can Serbia trust you, how can the citizens of Serbia trust you? That's the question here. What is Serbia's border for you today? What is the ideology for you today? You say - Karlobag, Ogulin, Karlovac, Virovitica is not, it is a dream, because it is an internationally recognised border. Tomorrow it will be for KIM, an internationally recognised border. All that they ask of you will be for you. That's the problem. You guys here all the time, you're showing incredible fear because you don't decide your fate. Your fate is decided by the yellow. They decide to take your mandate, they'll take it from you. What can you do? You can't do anything, because you're a tool in their hands and they're using you to the limit that suits them. And if we're talking, we're talking as partners, we're looking for our own, what we've been stolen, and you can't stop it. You can whine here all day and night, it's not worth it. Boris Tadic will decide as he will at a given time. How can he trust you? You betrayed the SRS, you betrayed Vojislav Seselj, and you'll keep him safe. You think he's that naive? He doesn't think about it. He'll be watching his own interests. When he realizes he doesn't need you anymore, he'll wipe you out with a rubber, he'll finish the job, and all you can do is whine - why Boris Tadic let you down. And to complain, someone may have an understanding, someone won't, but what do we do to you? We told you in the beginning - Tomo, aman, is not worth it, with traitors no one will. They use themselves once, twice, and it ends with them. Take only in this congregation here how many party splits there have been, and only those who have done so honorably had a political future. Everyone else has disappeared from the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11883	Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11884	Please, Mr. Todorovic, save your manners and your address for the trailer truck. This is not for the National Assembly, even if you don't love me or resent me, I will see to it that I always speak to you with respect and some sense of dignity, since we are here in this room equal. According to Article 104, I really shouldn't answer questions, I tried to explain it to Mr. Todorovic. Whoever wants to be informed, he's looking for an article. 225 and 226, but it's not worth explaining to him. I know who invited him now that he's out of the O.R. this fast. The second thing, until this constitution, the party absolutely had the mandates of its MPs. This constitution for the first time freed the peoples of their will. Under this constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you cannot pass an MP beyond his will to take office, even though he was on your list. It's very simple. Please file a request. Neither must your mandates be returned to Boris Tadic nor to us to guard the mandates. Please submit a request in which you, high-level lawyers, will explain why Tomislav Nikolic can no longer be a national envoy. If you're right, everyone will give you back those mandates, but you're wrong. I feel like calling one more of you, but I didn't call, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, even those smart ones who don't belong here, I didn't call to come to us if they recognized each other. I'm just saying that there are people here who could help Serbia, I've avoided telling a foreigner, and who in the SRS won't have the opportunity to help Serbia. If you thought helping Serbia means moving to SNS, it's your logical thinking system that I may have influenced for the past 10 years, as long as you were in the party. We found you in '96 as a socialist in Zemun. I don't want to talk about it. I really don't care about it. I don't know what's wrong with you. (President: Time. I'm writing an amendment to The Hague, and you're jumping on me, and you don't write anything about The Hague yourself, because you're very interested. You've provided a lot of stories about The Hague budget, if we hadn't mentioned The Hague, you wouldn't have mentioned it. (President: Time, Mr. Nikolic. I'm sorry, it's just a sentence. I abstain from replicating you. Sometimes I think Serbia will think you're right. I'm not lying, I'm not cheating on Serbia, I'm going to the election with you. Where you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, are directly involved in the election, win zero parliamentary seats, where I'm involved, my party wins council seats. Where Mrs. Verica Radeta is involved and plays a bike in Vranjska Banja, there are no council seats, maybe because she was a Radeta, I don't know. Where I've been to Vranjska Banja, we win council seats. We're not in power, the DSS is in power, and I accept that. (President: Time. Just don't know what you shouldn't tell me. Anything else can. I'm the worst person in the world, and I accept that, and I accept everything you say about me, but you mean... (President: Bring the end, please. A little on having your own house and family, and I'm never going to get down to the low level that you're on right now. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11885	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, then Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11886	Dear fellow Members of the People, with one apology that we still take too much time away from the National Assembly on these replicas, but the public must know the truth. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, you are a senior SPS official, I believe you have a neat documentation and please check if Gordana Pop-Lazic was ever a member of the SPS?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11887	No, if you were, you wouldn't have left the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11888	Never. So this is an orthodox lie. I've been in the SRS since 1996, from the moment I had the chance to meet the party president, Mr Vojislav Seselj personally. So that's when I joined the party, and really beyond my expectations, I made very fast progress in this party. But Tomislav Nikolic obviously has some problem with women in general, and especially with women in the SRS. I don't know what syndrome it is, but the authorities and those who understand it could give us an answer. Anyway, I mean, I advise you on good faith, no more women, it's no good for you. The wolf jumps, breaks phones around the office, and he'll probably call you right now and say "aman," stop attacking them more, especially not her, you know she's got a reputation that big. As for the election results, Mr. Nikolic, our average party was 28%. Was it like that? How many votes did we win in Zemun, where I was the president of the municipality, as the ruling party and as someone who had power, and you're usually expected to drop a few votes? On republican, city, municipal 42%. So much for you that you're willing to tell the truth about both your share and your participation in everything the SRS has accomplished. All of us here together, because of the ideology we have represented, because of the party's program, because of the holding Vojislav Seselj, which we have convinced the people that we are a force that can change something, we have received so many votes, not because of your tie that Vukic binds you. Trust me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11889	Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11890	Madam President, honourable Members of the People, we have a working day in the world today. Yesterday we worked, Friday we worked, tomorrow we'll work until the last minute, to do something to fix some very bad budget. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is very bad, which we discussed, and we all agreed, positions and opposition. We've made amendments to fix it, if possible, so we can help it vote tomorrow, but about not wanting to get the budget fixed, that they want to pull us in with such a bad budget, push us to do something for the people and let that vote go and vote it out, unrepared, very badly, where there's a series of violations of laws, regulations, agreements. Please, let's get back to the subject. Let's fix it. Now let's not let the problems that have arisen in the opposition, today on Sunday, get into internal debates, and now what's happened is that he can't go back. It'll go, there'll be an opportunity to say it at conferences, at various gatherings. But I really ask you to try to preserve our dignity of opposition MPs and force the government, there's the finance minister, to fix that budget, if we want to help him vote. We can't get in the way of taking him in like that, saying yes, and killing time on some bullshit stuff. Please, as an opposition party, as an opposition MP, let's go back to the subject, let's try today and tomorrow to fix something, if we can. Let's not do internal dirty laundry. It was everything. There was dirty laundry everywhere. Let's not do this, brotherly and friendly, please. To move on to the topic and we'll all agree, I mean Todorovic and Nikolic and everyone, to enter into this serious topic, and there will be opportunities when all this goes on to talk about other topics. We'll be in a position to make some survey committees here, to clear up who's running it, we heard a catastrophic thing the other day, the vice president of the government saying that someone outside the government is leading the government. It's a chance to ask him to come here and say who it is? Who runs the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Why do we have the budget as it is? Why are many items hiding? Why was an agreement signed with independent unions, and now that they've been pushed, we say there's no money? Can we solve the problems of the reservers, the workers from the department houses and many others who come here day and night waiting for a straw of salvation? Many in the municipalities, the vault is empty, will not receive salaries. People call every day and pray, we don't have ministers' salaries, the vault doesn't have money, and they tell them they can't take salaries. Christmas is coming, New Year's Eve, what do we do? So, let's move on to these issues, let's get this straight, please don't sit in the world late and late by midnight today, and talk about some topics that aren't for this opportunity. Let's do what we can tomorrow, and then decide if we can support it and let it vote or we can't, ask it to be fixed, otherwise we'll discuss it until it's fixed. If we can find a common solution to support it tomorrow and make this people happy, say that at least we got that budget, it'll be a little better. Something's going to happen, and we're going to get rid of this one from the government, see if they can do anything in January or can't. If I can't, let them look for other solutions. Please, so let's get going, if we can, get this over with as soon as we can. Anyway, it's Sunday, it's late and it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11891	I think it's really an opportunity to join this forest construction, which Mr. Ilic said. Thank you. Member of the 5th Division of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Miss Ragush wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11892	The SRS of course does not have the exclusiveity to talk about The Hague tribunal, but it seems to have full legitimacy to talk about The Hague tribunal, about what happens behind 13 locks and under severe supervision, about how families of suspects live in front of The Hague tribunal. Because the president of the party is in The Hague, accused because he has publicly recognised those who have joined in the crime and intended to crush the Serb people. He also publicly recognized all those puppets that helped carry out a criminal enterprise on the domestic political scene. Since the untruth has been told by Mr Tomislav Nikolic that the SRS has not submitted an amendment to the material position of families suspected before The Hague tribunal, I expect the citizen Nikolic, who is trying to understand the democratic political framework, to apologize to me, an ordinary SRS MP, after this. What we have tried to correct with the proposed amendment concerns Article 5 of Section 3, Chapter 3.113, function 110, in economic classification 423, first refers to services under contract, in columns 6 and 8, where the SRS has proposed replacing the amount of “8.614,000” with the amount “2.614,000”. In Article 5, Section 3, Chapter 3.13, function 110, in economic classification 472 - social security benefits from the budget, in columns 6 and 8, the amount of "21,500,000" is replaced by "27,500,000". We have been given the reason that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the reduction of defined funds in the economic classification of 423, services under contract, would reduce the resources needed to hire advisers and other professional services of persons in charge of monitoring court proceedings before the International Criminal Tribunal. Namely, the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal suggests that the decision to grant material aid was the last one in 2005, the intended forms of material assistance to which members of their families were entitled, as well as the way in which they were given the right to grant material aid. For this purpose, the draft budget provides for funding of up to 21.5 million dinars, so classification of 472, social security benefits from the budget, which are set at the necessary amount. I really appreciate that, Mrs Dragutinovic's professional reputation is saying, what she's trying to do in the congested state and I believe, in fact, I'm taking all the hopes that you might eventually or that I'll be involved enough to convince you that the funds identified for the families of the UN tribunal are really not enough for these people to live a life of worthy men, for several reasons. We daily, staying in The Hague, have the opportunity to view this as human and Christian in the most odious way that these families are really being abused. They have a problem financing their way, staying, spending hours under surveillance in a manner worthy of man, where their prison authorities determine to be with their husbands brothers, their children's fathers. When they return to Serbia, they truly have resources and lives disabled for one simple reason, they, Dr Dragutinovic, are simply Stigmatised, are a family of suspected war crimes suspects before the International Criminal Court in The Hague. The state of Serbia simply does not want to listen to Christian all the demands of these people who try to live daily life, to achieve basic human rights guaranteed by the highest legislative act, such as the Constitution, such as the right to work, to dignity, to live, it is daily impossible for them. The funds that are defined by the position of this budget are simply not acceptable from that basic existential point of view, Christian, human, and take whatever you want. So I really have all the hope, respecting what your professional life is saying, that you will find ways to strengthen this position, so that these people truly live a life of a decent man. It's just that, right down to a judicial verdict, all those suspected of the most serious crimes are considered innocent until proven otherwise. Mr. Krasic, as legal adviser to Dr. Seselj, really spoke enough of everyday problems, both the suspects and their families have, would not take time to repeat that story. However, indeed to all of you and to this home, I must apologize for one simple reason, Mr Velimir Ilic is partly right when he came out and tried to channel the debate of one of the most important discussions for the Serbian parliament, such as the budget debate in one constructive direction. But what really very often the SRS brings to a semi-friendly situation is what we're trying to figure out, and it's not working out for us. The most common truth is very simple and concerns everything that has been happening lately, and it is, I really don't want to mitigate it, completely killing Serbian national interest at times when the survival of the Serbian nation is at stake. So we tried multiple times to properly respond to the SNS, and I'm really sorry that a small number of people are there. What citizens should know, because Serbian radicals unfortunately have no other space, except for this payphone to draw attention to what is actually behind the progressive idea. I can't believe that at this point, and it'll probably be the citizens of Serbia who are watching this, I'm talking about it, it's actually what rarely anyone in the SRS could ever think, that some of us have succumbed to the Western interest, first those behind The Hague tribunal and managed to break the SRS after the elections. What is also very difficult to understand is the SNS ideology, the way the programme's definition is trying to represent us by attacking with its programme and political action as to God's opposition to the opposition, the political scene in Serbia, I must tell you, has never met. It's really very difficult for me as a politician to understand that someone who's been a nationalist for 18 years wakes up one morning in an advanced party suit, which has a tradition of implementing Western political programs. How come who tried to act here to vote for the SRS Stabilisation and Association Agreement can tell the Serbian people and turn to Serbian citizens that they will protect their interests when the defacto has recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. It was a betrayal of Serbian national interest. As anyone in SNS thinks, programming and ideologically, and really, here's what I've been trying to do all this time, I don't recognize because I hear you've been Eurosceptics, and now you've reached the partner of the European Union, the same partners of those people who killed innocent people in Sarajevo, there's 6,387, in Srebrenica there's 3,287. Mr. Nikolic and you all killed them twice. It's a shame you're nodding at it, sir. It was the ideological program of the party you belonged to. You sold them. You know when, do you know what time it is? The moment you gave Manter your hand, when Manter accepted you as a European acceptable right. That's the truth you citizens will try to explain in the election. In The Hague tribunal, Mr Rogovic, Dr Vojislav Seselj has been defending you for six years. In the UN tribunal, Dr Vojislav Seselj is the only ideologist of Serbian nationalism. He responds to The Hague tribunal for his consistency and endurance in Serbian nationalism. I'm trying to understand you programically, but if someone, like Mr Nikolic said on January 1st, said the SAA was signed with Serbian blood and he's going to knock it out here, and a few months later he's trying to convince us here to accept those who made the Shiptarian state. Explain to me, I want to hear it, ideologically, defend it ideologically and programically. Based on what ideologies do you form your own political thought? On the basis of which Christian thoughts do you try to be unhappy with the families and the lithium of Serb martyrs to convince, which follows every move of all of us, and that is the only justice for all of us equally? What is it that you will do for Serbia with Great Britain, with the United States, with Germany? What's that? I personally want to hear it here, as well as the citizens of Serbia. You constantly attack honest people who live on average, drive used vehicles, most often drive used vehicles, have no space in the media, have a problem with funding, cannot participate in the defence of Dr. Seselj, because it is true, there is no privileged communication, because they do not have the means to send out everything ordered by The Hague tribunal. On the other hand, your media space for the SRS has always been simply forbidden. Give me an example of when we appeared on B92 or on any other regimeal media. That says enough about everything. So, gentlemen of the elderly, when you go out and talk about certain ideological and political directions, keep in mind only one thing, that you're trying to defend what's indefensible. Don't let it happen to you, it's historically seen, that the graves of innocent people who are now your mentors, that they're dealing with you somewhere, because justice, the only one and the same for all, will belong to only one instance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11893	Anyone else want a word? On Article 5, sections 3, 12, 14, 15, 17, 34 and 55, MP Milan Lapcevic submitted the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Rade Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11894	Madam Minister, this amendment will be explained by colleague Lapcevic and in the first part I will try to explain. For the third day, we have been discussing the budget law in particular and colleagues are trying to explain the problems that exist with individual divisions. What was our fundamental observation at the very beginning, it is that such a projected budget, with such initial assumptions, unfortunately for the citizens of Serbia, will not be realised. Once again, the assumption is that in 2009, GDP growth will be 3.5%, inflation will be 8%, imports will drop 4.8% and exports will drop by 5.4%. These are assumptions from this budget. It is known that in the previous three months we have a 6% drop in industrial production, which has not been recorded in the last ten years. This points to all the seriousness of the situation in which Serbia is presently. If we're right, they prove two of the most famous credit rating agencies. Finally, in the budget, you have the item that Serbia is financing or paying for the participation and assessment of the rating. Both agencies, Fitch and Standard, predict that the maximum growth next year could be 2%. A 2% growth G-di-drink for Serbia and each other predicts. In doing so, the stability of our public debt is no longer stable but negative. The assessment of our debt is negative because there is uncertainty in the implementation of the budget and there is serious doubt in politics. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the experts of the two agencies say. We asked one parliamentary question 20 days ago. I would like to thank the Minister for providing us with an answer. The answer shows that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic, is wrong. Mr Djelic said the budget deficit in 2008 or that budget revenues would be 25 billion less than are predicted. Mr. Djelic is wrong. It's not going to be 25, it's going to be 30 billion smaller. We got that data and that data doesn't match the data that's on the official government website. These data are from the answer to our MP's question. That data is significantly worse than what's on the website. I'll show you. It's the same date. The government's website says that in the first 11 months total budget receipts are 584 billion, and in response to our parliamentary question, these revenues are 566 billion, 18 billion less. The mistake is only in non-tax revenues, because the non-taxes are 11.4 and here they're said to be much larger. If all this is accounted for and the budget revenues are taken, as you said in the debate, as Mrs. Minister said in the debate that there will be about 54 billion, the total hole this year will be 30 billion, ten billion less than we projected just two months ago, with a drastic decline in industrial production, with a drastic drop in VAT revenue. There are all reasons to be seriously concerned about what lies ahead next year. It is just another piece of evidence that Governor Jelasic is right, that we are in for a rebalancing very quickly and that we need to seriously consider what kind of policy will be taken in Serbia in 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11895	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. The time available for the parliamentary group is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11896	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of the Budget Law. It is, according to its structure, quite extensive, because it provides for multiple divisions and economic classifications to reduce certain costs and appraisals for, above all, the costs of travel and services under contract, specialised services, and in some places and buildings and construction facilities, and in two places to increase certain apropriations and for the purpose of funds, subsidies to businesses and organisations and grants to underdeveloped areas. When this entire amendment and the appraisal are collected, some 627 million dinars are possible, in some of the most significant and simplest things, to make budget savings, or to reduce budget deficits by 627 million dinars. To this amendment, the government has made no statement. So she hasn't spoken at all, and she doesn't have any opinion of him. I don't know, it's got to be a professional service, because, as you can see, the amendment is there, it's in the debate shirt, so the government had to have the same amendment. However, I will now try to explain to you why I consider this amendment to be very legal and very economically acceptable. I think it might be acceptable for you, too. At first glance, when looking at where the government, certain ministers and vice-presidents of the government did not take account and did not listen to the prime minister that everyone must behave in accordance with the economic crisis and that it must be spared, since the prime minister told all Serbian citizens that they would not live up next year and not be better than this year and that we should all be spared and spared, that there is no waste in the budget, which, by nature of things, should first apply to his vice-presidents, ministers, and also to everyone else. Since that is not the case, his vice presidents disobeyed him, the ministers did, too. The Serbian government will cost Serbia next year, only the government, ministers and their cabinets, 375 million dinars more than this year. This is clearly seen in the explanation in Section 3. So that's about 4.5m euros, or fourm euros will cost more the Serbian government than it cost this year. All the same jobs were done both this year and the previous year, but next year, since the economic crisis, people will work harder and will cost fourm euros more only ministers and vice-presidents of the government. I believe that certain items - services per contract and travel costs, such as with Deputy Prime Minister Dacic, 24 million, Deputy Prime Minister Djelic 25 million, Deputy Prime Minister Dinkic 27 million, Deputy Prime Minister of Krkobic 18 million, too large and they should be less, in order to show that they can be saved. In addition, in other classifications, in order not to explain individually, I have also suggested a reduction for those things that are unnecessary, and I believe that they are unnecessary or that they may be less because, compared to the previous year, these services by contract and travel costs are increasing almost by the rule everywhere. I can only doubt that the reason why it cannot be shown or is not popular in the department of staff in the state administration is an increase in the number of civil servants, but will increase the item for services per contract, so people will engage, that it is a detour. I know that's how it is done, but I'm sorry, I don't think the citizens of Serbia and the taxpayers will be able to handle it next year and that there are more priority tasks, especially from the aspect my predecessor mentioned earlier, that this year the budget will be down to nearly 30 billion, and that next year the budget will be very likely to be up to 80%, so it takes much more belt tightening than is proposed here, and here, at least with the prime minister and vice president, there will be no tightening than the spread of the belt. In the amendment, I proposed something that I also suggested in the previous debate when we talked about budget rebalancing, which is an increase in the appraisal -- subsidies to public enterprises and organisations, and for some 500 million dinars. Of course, I found savings in certain items in the budget, and this increase is intended to pay back the backlog of EI Nis workers and the Nis Machine Industry. As this year's budget, therefore, provides for 200 million dinars for 2008 to pay back the backlogs of the Zastava group, and for the workers of the Electronic and Machine industry there are no dinars, and the next budget provides for 212 million to pay back the backlogs of the Zastava group, and yet for the workers of the Electronic and Machine Industry there are no funds, I think it is far too much and it would be extremely incorrect not to accept this kind of thing and not to adopt it. Why would the workers of the Electronic and Machine Industry be second-class citizens and workers and the workers of the flag Kragujevac workers? I understand that it is necessary to help people who have not received long salary in the flag, but why should this same criterion not apply to workers from Nis or somewhere else in southern Serbia, who are far more affected than they are, for example, at the edges of Shumadia, Belgrade or Vojvodina? One criterion can't apply to one and the other to the other. I'm sorry, in order for the country to be normal, but still live stablely, there must be some balance and there must be satisfaction in justice. If there is no satisfaction with justice, if people are dissatisfied, if they are believed to be citizens of the second order, there will be no happiness in this country. I ask you to consider this amendment, because you cannot, on the one hand, give too much space to the vice-presidents of the government to do whatever they want with the budget, that you cannot oppose them to reduce their appetites, and that, on the other hand, they are pushing money wherever they want it to be. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development have 23 billion dinars available through various countries. Special Government Programmes. No one knows where it is going, but only where Minister Dinkic will resolve it, he will send it there because he wants to buy voters' votes in this way. You can't let that happen. If so, then this budget cannot be adopted in this way. About regional development and what the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is doing really does not need to be spent too much. The budget item for next year, as far as regional development is concerned, says the ministry will spend a great deal of money next year to create a development strategy, produce sublegal acts, legislation and engage experts. As the law is drafted and adopted in the Assembly, there will be no more need for regional development. From direct subsidies to regional development, there is nothing. Just a few more words about expenses and employees in the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister and various ministries. An increase in state secretaries by 16 is planned next year due to an increase in the volume of work. In each cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers, for example, you have this with the minister of police and vice-president of the government of seven advisers, with the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration also seven advisers, the economic development of five advisers, and Krkobbic has five advisers, he saw that it was modern, perhaps someone else from his family will be home. Believe it or not, the Vice-Presidents of the Government spend their money in the permanent cost of renting space and accompanying equipment for holding meetings. Each of the vice-presidents of the government rents a special space for holding meetings. Is it possible for the vice presidents of the government, sitting in so many buildings, to rent room for meetings and meeting equipment? If that's not true, then whoever's putting together this budget, who's writing the arguments, must first look at what it says. If it is true, then it is a shame and I think that this budget is not hollow, not that there is room for criticism, but I really think that the MPs of the opposition are very abstentioned in the criticism of this budget. Please consider, in particular, this appraisal which concerns subsidies for the payment of the backlogs of workers who have worked for years in companies that do not make income and profit. Many of them have not received salaries for more than 30-40 months, have not been associated with their employment, cannot exercise their rights in the field of health and social protection, and they cannot and should not be citizens of the second order. If we treat those who live in undeveloped areas this way, then you can expect only two results: either people will go where they can secure their existence or they will have to rise up and organise social riots, because injustice is the thing that affects the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11897	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11898	Ladies and gentlemen, respected Serbian citizens, the SRS has invested around 130 amendments to this budget, in a desire and intention to improve the text of the proposed law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. The amendment submitted by fellow Lapcevic is certainly effective and should be accepted in any case. But what is important at this point, I want to say as a serious man to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the campaign against the SRS and the media that deliberately inform the public that the SRS is guilty and will be guilty if it is not adopted in time for the 2009 budget, that is pure fiction, that is manipulation and brainwashing of our citizens. The SRS wants this budget to be reduced, as from 2001 to today, the 12.5 budget of the Republic of Serbia has been increased. This increase in the budget of the Republic of Serbia means dragging your hands to your shoulders in the pockets of taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, respected Serbian citizens, Serbia has the largest administration in the world, in addition to 25 ministries, the Republic of Serbia has 111 bodies and funds, so it is no wonder that the 2009 budget is planned to be 750 billion dinars. The Republic of Serbia has, as I said, 25 ministries and has 111 republican authorities and funds. Let's see, I'll talk later about what countries in the world as many ministries have and how many users of their citizens' budgets have. Who are these rodents and rodents of the Serbian budget? It's 17 administrations, 14 agencies, 11 funds, five directorates, nine offices, six services, four inspectorates, three offices, three councils. The most burdened globally by a massive administration is the next users who use the budget of the Republic of Serbia and our poor peasant, and our poor worker and citizen, both pensioners and people with disabilities. These are: National Assembly, but the National Assembly, unlike other quite different criteria, has, in relation to the other far more modest in the spending of budgetary resources; it is not understandable and we do not know for what reasons this kind of funding is planned for the President of the Republic, Government and cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Government, the cabinet of the First Vice-President of the Government for European Integration, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, the cabinet of the Vice-President of the Government of the Social Policy, the Secretary-General of the Government, the Office for Media Co-operation, the Office for the Anti-Corruption, the Office for the Management of Staff, the Office of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia for the Social Affairs of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Supreme Court of Justice, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of These are the users of the budget that I think are extremely bulky and that in the world is the most massive, which I would say. One user and one government, which is ineffective and not in the capacity of our citizens. This is a government that isn't just tossing fingers or hands to elbows, it's dragged its hand with tax bonds to its shoulder. As a result, the SRS has made such a large number of amendments in order to relieve the so-called burdens and tax obligations that the government wants to impose on our poor citizens in the Republic of Serbia. This government is competing to see how many cars are going to have audium, Mercedes and the most expensive jeeps in the world. This government is competing with America as many ministries as it should, and dear brothers and sisters, there are other criteria in the world and the number of ministries is quite different. If you consider countries in the environment, so Germany has 13 ministries, and we have 25. You see these rodents I've listed, 111 of them, so they're rats that ate everything alive. How many billions are allocated to special services? What special services are these? Where do these services show up? Where do the MPs see special services being spent, for what purposes? Who's controlling them? No one's in control. As many as the minister says he needs, for his needs in his view, the government is immediately programming in the draft budget, coming out to the MPs and the MPs have no insight. I'm surprised, I'm surprised, and I can't understand, Mr. Democrats, where you are to go out for a pay phone to defend your budget. Gentlemen of the coalition in power, come out, don't defend yourself by silence, I have defended criminals who have committed certain crimes, so when they should have been in their interest, you should have told them, you have the right to defend yourself by the Constitution and by the CAP. Now you see, it is in action to defend the silence of members of the coalition in power. It would be nice, because you have submitted amendments, gentlemen from the DS and coalition in power, come out and don't defend yourself with silence, you have your own opinion, don't submit your opinions to someone else, don't fall under influence. You will be asked by your fellow citizens from those places where you come from as MPs, they will ask why so many taxes, why the budget has been increased 12 times since 2001. You'll be asked by the citizens. You have to give them a valid explanation. Does our citizens, as Mr Krasic says, have 12 times our citizens lived better than in 2001? They don't live. Hundreds of thousands have been out of work since 2001, with thousands, two, three or five jobs each day. Privatisation, conducted through the Ministry of Privatisation and the Privatisation Agency, has robbed workers of the Republic of Serbia. Where are those 1,000-euro shares promised to citizens? Serbian citizens have been promised thousands of euros in shares will be paid. But not only what they were promised, but what you're going to do now with those citizens who gave up their stock in some companies and enterprises where they had fewer shares, but they didn't realize them. What happened? These citizens and those workers signed in, according to government and Mladjan Dinkic's recommendation, but what happened? At least, according to one of my estimates, this data can be incorrect, I can't claim it, I can check it out, and only then to claim this fact, all those who went to make a statement to the competent court, who gave up their actions in their former companies, have paid an over-the-count statement relating to the enrolment of actions for them. What's up? If two million of them were in Serbia, the state budget and the state were being unfounded because they robbed the segment, and people were being robbed on that basis. To me from the Jasenovo Agricultural Association in Nova Varosha, they asked the citizens what we were going to do to verify the court statements and which we left there, those who had no value, they were looking forward to the sky to receive a thousand euros, especially if the family worked two or three, they were happy, here's the chance that we could at least buy 100 sheep or two or three cows, so we could deal with bar cattle. That's not gonna happen. There's none of those 500 grand hiring workers. On the contrary, from day to day thousands are left without a job. What happens -- instead of when developed countries occur when the global crisis and countries with the greatest capitalist potential take restrictions, reduce their budgets, reduce administration, reduce excise duties, reduce VAT, you gentlemen from the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not notice and increase that. Look, please... You're not worth yelling at, you're not worth yelling at. You're going around the budget, I repeat, like a cat around a hot oatmeal, don't touch it. It will not be possible, there are Serbian radicals and there is the opposition of the Republic of Serbia, which must indicate, which must respect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and protect them from pests. When you said I wasn't increasing my tone, so I have to feel because I know the citizens are damaged, so at least I have to express some emotions, I guess I have my emotions. Speaking of which, and speaking of budgets, where, Mrs. Minister Dragutinovic, is the parliamentary budget control? In Article 92. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is foreseen as a constitutional category of parliamentary budget control. The implementation of all budgets is also controlled by the State Audit Institute. What did you forget about her? Is it there or isn't it? The constitution was passed in 2006, two years passed, and you don't have a state auditor. Having one, poor man sitting there, hating himself in one office with three officials in the former Federal Assembly, that's your state auditor?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11899	People's MPs, time available to your MP group has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11900	Can I just get a few more notes? He won't mind me, I know you're in favor of some of my allegations, and that's why I'm free to speak to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11901	I don't agree with any of your allegations.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11902	I tried to test you whether you were in agreement or not, and you confirmed that you were not in agreement. Parliament must be responsible for the government's supervision and for its interpretation of costs. I'll get back to you later. I'm sorry if I took up some of your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11903	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 3 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11904	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of the proposal for this budget, Section 3, Chapter 3, point 14, function 10, economic classification 423, name of contract service, in columns 6 and 8 of the amount of 27 million is replaced by 7 million. In Article 5, Section 14, function 420, economic classification 451, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in column 6, the amount of 17,285,000 is replaced by 17,305,000, and in column 8, the amount of 17,885,000 is replaced by 17.905,000. In order to simplify citizens of Serbia who do not know what economic classifications, divisions, functions and heads are, I asked the Office for Sustainable Development to drop underdeveloped areas of services under contract with 27 million and to transform these 20 million subsidies to public non-financial enterprises of the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water industry, to invest these 20 million in additional subsidies, more specifically in agriculture. What is clear, in the coming period which will not be easy at all in 2009, especially for agriculture, we must worry in advance. The land will be processed, it will give birth to the economic situation that has hit us, but what about the country's product is the question. First of all, I would like to establish the activities of this Office for Sustainable Development and I must tell you, by reading its activities and obligations that they had clearly shown that I was right, me and the SRS parliamentary group, when we asked to cut costs for this office. I'll give you only a few examples, and in the course of my presentation, you can come to the conclusion of what I was about to say. He says this, Dr Rajko Peric, State Secretary: In order for undeveloped areas to be drawn from the long-term social seal to be given money, imagine, money must be given, above all, to build a good travel network, but also electricity and water and sewerage, as well as to raise citizens' standards, because it is areas that have been demographically extinct for decades. The first step is to build roads. Here is the conclusion of a very simple one that this office has brought, and these are the conclusions that need special studies, special preparations, special plans, and that's what hasn't been bothering us since 2000, but before that, but we remembered in 2009, that in undeveloped areas there are no roads, no water, and that's a priority. I don't want to talk about other things, wireless Internet, cable, heat, gasification, it takes another 200 million to get there, but in the course of the story, we'll get there. Here's how problems are solved about it. He says the money is mostly from the NIP, the rest is directly from the budget, and this is what the Ministry is trying to do, as Peric adds, to take care of even regional development through 700 projects, as many as there are at the moment. When approving funds, Prelic adds, it is also taken care of to come out and meet municipalities that have more modest budgets, which are the most in eastern and southern Serbia. Just one piece of information. A few days later, the minister in charge of the area said, according to Minister Sulejman Ugljanin, who runs the Sustainable Development Service, the problem scan is under way, so he does not know that there are 700 projects, which have for decades been our most underdeveloped municipalities. That's not true at all. The municipalities have become the most underdeveloped since the year 2000 since you came to power, until then something could once be done in a state factory, and I'm going to give you an example of what factories they are, but now more of this one-sided application, the CEFT and other agreements that you have made in this assembly, it's hard to live on, but I'll explain it to you in the next period. It says: projects like this apply, emphasizes Ugljanin, and achieves sustainable development of undeveloped municipalities. Imagine what the man said. And to fight poverty in them. I guess it doesn't make sense that you have poverty in underdeveloped municipalities, because these two problems go hand in hand. This is a huge mind that's been laid out, but that's not the essence of the story. What's the point of the story? Let go of the seminars, congresses, going abroad, travel and services by contract, for which you have dedicated 27 million. There is no need for that mind to conclude that it takes road, water and electricity to start developing. How to develop in these conditions that you've made for them, we'll talk about it later. I'd just like to give you an example of the Lebanese municipality. It's the poorest, let's say, municipality, where the former textile factory "Exportext", stretches to 13 acres of land and has firmly preserved facilities. What's the problem? Many companies are interested in the location, as well as one Belgrade for the production of natural juices. At this stage, the first factory would employ 150-500 workers, or depends on the cooperatives, as many would be, which would mean a real boom for the Lebanese. But what's the problem there? That's the problem this office won't face. It is land owned by the Republic. Or the reason investors go around the Lebanese are unresolved property-legal relations around the land, whether they're factory, whether they're state, whether they're municipal, doesn't matter. These problems when they are solved, when that office sits down, puts pressure on the judiciary, puts pressure on the competent authorities, you can get very easily to the product. But some studies are listed here, stenograms are drawn from some congressional meetings that are totally unnecessary and that bring nothing for undeveloped municipalities. What's also very important because we wanted to force agriculture with this amendment is to draw attention to privatisation. We can start-up loans, we can give soft loans, they claim, I've already talked about it, you can give whatever kind of development cluster you want, anything, if you don't face a fight against crime and corruption, especially in privatisation and especially in agriculture. I'll give you one example. The man took some milkmaker, she was privatized a year ago. Agricultural producers who supplied it with raw milk for years say while it was state-owned that the problem was not there, they were regular and factual on the day they were bringing in the milk they were getting the money. Now that that dairy is privatized, they come in front of it and spill milk. He says, as long as we're free, I'm free to spill, offer me tires, offer me batteries, I can't feed that cow, I'm free of such a milkmaker. The owner of the dairy says I can't pay the taxes, I can't pay this, I can't pay that. Give the subsidies to repay the debts. Give the subsidies to get out of the minus. Help, make it worth his while. He'll get it back. No, you've imposed a unilateral application of this agreement on him. Now some milk will come, who knows where, with who knows what quality. What's he gonna do? He's gone, too, and this peasant is gone, too. Then let me remind you that there's been a privatisation that reverses agriculture when it comes to the sugar affair. You know that the sugar affair was current in your fight against corruption and crime in Sabela action. In all that action, one affair was brought about that ban on sugar exports. How much that ban has damaged farmers, and to this day and day no one knows. I'll also remind you of CEFT's agreement. How many CEFs have damaged agriculture? How much did the construction mafia damage agriculture by turning agricultural parcels into industrial zones? Here I also wanted to give you an example of a municipality in Belgrade, the municipality of Surcin, the suburban municipality. So, let me introduce you to the details. The town's statutes, which was passed a few months ago, abolished 100% of the municipalities of suburban municipalities. Sometimes suburban municipalities could dispose of city-building land as users, it is known that the state is the owner, and that they are the users of the municipality. Now this statute shuts down all the land that belonged to the use of the municipality now belongs to the city's construction directorate. Aware of the fact that the statutes have been in force since January 2009, municipalities have been managing and making a major abuse. Now I'm going to tell you how it was done in the Surchin municipality. The president of the Surcin municipality schedules an extraordinary session and asks to lower the price of the tenant from three and a half dinar to a dinar and a half meters. And he says if he wants to take 99 years, we'll give him 30% off. What did he do now? He took the price of a centimeter and a half off. Now I'm going to tell you there wouldn't be any other abuses. It's 128,242 metres square square of state land, whose user is the municipality of Surcin, in Dobanovci, Slatine, cadastrian plots, now I don't want to read about not wasting my time. Killing the price at an extraordinary session of the assembly, because this property will belong to the city, and it is the same party in both the city and the municipality, but there is no income in its budget, the president of the DS, killing the price, giving a 30 per cent rent from both 99 and 10 years old, damaged the budget, for example, the city of Belgrade for about 10 million dinars. Imagine that. Imagine, for an extra location located by the highway, next to the bypass to bow down to someone. I've even turned that into a euro. So, in order not to waste time, three times the market price is estimated, with a 30% discount on 99 years is 5,713,181. dinar or 67,211 euros. In a different case, it would be 99 years 19,043,937 dinars or 224,050 euros. Imagine the difference. That's the difference that was given to whoever paid for these to come to the municipality of Surcin to power, the one who paid that out of 35 councilmen, how many the municipalities of Surcin, 15 got the SRS, to gather everyone else, to come to power and the one who's now buying that land must return it. That's not the point. This is where they took their land. The point is, there's no such thing as crime and corruption. How did we come to that conclusion? I'll tell you now. In the IMR, in the municipality of Rakovica, where tractors are produced, where the Arab world longs for our tractors, where it pays in advance, where it gives money in advance -- just make it, just do it, we give the tractor cheaper than it costs to produce it. What's going on now? The supervisory board of the firm, aware of the situation and the loss, submits criminal charges against the director, submits a request to the tax administration. There's a budget inspection coming in and arrests the director. Arrested Ranko Vukovic, Director General of IMR. The finance ministry, the Tax Administration, the Regional Centre of Belgrade, Filijala Rakovica, the number of conclusions that I do not read, the day of that and sent a report to the SUP and a request to arrest him for unwitting work in business, economic damage, abuse of official position. What happens next? He was deprived of his freedom in 24.7.2006. He's been in custody for 30 days. It is burdened that it damaged the AD IMR by 1,562,000 euros. Imagine. The second municipal prosecutor's office is being prosecuted, so the number of cases, without bringing charges, is waiting to become obsolete or to disappear from the IMR. The same director, Ranko Vukotic, is being held in the Commercial Court for sale of the hotel's working resort in Zlatibor in Partizan waters, 750 square meters, with land of 16 ha 159 m2. The land totaled 63.5m dinars, and the value of the hotel was over fourm euros. Do you know how much the hotel was sold for? For 800,000 euros, something out of four million was sold. Where is this Ranko Vukotic today? What company is he in now? On whose orders does he sell this, and who's protecting him so he doesn't answer for this? Why did we destroy the factory? Because he did someone's job. I heard he's in Telekom now. Think right now that Telekom won't be long either, the SRS memo will appear again, so we still have to convince you that your people are pulling back, and you know it well. What happens next? Now there's another abuse that the Privatisation Agency doesn't respond to. The privatisation agency made its decision that funds would be used from a possible sale to settle obligations, for backlogs, according to the Belgrade Trade Court's solution. He didn't do it. You know what he did? He respected 40% of it... (President: National MP, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. I'm done, 40 percent respected, and that's who he wanted. You stole their fields in this way, one example, you sold the land to the tycoons, you destroyed the factory, you didn't give them agricultural tools to work with, you robbed them, and now you impose this unilateral application of this agreement on them. Let me just point out one more conclusion that's been recorded here... (President: 16 minutes. I end up, which is that this budget was made for that principle -- both the prime minister and the ministers in number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11905	Anyone else want a word? On Article 5, sections 3 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11906	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The draft law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia and the amendment refer to section 3 of Chapter 3, point 3.12, i.e. the Serbian Government's Air Service. The amendment reads: "In Article 5, Section 3, Chapter 3, point 3.12, function 450, in the economic classification of 423, the contracts in column 6, amounting to 13,800,000 are replaced by five million, and in column 8, the amount of 43,400,000 dinars is replaced by 34,600,000 dinars. ". On the basis of the numbers exported, it can be seen that the amendment requires a reduction of services under the contract for a total of 8,800,000 dinars foreseen for the purposes, as stated in the explanation, staff training and maintenance of only two government aircraft, as stated in the government's statement of refusal. It is well known that the official deficit of this budget will be around 50 billion dinars and the SRS has therefore invested a large number of amendments, to cover a good part of this deficit precisely by reducing unnecessary expenditure, which the government has already committed to individual users or at least redistribute more correctly. Now it comes back as a boomerang what the SRS has warned a few years ago, where it will lead us to megalomanical state and ministerial apparatus, where we will be led by the formation of unnecessary agencies. We warned that inventing some directorates and centres would one day become a big ballast on the back of Serbian citizens, who fill the budget with tax duties. As far as the first part of the amendment concerns the Air Force, I find it difficult for me, as well as for many citizens across the Republic of Serbia, because they will immediately remember Bojan Krishte and his professional qualities at the 2 million-month airport. We are very little that state money was spent on the airport, i.e. that much of the profits remained in the pockets of individuals, such as Krist, rather than going to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia should especially allocate funds for this government, as I would say, a flying park and as they said in their explanation, for the inspections of both aircrafts. The question of the right would be - what is cheaper, whether to use domestic air carrier services, to use JAT maintenance services, or to make a service, to throw money at, as explained in the explanation, expert checks on flight simulation devices and in international centres. I wonder if it's NASA? For the extension of the permit of flight, non-flying and cabinet staff, I didn't know that licenses were issued to some kind of cabinet and non-flying staff, and that it cost. State officials, civil servants, directors of large public enterprises, e.g. as Kristo, at least they used our domestic planes for their travels and seminars. On the contrary, it is more expensive, more comfortable and more comfortable to drive Lufthanz, so the flight to the same destination costs JAT 50,000 to 60,000 dinars and Lufthanz 100,000 to 120,000. Of course, the cost of the company, more specifically the state of Serbia. You probably remember that verse by the famous rocker Bora Djordjevic 20 years ago -- in the event of a war, escape exclusively by JAT's planes. Today, the second is fashion, as soon as radicals have exposed a major robbery of state-owned enterprises, directors, public-owned companies in Serbia, immediately experts have left for the world as ten angry pirates, but imagine the impreciseness, the planes of foreign companies. Why? Are they not safe in the safety of our aircraft, so they escape by other people's planes? What kind of message did the users give domestic airline services? It's like if someone built a bridge, they couldn't cross it. As far as this Air Force government is concerned, it is better to reduce its own activity on the transport of our statesmen and ministers around the world. Wherever they go around the world, they harm Serbia. Either they force us into Eulex, or they fly Djelic to Brussels and tell him there's nothing to do with the Schengen and the SAA. Or Tadic goes to New York to defend us, and in the meantime he apologizes to everyone, from Devgelija to Triglav and beyond. Or else everyone in the set at Olli Rehn in Brussels, he shared their tasks and they returned, with the help of this state air service, thinking about how to sell what was still unsold in Serbia. Then, they think about how to arrest Ratko Mladic, think about how to tell us there is no increase in pensions, salaries and standards and there is nothing from the EU. That's why it's better if they fly as little as possible. It's probably the only trip on which we've been hit with the slightest political damage was a trip to the Beijing Olympics. In Chapter 3, point 12, the total budget funds are allocated to the Serbian government's Air Service, 231,002,000 dinars, which means a dozen directors, as Kristo, would be their annual salary. Now I am taking the opportunity to ask the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - what about the control of the Public Enterprise Airport, where are the results, is there any irregularities, what about Krist and the others? You promised this, to insist on the SRS, that you would give all information regarding this inappropriate robbery to the public. What about the investigation? Nothing. If you'd taken such things and steps in time and implemented the laws, the deficit would have been smaller, companies and state-rich. But you didn't, and it's a great responsibility for the Serbian government itself to its own citizens. This amendment proposes that the amount of 8 million and 800,000 dinars be transferred to subsidies for the development and improvement of agricultural production, by increasing the figure 420 in heading 14, under economic classification 451, the amount of 17 billion and 285 million by these 8. 800,000, so the classification would increase to 17 billion 293 million dinars. Every farmer in Serbia is well aware of what a difficult situation has led them to the government's previous rule towards agrarian. The fact is that the state has reduced by a quarter the funding for agriculture and the promotion of agricultural production, which contributes to what has been designed by "friends" in Brussels, which is the task - to destroy in Serbia any attempt to deal with serious agricultural production and turn Serbia, the agricultural country, into a market for the placement of agricultural products from the EU, which is just allowing them to unilaterally apply the Trade Agreement and the SAA. Seed material prices, artificial fertilisers, chemical resources, various funds for farming went to heaven, so in Serbia, what will one day cost the country dearly, and that is the dying of the village. In the absence of a subsidy to agriculture, if the re-promaterial accumulates and if our market is entered products of far cheaper but suspicious quality compared to domestic products. Take a look at the big markets, the malls, and you'll see where the fruits and vegetables come from, as well as other agricultural products. All the time, the government in Serbia has been accusing the opposition, and most of all, the SRS, that we are guilty of the adoption of the budget so late. For the thousandth time, radicals reiterate that the government's budget was required to deliver to the National Assembly and MPs 40 days ago. It's not done. The only one to blame is the government in Serbia. This daily indictment of the SRS by the ruling coalition reminds us all of that bass about the wolf who accused the lamb to mutilate his water while drinking on the brook, though the lamb was downriver from him. The public in Serbia will understand who is the cause of the troubles that have hit all layers of the population. If it is to believe what certain ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia publicly promise, with their signature and seal, then the citizens of Serbia should not worry about dealing with the upcoming economic crisis in 2009, and this is why - Mladjan Dinkic is the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia and vice-president of the same government. On 21 April 2008, the minister made a public promise to 5,300,000 addresses in Serbia. This is what Dinkic's letter literally referred to every house in Serbia looks like. This is what he told the citizens who wrote free of charge, in translation of the worthless action: "In accordance with the law you obtained the right to cash compensation based on the sale of the rest of the state's shares in enterprises that were mostly privatised in the previous period." Ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to what Mladjan Dinkic promises to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia: "The payment of money based on this basis can be expected in the first quarter of 2009 to your dinar bill which you stated in the application." Dear citizens, ask the government to ask Minister Dinkic for payment of money based on these worthless actions in the first quarter of 2009, i.e. by 31 March 2009. The promise made, evidence exists throughout Serbia, and if that does not happen, you are suing Dinkic for fraud, for inflicted mental pain and for purposeless spending of budget funds to print this letter, which is in fact a pre-election colorful lie. If we take these letters to 5,300,000 addresses, the question is, who paid for it? Let one envelope with paid postage, a bit more luxurious-looking and a printed letter cost 50 dinars, we come to the suspicion that this venture of Mladjan Dinkic cost Serbia, believe it or not, 265,000 dinars. Now if we look at this whole division 3, point 12, we'll see that the total amount of funds from the government's Air Service budget is in column six-- 231 million dinars. The full amount of budget for the government's Air Service is less than the amount Mladjan Dinkic spent sending letters to deceive citizens that the actions would already be implemented in the first quarter of 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11907	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11908	Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to support the government's opinion. I don't think she has accepted this amendment for a reason, because the actual increase in the agrarian budget proposed through this amendment is so symbolic that nothing would essentially contribute. Given the ongoing debate and most likely such a situation that SNS MPs will not be able to explain their amendments that they have just submitted to the agrarian budget, I would like to inform the MPs, and, above all, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what kind of relationship is essentially the SRS in this budget-making process, and therefore also the agrarian budget, had. As chairman of the Agriculture Committee, I can say that there are majority opposition in that committee. However, due to the lack of members of the SRS board, it turned out that the committee had to support the agrarian budget through the will of MPs of the majority. So, respected citizens, self-evaluate who is co-operating with the position, primarily DS and other parties that make up this government. The vote was six for five against. SNS MPs, DSS, NS, voted against, while SRS MPs were not at the session. What, just as the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Man who is and while he was in the SRS, was just the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and followed the country's state policy in the field of agrarians, I can also express my personal conviction, as well as the opinion of the expert public, ultimately and most MPs, that the agrarian budget has been drastically reduced by 2009. This government that has proposed this budget to the National Assembly most directly undermines the further development of such a significant economic branch for our country as agricultural production. It is simply inadmissible that the agrarian budget, which was 26 billion and 95 million in 2007, in 2008 27 billion and 163 million, and with the budget rebalance around two months ago, the agrarian budget was up to 32 billion 895 million. If that's all it's looked at, then it's really absolutely unacceptable that the 2009 agricultural budget, offered by the government of the Republic of Serbia, is only 25 billion and 607 million. Certainly, the agrarian budget is the most allocated for subsidies in the area of agricultural production, as all the countries in the transition process have revitalised their agricultural production and improved, so that in our country too, more seriously, in the agrarian budget around 2004, and since that year, around 22 billion 354 million have been allocated from the total budget, which at that time accounted for 5.33% of the budget. The proposed 2009 budget, worth 25 billion and 607 million, is essentially 3.66% of the budget. If about five billion dinars of the Ministry of Agriculture's own funds are rejected, then the agrarian budget, in terms of the total budget size, is only 2.92%. Furthermore, what makes agricultural production important, and the way it has been in our country in recent years, with the kind of funding that was up to this year, is that in 2008, agricultural products worth billions and $620 million were exported for about a billion and $200 million. So, an external trade surplus of about $408m has been achieved, which says it has a basis for better financing of agricultural production, i.e. in a larger volume of funding and that it has nevertheless gained competitiveness in the European and global markets. The share of agriculture in total exports achieved during this year is somewhere at 17%. So that's not negligible. I am sure that agricultural producers, who have learned how much agrarian budget is planned, are seriously thinking that they will not be able to build on their agricultural production in this area and that surely this participation in the total exports of our country will be less, thereby increasing the external trade deficit, which is otherwise extremely expressed in us. The budget is the largest one to subsidise agricultural production and therefore maintains a good share of that agricultural production. But given the reduction and these funds, in 2008, with a budget of 27 billion and 163 million, the subsidies were 16 billion and 220 million. With a budget rebalance that is essentially 32 billion and 895 million, nearly 33 billion, subsidies are 22 billion and 545 million. In the agrarian budget of 25 billion and 607 million, subsidies are 17 billion and 285 million. What the Ministry of Agriculture and during the debate on the Agriculture Committee, when it was discussed on the agrarian budget, and also in the statements by the Minister of Agriculture, so to speak, calmed our public, above all, agricultural producers, it is a promise that these funds will be able to finance payments per hectare of arable area, even they plan to increase that amount from 10,000 to 12,000, meaning somewhere at 150 euros. I sincerely hope it does. However, agricultural producers know that although this large agrarian budget was in 2008, even though it was so isolated for subsidies, over four billion dinars will be outstanding subsidies to be transferred in 2009. I'm asking where and how they're going to settle those debts, because based on the working surface, somewhere around 500 million dinars are not paid to farmers. Furthermore, the subsidy is also compensated, i.e. milk production is already undermining, in 2008 it is already reduced, and it will not increase, as there will be no easy space in this coming 2009 and we are witnessing that milk producers are dissatisfied with the processing process and the announcement that since January 1st, there will be a reduction in the dairy price, which can affect definitely further the production itself, given that it is expensive, and especially that a good portion of the premium will not be paid in 2008, but will be transferred in 2009. It has subsidised over the past years and has stimulated agricultural production exports, which will be compromised. Then, support for the insurance of agricultural production is also subsidized, then the promotion measures in livestock, a boost to the heroine, or about 20,000 still claims for compensation for the delivery of tow heroine has not been paid to the agricultural producers and will be transferred in the coming year. The development of agricultural production in rural areas has also been subsidized from the agrarian budget, however, the volume of subsidisation has been reduced this year, and with this budget it will be even harder to achieve. The agrarian budget regresses a lot, primarily regresses breeding livestock, then regresses inputs into wartime production, means oil, artificial fertilizer, plant seed, which will also be compromised with this agrarian budget, and will be simply inexplicable. A particular problem is the abolition of the lending of agricultural production from the budget, and it has been transferred to business banks, compared to the overall economic and financial situation in the world, the increase in interest in our country's credits to credits, there will be a serious risk of crediting agricultural production and subsidisation of interest, as since mid-2008 only interest on loans have been subsidized through the agrarian budget, and in the long-term, for the purchase of machinery, the raising of greenhouses and plastics, the gulf systems, the purchase of breeding livestock, etc. A particularly agrarian budget has damaged the veterinary profession and my fellow veterinarians are extremely unhappy. There are announcements that they may already be present here tomorrow in front of the National Assembly and the expressions of protest, because over 400 million dinars the agrarian budget owes to veterinary cells, specialist veterinary and scientific institutes, for the work done under the implementation of the animal health care programme, and especially by this drastic reduction of subsidies for the veterinary profession. It's not classic subsidisation, it's financing the implementation of the health care programme. With a billion and six million, as much as in 2008, or two billion and 48 million after rebalancing, it has been reduced to only 816 million dinars, which will pose a very serious threat to the implementation of the animal health programme, which can have a direct impact on the overall health of animals, as well as people. Then, it can affect the impediment to export products from animals, from raw meat through other products, so that they have the basis and notices of agricultural producers and all other entities financed from the agrarian budget to express their concerns in the coming period, but also dissatisfaction. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Government must be prepared for these answers. I also appeal that, if possible, amendments submitted by the MPs are accepted. The SNS parliamentary group has proposed that subsidies increase by 5.5 billion dinars, increase the veterinary administration's budget by 500 million and give the Water Directorate around 180 million dinars. I hope there will be understanding and that the amendment will be accepted. If the budget is not adopted, then the rebalancing is. in the new budget debate, to have in mind what I said and much that will come to the finance, agriculture and government ministries in the meantime. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11909	Anyone else want a word? Milorad Krstin wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Articles 104, 225 and 226. Mr. Mašić, unfortunately, he's still standing on your lapel, white as he was your badge - Dr. Vojislava Seselj, and this smaller one now you have, it's given you DS, it can't cover how little he's on the side. But don't blame the SRS for making a big contribution to the budget vote, because we weren't on the board, so the relationship was 6:5. In fact, the five of you voted against it. It's out of humiliation for me to come to the board where you chair. First, Mr. Masic, 57 MPs of the SRS, and 21 who gave you the DS cannot have the chairman of the board, because that belongs to the SRS, so the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. You know that well. Here, since you've been scratching the bear, the next time you hold the Agriculture Committee, you won't be able to hold it. That's what I promise you. This belongs to the SRS. You can't kidnap that, too. You have kidnapped 21 MPs, but you will not be able to take the board as well, as belongs to the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Industry, the Committee on Agriculture, etc. Therefore, you have no right to say that the SRS did not want to be against the budget that was intended, particularly the division of 14, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. That you're the chairman and you're asking us to walk around holding boards with Sonja Licht, I'm sorry, I won't do that. What does agriculture have to do with Sonja Licht, tell me. Did you send us the material, I don't remember anymore, because when I read - Sonja Licht, it was clear to me. Is that what the Agriculture Committee does? For me to run the Committee on Agriculture, Zoran Mašić and Sonja Licht, I'm sorry, it's out of humiliation. But it should be clear to you that the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture will be from the SRS since the new year, because it belongs to us, it does not belong to you, belongs to the strongest opposition party. After all, according to the head of the parliamentary group, that is what Boris Tadic understood. So, Mr. Maski, we'll see who's gonna be in the O.R. when it's voted, if it comes to him, and who's gonna be out of the O.R. The SRS is against this kind of budget, which is particularly bad at division 14 for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and those harassed peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11911	There is no violation of Article 104, nor has there been any explanation of what would be the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I warn the MPs that without abuse they are using their rights in the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11912	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been thinking about whether there's any basis for me to replicate Mr. Kristin, because you've made such a mess that simply a man can't understand what your invitation to the Rules of Procedure was. The story is that Mrs Sonja Licht is running the Committee on Agriculture, with all due respect to this lady, she is coordinating or is the president of some NGO, which is apparently engaged, among other things, in reducing poverty, and delivering a letter to the Committee on Agriculture, as well as to other committees, on holding meetings. I haven't been to any gathering organized by Sonja Licht since I was in the SRS or in this party. So it does not affect the Committee on Agriculture in any way. Furthermore, whether you accept the presidency or not, you are absolutely not wondering about it, but all the MPs of this assembly and the MPs who are in the Committee on Agriculture, so they decided whether or not I would be president and while I was in the SRS, and now while I was in the SNS. Therefore, I am not afraid of your threats. I will not be surprised that, in accordance with your behaviour as parliamentary groups, you come and do the excesses on the Committee on Agriculture, as you make or do some excesses on some other committees. But it is up to you and your respect for this institution and respect for the personality of us, members of the board, whether agriculture or other committees. Therefore, I am not afraid of your threats and they are not based on anything. So it might be better for you to stop throwing out of place and reacting so hard, because I'm not afraid of you, especially if you know about agriculture, because we've been on the board for four years now. At least, as far as I'm concerned, with all my modest knowledge, I mean, and knowing who you have in your MP group as an acquaintance of agricultural production, you can't endanger me in any way. Thank you. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11913	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11914	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, 225 and 226, as my fellow Serbian counterpart, Zivanovic, would say, everyone. Mr. Masic, for our expertise from the SRS parliamentary group, you can at least talk. I'll tell you that in the last term you begged me for an hour and a half here to let you talk before me, because you don't know what you're gonna say if I start talking about agriculture. There are fellow MPs who can confirm that. It really doesn't make sense. I'm not threatening you at the pay phone that you won't be, that we'll take you out with a chair. On the contrary, it is known that the strongest opposition party belongs to the Committee on Agriculture. For all I know, we're 57, you're 21. I know you guys had some good collections when you were president of the board of directors of the Newsad Fair, but I bought a car on the lease, so I don't keep talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11915	On Article 5, Sections 3 and 14, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11916	Dear MPs, the MP of the SRS, Mr Milorad Buha, submitted an amendment to Article 5, section 3, Chapter 3.6, function 110, in the economic classification of 423, contract-based services, in columns 6 and 8, relating to services under contract, and this is about the Secretary-General of the Government. It's not the mini government here. When you look at how many employees there are in the government, I've said several times that this government, looking at the political aspect of what it wants to cover up, the mini government: it's a little covered up, and it doesn't reveal anything. When you look at the draft budget law, that's where you reveal yourself. You have 112 employees at the General Secretariat of the Government. It's scheduled for the salaries of 178 million dinars. What we can't figure out and accept from the SRS is that contract services need to be provided in the amount of 32 million dinars. What's this secretary general gonna do, what kind of services are they gonna provide? Will it perhaps provide additional services to ministers when they travel? What kind of favors? There is no evidence that you can go out to the MPs and look into the eyes, you gentlemen from the government, from the DS, you defend yourself with silence, but she says from our people that saying, "it's not worth whispering to, it's not worth winking at." It would be very nice for the DS MPs, who have submitted the amendments, to come out and defend their amendments. On the other hand, it is unacceptable that citizens will not accept that no MP from the coalition government comes out to talk about the budget, as much as it needs to explain to the people and taxpayers where they will spend money. It's not there. It means defence by silence. Ladies and gentlemen, that 32 million for contract services, and if MPs have no understanding of any contract, give at least for the current year that is on the loose, at least let's see those contracts, whether they were real, who's locking them up, who's signing them, who's verifying them and who's getting paid when it comes to contracts and services, especially special services. We'll talk about it later. When it comes to government and spending money from the budget, let's see if we have a modest government, do we have an appropriate government the size of the state and the number of inhabitants? We don't. I will remind you, respected citizens of Serbia, for your information and for you, fellow MPs, Hungary has 11 ministries, Albania 14, Romania 15, and how many times larger than Serbia, Bulgaria 17, Montenegro 13, Slovenia 15, Macedonia 15, Croatia 15, BiH 16, Sweden 13 ministries. How much richer is Sweden? Sweden has 16 cars, and the Serbian government has 352 cars. Is that appropriate, is it comparable to one country that takes care of its tax bonds? There's not a word. Norway has 14 ministries, France 17, almost ten times larger than Serbia. What are we talking about that can't cut the budget? If we were a government, Serbian radicals would cut 50% of this budget and what would apply, out of 750 billion dinars, at least 50% would be savings for the citizens of Serbia, and from that it would go at least 100 billion for farmers and farmers, to increase the livestock stock, to process agricultural land, to rebuild the machinery, to plow this Serbian country, rich and native, and to produce for themselves, to produce for the country and to produce for export. Give some money to these farmers to rebuild agricultural production. That's what we live on. Kukat in the SRS media, as an obstacle to whether the 2009 budget will be adopted. It's not the SRS in power. The SRS has not been late for 40 days to deliver the budget to parliament. You're 40 days late. Dear colleagues, within 40 days half of the metro below Belgrade would be built, not if you were 40 days late, had no budget and threatened the media and in the media you said that the SRS is an obstacle to whether it will be adopted. No, we're not the government, we don't have the authority to propose a budget. That's the thing, according to the Constitution, exclusively the government, but the government couldn't have anyone put together to make a deal one night. I'd lock them up right now, lock them up in the basement, and say, make a deal within two hours. You don't want to make a deal with the entire government, the government's resignation, if there's no deal. Citizens must not suffer, there is no one else, that a smart general, some capable and smart general of 90 and 91, that the presidency of the then former SFRY has taken custody in the basement of the General Staff and ordered them to agree within 24 hours, and if they do not agree on an arrest without the former state's citizens staying in peace. Therefore, you can't agree, the Treasury doesn't handle the SRS, you can't blame us, we don't have a good intention of cutting the budget, making it easier for the taxpayers, making the taxes smaller, to be the parliament that controls the spending of the funds. Now I would draw your attention to how it is in parallel law, how it is regulated in the comparative right parliamentary control of the budget. The National Assembly is under Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, has the right, but has the obligation, to fully control the budget. Parliament must be responsible for monitoring the government and explaining its budget costs. Where's the budget, where are those specifications with the invoices and the bills where the money's being spent? It's only foreseen in the draft budget and the budget is passed, the law passed and no one controls it. The government cannot spend money from the budget or impose taxes beyond parliament. This is where the SRS wants to inform Serbian citizens that we are not guilty of the opposition if it is late for budgeting. That's to make it clear to everyone. Why? We repeat for the hundredth time, for 40 days, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not come forward with its proposal to the MPs and parliament. Who's to blame? Well, it's the government's fault. Who's to blame? It's your fault you're in power. You won't blame the opposition for that, you have no right, you have no arguments, you have no facts, you have no evidence. The task of the State Auditor, normised in Article 92(3), is that MPs in the National Assembly of Serbia provide the information they need to control the government with regard to budget spending. I'm looking for a report, Madam Minister, from you I'm asking the budget auditor's report for last year. To submit that report, because you are obliged, the report must be submitted to parliament by the state auditor, parliament must be informed. This is a legislative body. If that were not the case, why would this law be found, you are necessarily defending yourself with this law, and in extreme urgency, you have come before the MPs in the last minute, and now you want to go through the media, you are going to run an attack against the SRS, and the SRS is protecting the citizens, the peasants, the pensioners, the workers, all the employees and the unemployed to be imposed, taxes and cuts as little as possible, so that there can be something left to survive this people. Ladies and gentlemen, in parallel law, just to remind you, in some countries the report by the auditor general is submitted four times before parliament in the course of the year. Take Canada, a report by the state auditor in front of parliament is found four times in Canada. The submission of the report to parliament should be a key, ladies and gentlemen, the key to the caution and success of the state auditor is to see if he has submitted a report to the National Assembly of Serbia, how many years are on the auditor's paper. I repeat, the auditor hates the four employees now in the former Federal Assembly building, and you don't give him rooms, and there's as much space as you want. You're running from the state auditor. He's dangerous, he's more dangerous than the state's attorney, the state's auditor is more dangerous to you than a gun. That's why I'm telling you to get away from him. What's the state auditor's duty? It is up to the MPs to answer the following questions. A little patience: to answer the question whether the government's statements on financial issues are correct, provided by the government in the area of finance. Secondly, whether the taxes and other charges that the Government collects in accounting, are duly recorded because we do not have them. We're like MPs deprived of this data. Is the money approved by the legislator, so parliament to the government, spent on the purpose for which it was intended, do you have proof of that? Give the invoices, the receipts, let's see how many secretaries and where they traveled, let's see how many favors you paid God knows what. Let's see what services he pays. Pays the taxpayer. Do not give these services to pay more taxpayers, give up special services and these services per contract. Key question, Madam Minister, why does Serbia not have an accounting court? Many countries in the world have an accounting court. Will you propose to the Government to submit a proposal to Parliament to pass a law on the accounting court? You know about it. Many countries in the world have an accounting court, and I would only list some, such as: Germany, Austria, Canada, Slovenia and others. They set up an accounting court. Serbia would have to, in addition to other courts, and we have them special and regular and we also have cassation in the new law, we have other trade courts, we have courts for violations, and why Serbia should not have an accounting court. Someone doesn't go into account, because the Court of Auditors was in control, making decisions that must be respected as law. If Serbia had a legal state and a state audit institution and an accounting court, we wouldn't have such a large budget and large taxes, which are said to be taken from citizens, in whose pockets the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through the Tax Administration, dragged its hand, up to its shoulders. We wouldn't have an uncontrollable spending of money for directors of public enterprises at millions, boards of directors and supervisors and their members, and I hope that these days we've been introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11917	Just finish it, Mr. Jojic, but don't be too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11918	I'm not answering again, if you'll excuse me. We would not have had one of the biggest robberies in Serbia, i.e. the robbery of workers' and people's property, i.e. The theft of the Karbamida factory of two Azotara Panchevo, whose bookkeeping value is 45m euros, and the owners, who through the robbery privatisation, with the help of the Privatisation Agency, have unearthed and sold abroad, in Lithuania, for 32m euros and put money in their pocket and did not give the dinars for production. Production in Azotara Pancevo, founded long ago in 1963, which was valuable for Serbian farmers, workers now strike, workers block Petrohemia, will block the refinery... (President: Bring the end. )... That if you deafen yourself from the workers of Azotara, because 1,500, whose families total about 4,000, are now on the street and do not receive wages, and these owners are firing workers, take it upon yourselves to solve these problems, for when the people speak out of the belly, it will be the hardest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11919	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. On Article 5, sections 3 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11920	Dear fellow Members of the People, the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS refers to Article 5, section 3, Chapter 3.6, function 110, in the economic classification of 422 - travel expenses, which relate to travel expenses of the General Secretariat, which are designed to cover 94 million dinars, by proposing that these funds be reduced to 10 million, and the difference is directed to the Plant Protection Authority, i.e. subsidies for public non-financial enterprises and plant protection programmes. The situation used to be such that the General Secretariat worked for the needs of the entire government and probably costs were higher, but it was far more economical, today we have cabinets of ministers, vice-president of the government, and they all multiply those travel costs. I tried to add it up, but I didn't get exactly the right number, because of plasticity, and that our voters and citizens of Serbia would better understand what it was about, travel expenses, let's say, for the National Assembly were designed to be 226 million for 250 MPs and a total administrative apparatus, for the president of the Republic 43 million, that's his cabinet, for the government and cabinet of the Prime Minister only two million, there you were really correct, so to the house and to go back, to Zaječar and to Belgrade. The cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister, there is already a slightly higher cost, but I suppose it is justified, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Integration - travel expenses of eight million and 800, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development two million, the expenses of the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy and Social Affairs 5.5 million, and for the General Secretariat now those 94 million, who are really eyeing. What is the Law on Government and what is the government's business is yours, we've been involved a lot, and we don't feel that we should interfere, every government is organised properly, but it's obvious that we have a very wasteful government and that the budget itself is somehow a compromise of political desires. In a situation where we're affected by the so-called. "Second," as I like to say, is a shortcut to this global economic crisis, to make everyone laugh a little bit, because it is not good at all what it brings us, the recession is across Europe, and only France, imagine, has not declared a recession. You'll ask why. It's because agriculture has seen growth, and there's no recession in France. What does that tell us? That we should take care of our agriculture, since we have declared our own agricultural development a priority. We declared the priority agriculture, but we reduced the amount of funds to about 25% for agricultural subsidies, something between 20% and 25%. I therefore ask this amendment to transfer these funds between 10 and 90 million and these four million, so 84 million to this item of subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, whose schedule and use will be carried out by the Government under its own special act, with confidence that they will do so as best, and the Plant Protection Authority again subsidises public non-financial enterprises and organisations. The means of this appraisal are intended for the plant protection programme. I want to remind you a little bit that you have decided as Government to unilaterally apply the SAA, that this and how it will affect the development of not only agriculture but our economy at all, that 50% of the EU budget is defined for agriculture, so even Brussels realizes how important it is, that we will have to change the rules relating to agriculture. In order for our peasants to understand what this is about, because they exist exactly there in Brussels, in their acts or memos, as they are called, what it is that we have to do. Let's say, if there's an infectious disease on the other side of the continent, let it be in Scandinavia, we're going to have to allocate funds to access some preventive measures. How justified that is, how logical that is at all an explanation question is, but that's their regulations, so if we apply it, we're going to have to allocate funds for something like that. If we want to export duck eggs, for example, to the EU, it will have to be at least five centimeters of diameter. You take the shubler, peasants, measure the width of the egg, if it's more than five centimeters in the EU, if it can't be less, but first you have to learn how to measure it with a chuble. That way, a peach can't be less than 5.6 centimeters. Bananas, though, we don't produce, but in a store that goes across our country it has to be exactly curved by some regulations and it has to be ten centimeters, no less. There's a series of nonsense that will burden us if it comes to that at all, but about that after. It will be necessary to lift customs duties on imports from the EU and allow unlimited imports of seed corn, frozen vegetables and potatoes. I have to remind you, let's say, that we made a surplus in the production of wine and alcohol in 2004, that now, using the SAA, wine can only be on the market, or when we enter the EU, if it comes from registered vineyards that have so-called vineyards. "real planting," which is consistent with the general ban on new plantings. So, if you have vineyards, you have what you have to keep, new ones to plant can't, not give the EU. We will probably be obliged to import wine, vermouth and other wine from fresh grapes, plums and brandy without customs duty. I would like to remind you, Hungary, for example, has been an exporter of cereals, milk, meat, turkeys, etc. in recent years, has been growing imports of agricultural products. It has been since it joined the EU and today 30% is even smaller than it was in 1990, and there, as you know, has been no war or sanctions. Sixty thousand acres is de facto in the hands of Austrian citizens and that is, of course, a special danger, and something like that is happening slowly to us. These countries in our environment, such as Slovenia, had more employees in 91 years than after joining the EU. These are some indicators related to EU entry and preparations for EU accession, and how this will affect our agriculture. With all that in mind, we wanted to help you by thinking that we could reduce these costs, that they were irrational. Let's move them to a place where they will undoubtedly, precisely because they want to join the European Union and go to the European Union, the costs will have to be increased. So there were several of these amendments related to travel costs. We think they're really irrational, we even think that in certain ministries, sometimes you know who the minister is, and who's the secretary, you don't know today, and both the secretary and the minister have a car on their person. We could cut where possible, and that money, as much as it might be like a drop in the sea, even though these millions are huge to us, can be transferred where we could make a much faster profit. It's mostly tertiary activities, and agriculture, if we've declared it an economic branch of priority. I think these amendments could really have been the subject of the Ministry's examination, and of your ministry and government. You could save a little bit on your comfort and help those industries where it's more necessary or those ministries, such as health care, education, where money is always small, and where citizens feel a lot more the lack of that money. This way in this difficult economic situation and in one year that comes to us, and all citizens are terrified of uncertainty, of what it will bring us, it's a little embarrassing to offer in the budget such costs for individual ministries, especially for the government's secretariat, to what my amendment refers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11921	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 3 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Mirovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11922	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 5, paragraph 3. So the amendment has been submitted in connection with the European Integration Office. In the first part of the amendment, it is proposed to cut funds for services under a contract of 23 million 600,000 dinars or according to the official course of the National Bank of Serbia since 19 December 2008 about 274 thousand euros. In the second part of this amendment, and in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, these funds are re-routed within Article 5, more specifically for division 14, function 420, economic classification 451. It is, therefore, part of the budget that regulates the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, or subsidies for public non-financial enterprises. According to the Ministry, these are subsidies for direct payments to farmers, means of modernising machinery and equipment, milk premiums, export subsidies, support for older farmers, land improvement. So it's about concrete goals and concrete resources that can only bring about a better improvement in our agriculture. Also, this amendment should also be adopted because, slightly speaking, of the disputed reasoning set out in the budget. According to that argument, agriculture is reportedly the sector that will benefit most from entering the European Union. But numerous examples from neighbouring European Romania show the opposite. For example, after long-awaited and announced entry into the European Union, Romanian farmers faced the following problems: Romanian cattlemen were obliged to because of the so-called European standards on Karpatha or at 1,500 metres high are supplied with milk coolers. According to Western agencies, if they don't, they'll be forced to sell their herds. Reports from Romania quoted Eugen Gonte as saying, president of a regional cattle association, which stands out -- cattlemen are already leaving the mountains due to difficult living conditions. Many are confused, selling their flocks and going to Italy, France or Spain. The same report states a statement by a Romanian veterinarian who literally says -- we knew that EU entry would strengthen the criteria, but this is like a bomb dropped. If the EU standards finish us off, we will give up holding the herds, so our children will be able to see them only in pictures and museums. In the context of these dreary statements, Romanian farmers also have data on mass eviction from Romania following the country's entry into the EU. These data were otherwise published on the BBC website on 12 May 2008. According to British sources, about two million Romanians have gone to EU countries since their country became a member of the organisation. Also, according to the national statistical office of Romania, of around two million Romanians abroad, 250 000 have a working contract for less than a year. Between 700 and 750, he has worked for a period of more than a year, but without an official job contract. From 700 to 800,000 he works abroad occasionally. Thus, such mass eviction also explains a low unemployment rate of about 5.5% despite large layoffs due to the so-called so-called unemployment rate. European reforms in Romania's economy. This should also be pointed out for our public, in which this information on the decline in the unemployment rate in Romania has been repeatedly cited as an argument for Brussels integration. Clearly, it is necessary to look at the overall and the causes of such a decline in unemployment, not just one part taken from the context, all for the sake of transparent pro-brissels propaganda in our country, which is otherwise spent by an incredible three billion euros at the level of this supranational organisation. It is also clear when data are previously presented from neighbouring Romania, which is an EU member, that there is no evidence that EU accession will bring about an improvement in our agriculture or society in general, according to the budget. That is why this amendment should be adopted, because it is in line with reality and protects our agriculture, unlike the draft budget, which provides for a reduction in subsidies for agriculture. There's no economic justification for this reduction. Although the minister in his final statement, following a principle debate over the draft budget law, said, if I understood correctly, that with less resources, sometimes better results can be achieved and that this is one of the reasons for reducing subsidies. This method, although it sounds mildly illogical to me, should then certainly be applied, with much more ground, and in the case of services under contract provided for under classification 423. By the way, it's the European Integration Office. That area is now regulated by the first part of the amendment. In the light of this economic classification, it is stated that for these services per contract the maximum amount is foreseen for professional services and translation services, above all for "Aki Communitre". It's known that it's about 150 thousand pages of the so-called European law. But if we apply the method proposed by the minister, or less resources -- greater efficiency, solutions could be made that would compensate for the funds deprive this amendment. It is only necessary to establish an even better co-operation with the competent state authorities in an environment dealing with Brussels integration and with professional services or with services led by Aki Communitre, because regardless of the artificial political definitions in the region, only one language is generally spoken. That would make a lot of savings. Ladies and gentlemen, in the final statement, following the debate in principle, the Honorable Minister presented another definition that, according to her own recognition, essentially characterizes her economic beliefs and therefore must inevitably reflect the draft budget. If I understand correctly, answer our questions - whether it supports the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement with the EU, which will cause a deficit of 260m euros in our budget, at our point in time when a major financial crisis occurs and when every dinar is important and when it is necessary to save on basic human needs, as we hear from the prime minister daily, the minister replied that he does not support the deficit in the budget, but in principle always supports the reduction of customs duties, because he stated that all the world's leading countries have thus developed their economy. In this context and in line with the purpose of this amendment, which advocates the opposite economic principles of a neoliberalist approach, which is currently leaving in a large part of the world, but not with us, I will list the views of a professor who has been teaching economics at Cambridge University since 1990, who has worked for the UN, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. These are copies from Professor Djang's book "Till in Free Trade," and were translated and published in one of our weeklys. The preface for the book was written by our well-known Nobel laureate, Joseph Stiglic. The book states that just now the Western states, the leading carriers and propagators of liberalism, have applied counter measures in their development from those recommended by the IMF and the EU. For example. Until the mid-19th century, Britain remained a highly protectionist country, and its average customs rates were 45% to 55%. On the other hand, I will remind you that the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement will bring our customs duties down by 27.7%. Also, the quoted book states that US Customs Minister Alexander Hamilton, in his report to the US Congress, has proposed introducing customs duties on imports of goods, even bans on exporting certain types of goods, as well as subsidies for the export of primary raw materials, etc. The book then states that this is a completely opposite policy of what the IMF and the World Bank are proposing today, and that these institutions would probably today demand Hamilton's shift that he is, by chance, alive, because he has implemented a policy contrary to the principles of the IMF, which our authorities are applying with such enthusiasm and are so uncritically glorifying in our public. It is concluded that Hamilton's high customs policy on imports of goods to the United States between 40 and 50% lasted throughout the 19th century until the first half of the 20th century, but that did not hurt the American economy. On the contrary: "Despite being the world's most protectionist state in that period, the United States was also the fastest growing economy". Only after the end of World War II, when the United States, which because of the war, gained a huge advantage over European countries, they liberalised their trade. So, the leading countries of the West, on average, applied protectionism and high customs after 100-150 years. We are now required by the IMF and the EU to lower our customs duties to a symbolic level of several years, for some products even within a few months. In order for the absurd to be larger, the government goes one step further and, at a time when protectionism is back on the big door back to the world's economic stage, for example. New economic forces, such as the Russian Federation, India and Brazil, are subject to a unilateral transitional agreement that leads to a major drop in customs duties and a loss of revenue of 260m euros, which is slightly incomprehensible from an economic point of view. Also, the respected minister quoted Milton Friedman as saying in her final statement, following a principled debate. I sincerely hope the minister does not share the views of the creators of the monetary doctrine and his followers from the so-called so-called so-called so-called "Currently". Chicago schools, Bruner, Melcer, Meier and others, where the economy is reportedly more stable when it is left to spontaneous market movements. This policy, which has been applied in the United States since the late '60s, has led to an increase in unemployment and recession in the 1970s. Finally, when we look at the non-economic elements, it is clear that this amendment should be accepted. It has been said for years, and this is the general place, that there are double standards in world policy, as well as in the application of international law and human rights conventions. We've felt that more than once when it came to kim. The same countries, and there is little talk about it, or these facts are deliberately silenced, apply double standards in the international economy. For example. What is applied in their economy does not advise others. What is harmful and which is never applied in developed economies is recommended to small and poor countries, such as ours. Why? The answer is more than clear to anyone who wants to analyse the currents and principles of the world economy, without the scarcity and application of the Brussels dogma and the IMF council. I hope the honourable minister understands this unwritten law of international trade and will therefore accept this amendment as a small contribution to correcting the poor budget which is essentially made by the IMF and Brussels to exploit our economy and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11923	Thank you, Mr. Mirovic. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 3 and 14, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Squirt, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Minister, the amendment submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talijan in front of the SRS parliamentary group says that in article 5, section 3, chapter 3.7, function 110, in the economic classification of 423, services under contract. You see, it's a contract service again. The amendments we have submitted, you see, by contract, are immediately doubted what they are talking about, and therefore this amendment is designed to replace the amount of six and eight million in columns by five million. You see, that's the difference of 11 million we've imagined focusing on the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Someone was saying that these are small amounts that we quote in the amendments, but if we add up all the services per contract, we're going to get a number of 14 billion dinars. If we're only looking at this amendment, it's about 11 million. If we add up all the amendments we've submitted, we're going to get one digit that will significantly improve some of the things in that resolution ministry, not just agriculture, but also water industry. Why am I talking - the water industry? I come from Apatin where the coastal fort is threatened, the past ministers know it, and there is Vela Ilic, as minister, who has done something, but the problem is that to resuscitate the coast needs large funds, which the ministry never has. We know that it borders the area, especially that part, with the Republic of Croatia, the natural border, half of the Danube belongs to Croatia, half of Serbia, and this problem is very big. The Republic of Croatia allocates large funds to secure its coastal fortification, which makes our side worse, because they are making their coastal fortress, many fellow MPs from those parts know what I'm talking about, it's a very expensive project, and I don't see anywhere that they are separate funds for it. The Republic of Croatia separates, we do not separate and there is a big problem when the Danube comes to its own course and the mass it carries to penetrate the coastal fort, bent, and to create floods, precisely in the area from which I come, it is the municipality of Apatin. The funds are gone, the projects are very expensive, and there's no funds planned. When someone accuses us of making obstructions because we've filed a large number of amendments, I can't agree with that. I will use this time to say something else, for the sake of Serbian citizens, and to explain a few examples of carelessness and indifference, above all the inconclusiveness of this government, not you personally, when it comes to citizens' lives, which is Serbia's budget. When one of the experts, especially Nobel laureates, of those who do so, fellow Mirovic spoke, the economic Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglic, including Paul Krugman, said at a seminar in early December, perhaps you were there, in the first sentence at that seminar said - I have no good news for you, so he began his presentation. Its thesis is backed by major macroeconomic indicators in Serbia, the movement of the exchange rate of dinars, the planned 2009 budget deficit, the high foreign trade deficit, an increase in external debt levels. I will remind the citizens here that in 2000, the debt was 10 billion 830 million, 2001. 11125,000, 2002. Eleven hundred and thirty thousand, 2003. 13.575 thousand, 2004. 14.099 thousand, 2005. 15,467 thousand,2006. 19,606 thousand, 2007. 26 billion 236 million, and in 2008 according to the 29.516 or almost 30 billion euros, is the responsibility. Increase the level of external duty. We must establish a high rate of inflation and a historic minimum of indexes on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, which has lost almost 4% over the past weeks or last week. In such conditions as I was just talking about, the government had to identify and know something in advance, and the smallest financial resource that could mitigate the impact of the coming crisis. Is that done? It's not done, that's why we've welcomed this budget, and you're aware it's going to be hard to achieve it, because in your exposé here at the beginning, you said yourself that you and your team worked day and night to fulfill the wishes of many ministries, so that you could project it into this fat book that has 875 pages. You can't blame it, because you didn't do it yourself. They simply had to create conditions so that many, I cannot say, could not calm down, but that the wishes of many coalition partners would be fulfilled. That's devastating. I'll try another case, since I have time to say what the government didn't do, and she had to do it. Some countries in the environment, which recently joined the EU, such as Hungary, Latvia, Estonia, did not notice in time, did not understand the coming global economic crisis in time, they were unaware of what would happen to them, so they went bankrupt. The Hungarian state is bankrupt, I think both Estonia and Latvia. A year ago, according to the main economist of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and by a statement late last year, that Serbia is in a group of six countries in transition most vulnerable to the negative effects of the global financial crisis. Official institutions and officials in Serbia have not paid special attention to this. On the contrary, until two months ago, we have witnessed this, two Deputy Prime Ministers Dinkic and Djelic, saying that this crisis will not hit us. We rightly have to ask ourselves what's going on. Generally speaking, Serbia's so high vulnerability is due to the flawed concept of economic reforms, I can say freely, led since 2000 and so on. In the last eight years, the two of them have been in that story. We've been witnessing this all these years. I'd like to tell you something else, based on what I said, that the government didn't take these warnings seriously, because it had to form a team of experts to deal with and monitor that part. I don't know if she did it, if she did it, then she didn't do it right. One of the financial resources is to reach out and can easily be collected, only that there was political will. I'll explain it to you - that resource is called passenger cars with Montenegrin plates. After an analysis, we come up with amounts that are permanently lost, which due to political disunity or political will are equal to the necessary means to complete the Horgos-Belgrade highway. According to the secretary-general of Montenegro's vehicle owner's association, given in the daily "Politika" in 13.11.2008, about 50,000 vehicles registered by Montenegrin citizens are driving in Serbia. This specific phenomenon causes more controversy. When a person resident in Serbia can violate, drive a foreign passenger vehicle, he commits a customs offence. Tolerating this violation makes it a rule that the law can be broken and that it is worth it. From the point of view of safety, it is unclear how these vehicles are under technical examination. These vehicles are largely environmentally unacceptable and ultimately Serbia suffers major material damage. If we take and look at the financial consequences of all this, we get that Serbia loses one-off and long-term revenues. I'll try to take your numbers out for a little while, and you'll see what the numbers are. If we qualify these losses, and if we assume that the average value of these vehicles is at least four thousand euros, which is higher, the loss based on customs and taxes that are not charged is about 76m euros. As for lost long-term revenues, travel industry and insurance companies, Serbia loses around 10m euros each year, and should add to these figures an amount of about 100 euros per vehicle, times 50,000 vehicles, on behalf of the fee paid annually to citizens of Montenegro, as formal car owners, this amounts to millions per year. If those losses are collected over the past five years, the state of Serbia has lost more than 150m euros and that was the amount that was enough to complete the Horgos-Belgrade highway and a good injection for the construction operation. If this negligence is unwarranted in previous years, a break with this practice would be welcome, this is recommended by the SRS, in 2009 under the conditions of the planned budget deficit. It's a figure of about 150 million. It's about a parallel number, when we add up all the services by contract, by all the classifications, we get about that sum. Why is this government and this country rejecting it? I just think it's political will, to make a deal and start applying it. This is official data, and these data were addressed by economists, among other things, by Joseph Stiglic, so I'm really not saying anything. If we are talking about this savings and difficulties for the budget to be respected, of course we must express our suspicion because it has contradictions in the government itself. Here's how. Since 1.1.2009, we have witnessed that several ministers have made statements that the belt will tighten, that there will be a reduction in the number of workers employed in the state administration, starting with ministries, and across the province, all the way to local self-government. On the other hand, these days we're getting something that's coming off of it, right from that same government. We are receiving economic policy measures for 2009, written by Mladjan Dinkic. In the section on measures to reduce public spending and bureaucracy, point 6 says -- a reduction in the number of administrative employees, the abolition or merger of state institutions for rational work. That's a good point. On the other hand, the law that came into force 1.9 says -- a new period in financing local self-government is that, after two transition years that have passed, all cities and municipalities will have to assume jurisdiction over their own investment of their original incomes, 42 local self-governments in Serbia have already done so. The country's dilemma, on the one hand, is about reducing the number of employees in state bodies, as well as in local self-government authorities, and on the other hand legal solutions imposes obligations on local self-governments to create new jobs, as is the example in this area. If we take not only this area, local self-government gets a daily recommendation on something new, where jobs are being opened. This is all under the pretext of decentralisation as the dominant process of the development of local self-government in the early 21st century, and here we agree, but this is also the case in the field of environmental protection and, in the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, local self-government has insufficient professional and small numbers of perpetrators in this area. As a result of a number of meetings by the ministry with local administrations, local self-governments are suggested to employ, according to the cities, a separate environmental protection administration with several departments, with three departments and groups, as well as a environmental fund, without knowing how many employees are in the area. For municipalities with more than 27 000 inhabitants, it is proposed to form a sector for sustainable development, to protect the environment, with five groups and a fund, and yet it is not known how many employees. In addition to this, the ministries propose local self-government to open diaspora offices, for youth, for young people, for the Roma office. From what means will all of this be financed and their earnings from where will they go? This is all true what I'm saying, and then it's simple. The government didn't run a team. It seems to me that every ministry works as if it's special, that the government is for itself, because on one side who will finance employees in local self-government and tax administration or if these offices open up, will local administrations be able to look for an increase or expansion of the mass of profits? Because, for example, in a municipality of about 30,000 residents, it takes between six and eight perpetrators only for this part that I listed about administering this tax administration and these things. (President: Time. ) The profit mass is limited, we know, and the increase in employees would be reduced if they did not get an expansion if the state did not approve an increase in profit mass. We can see there's no kind of savings here... (President: Will you bring the end? I'm done, one more sentence. There's no kind of savings here, but on the contrary, this way the costs will be higher than planned. Then of course we're wondering, on this side of the Serbian Radical side, what's all this about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11925	Thank you. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 3 and 14, the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11926	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you see that we have been trying to fix this budget for a few days now, so I'm going to read here: in Article 5, division 3, the contract services, in columns 6 and 8, where 19 million are replaced by 10 million. I'll remind you now what this applies to. This applies to ministers, or vice-presidents of the government, where it is likely to be increased by someone who will advise him in his work, and it is proposed that this amount be increased by the number of those advisers who should advise him. We suggested that it be reduced to 10 million, or 9 million, that would be transferred to the agricultural subsidy sphere. Furthermore, we have in Article 5, Section 14, where subsidies from public non-financial enterprises and organisations in column 6 of 17.285,000 are replaced by 17.294,000, in column 8, respectively, the amount of 17.885,000 is replaced by 17.894,000. Ladies and gentlemen, here as you can see, this is where they answered me, which is why they didn't accept the amendment. As far as these subsidies for agriculture are concerned, they're not this amount for this division at all, they haven't answered me at all. But I will try to answer you, because seeing that, ladies and gentlemen, when you look at this 690,000,000,000 budget, it is actually inexplicable for our citizens in Serbia. It would be good if it could be mentioned about a figure that is slightly less than 8 billion euros. Now I'm going to compare it to what it looks like. Two comas of one million tonnes of wheat per year or six million tonnes of corn, so that's worth about one billion euros somewhere. So, the Republic of Serbia's budget has been swallowed somewhere around eight annual crops, and that's just these two cultures, that's wheat and corn. When you look, ladies and gentlemen, you see that these budgets of ours will eat all the wheat and corn, so probably when they eat this, they'll go for meat and meat processing. Now I'm going to explain to you about, to say one ministry that probably justified this kind of item in this previous period, it's about the Ministry of the Interior. When we look at the reciprocity of the Ministry of the Interior, we see that it is about a harvest of corn, but we see in this previous period how much the Ministry, headed by Ivica Dacic, has done in the previous period, and we expect that it will also do more in 2009 because it has promised to go into a fierce fight against corruption and crime. Now I'm going to explain to you how much the trade deficit was around 2007, it was about seven billion euros. But if we look at it in this year 2008, it was about 8 billion or, let's say, about nine annual harvests of wheat and corn, which, look at what that trade deficit in Serbia looked like and how it looked like about eight billion euros. Surely you know well, as well as economists, that Serbia's annual debt is moving around about four billion euros. What's he saying? That says this deficit has to be covered by something, and it's actually from this budget. If you look, ladies and gentlemen, at this presentation today where you have seen the wages of individuals, whether the director in public enterprises, and when you compare tons of our agricultural product, you will see that these salaries, ranging from two to five thousand euros, their monthly salaries range from several wagons of wheat or corn production. I'm asking you, did anyone who's received that kind of pay, from his office to his car, bring in that much tonage every day for that month, whether it's corn or wheat? But what's very important is, ladies and gentlemen, all this time I've been talking about those who bought cements, milkers, drug factories, ironworks and other profitable businesses, they didn't actually invest their money in any of the development systems of these companies. What were they actually doing? They were their profits in these companies, they were out, whether they were people who bought factories from Serbia or outside Serbia, they were making their profits through those banks that actually started to function in Serbia. You know very well that all these banks, which bear foreign names, are usually said to be foreign banks, but on the contrary, these are the banks of our people who have withdrawn their money from abroad in one great desire, that they can wash it. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at these banks, these banks are actually the only companies that finance imports, and they're not exporting. If you look at it, all the companies that were exporting, they went into a clean loss, because in these eight years, if you look at the level or what the measure was, it was actually the euro, which, in fact, in the last eight years, we can say, that their value hasn't changed either. Also, I must tell you that Friday was held a session of the Parliament of the City of Sapca, where budget and budget rebalancing was adopted for 2009, which I think is a unique case, probably not just for us in Serbia, but probably in Europe and the world. What's very important is that I point out to you and you know, somewhere around 61 million dollars is the trade deficit of the Sabbath community. In fact, what was in the previous period or how the biggest profit was made is secondary raw materials. Can you see now what Serbia is on and what the Serbian economy has fallen to, which is to make the biggest profit in terms of exports. It's secondary raw materials. That is why, in my presentation, I had previously said that in fact Serbia has become the largest cemetery of European machinery, the largest slavery of the EU's technical and technological system. That's what I have to tell you, what hit Serbia today. We're constantly doing it - well, it's a European crisis. The crisis seems to have shaken Serbia since the DOS-Mali authorities came to power since 2000. In the end, since I could talk for a long time, but I have to leave time for my colleague, I have to say that what happened today shows a great anxiety for those who lost parliamentary mandates at the assembly of the City of Capca. It showed how powerful their power is. But in the end, I need to tell you something honest. In the pre-election speeches of the gentleman concerned there were many good things, but what's best said is in Kosovo Mitrovica, where he then told Serbs in KIM -- two thieves need to be caught here, out of their pockets, and you will have everything you can in a year to defend the Serbian state in KIM. I suggest and I can tell you exactly who these two thieves are, which are the two thieves who robbed the SRS, are Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, called Little Aca, the greatest kleptomaniac.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11927	The word is Mr. Paya Momchilov. You have four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, we have told you that we are criticizing you most in this budget for the economy, for agriculture, for the way you treat it. You see, you globalists often like to say that you need to think globally and act locally, and, here, we're now giving you some information that makes us think that it's unusually important to separate more for agriculture. Mrs. Borka Vukic says, in her authorial article - Views by 20 December - especially, if not most importantly, investments in Serbian agriculture, which is a great and unused potential and a chance to increase, primarily export production, should be increased. February 27. In 2008, on the Chicago Stock Exchange, it's wheat, it's a bushel, it's about 27 kilos. reached a record price of $12.70; in 2002, by that year, the price was $2 per drill. That's that break-up price. The question is whether they'll be stopped. What we all know for sure, cereals are used in human and cattle nutrition, but we have one new thing - alternative fuels and ethanol can also be obtained from these raw materials. Furthermore, in 2007, 60% of the world's grain purchase was increased, and precisely due to biofuels, purchases in China and India and use of livestock. If you look at corn, what happens to corn, you see that 16% of total production was used for biodiesel in the United States in 2007 and 30% this year. We have a situation in the EU that's worse, but it doesn't matter. Please, it's been a time of cheap food, the whole world knows that. Secondly, if you sow wheat, you need 60 working days, one year you invest in funds, and the next year you withdraw profits. Agriculture is a very clear resource to be used. Two more details for you, who are globally thinking, and you seem local, which are very important. According to the Italian Farmers' Association, an increase in global consumption will occur in the next ten years by 25% of cereals, 70% of milk and 75% of meat. FAO, the UN has an organisation for agriculture and development, says like this -- that developing countries will invest 25% more cereals and 16% more soy and corn, and 100% more beef, 70% more milk powder over the next ten years. Why were you so short-sighted when you already allowed the application of the Trade Agreement, which will radically damage our peasants? It won't damage them because they're weaker in production. They can compete with all the villagers of the world, but they cannot withstand the subsidies of developed countries to these peasants. Then why did you cut those subsidies? It's a question that requires an answer. What is the state of our peasant, not to speak? The peasant is in big trouble today. The peasant has been robbed, free to say - the wrong agrarian policy was conducted, it is said - do not sow wheat, sow industrial herbs. I gave you the data, that's the data you can find, with a little bit of goodwill, in domestic journals, to see what the situation is like. Not to mention the loan allocation, where the lenders took the loans themselves. That's what we talked about in this congregation. I ask you, do you think about the future of this country? We don't just think about peasants. This is your world trend, this is science. How do you think when you bring in such instruments as the budget? You don't care what happens in the world. You're blind to these trends. Really, this government is extremely bad, the budget is extremely bad, and that's why we insisted on the discussion. What one MP said here, we had very little funds for agriculture, because it was nothing. Now you see, cumulatively, on several occasions, the funds and how we predicted that we would fill the agricultural budget in that budget, and take the state administration, which and how it spread and which, in this budget, allowed itself to have more resources than it had last year. So, Madam Minister, you're no good at the budget, but I can't believe your thoughts aren't good and well-intentioned. With a agricultural budget like this, you are working against the state of Serbia and against the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-28-0.u11929	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for your work. I thank Mrs. Minister, as well as Mrs. Stojiljkovic, who are with us here all the time. I'd like to ask you tomorrow, no matter what, it's also not a work day, that at 10.00 we start work. I would ask you to really be constructive tomorrow and I express my confidence that we will work responsibly and vote on the budget tomorrow. You will be informed by your secretaries, the heads of Parliament's groups, to begin our work, and then at 11.00 a.m. to meet me at my place to discuss tomorrow's day and in general the schedule for the next days.
