ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted is more technical than essential. The public prosecutor is a public prosecutor, and the deputy public prosecutor only replaces the public prosecutor in his capacity as prosecutor, with his duty to follow mandatory instructions. The point is that the entire prosecution is one hierarchical authority and that the hierarchy is one of the basic features of the entire prosecution and prosecutorial work. So, I don't think the Deputy Attorney General can have any special office compared to the Attorney General himself because he's only doing the jobs that the Attorney General has entrusted him with. The government's explanation states that the National Assembly is electing a person elected for the first time in office, and the State's Chief Prosecutors elects him to perform the post permanently. It is interesting that the Government, in its reasoning on this amendment, quoted almost an entire article 159. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but has left it to quote the first position of this member of the Constitution where it is said that "the public prosecutor's function is done by a public prosecutor". So there's no mention of a deputy public prosecutor anywhere. Given that this amendment is a more logical nature, I would not remain on it because the clarification for it has just given the Constitution in this Article 159. But speaking of this amendment, I would also refer to the amendment that we have submitted together, Mr. Petkovic and I, in Article 23, paragraph 2, and in this way will shorten the time of the Assembly so that I do not discuss it further. In this regard, Article 23(2) states that "the deputy public prosecutor may, without special authority, take any action to which the prosecutor is authorised". I think this attitude should be complemented by the words "in the limits of trusted powers". Here, it should not forget that the public prosecutor's office is a hierarchical authority and that the deputy public prosecutor cannot act independently in relation to the public prosecutor himself, but is acting according to his mandatory instructions. With the amendment, I just wanted to point out that fact and say that the deputy public prosecutor is being replaced by a public prosecutor, but he has to take all the actions within the limits of trusted powers. If the amendment is not accepted, we can conclude that the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor are even in terms of authority. That it is simply not true they show many powers and actions taken both by the public prosecutor alone and by the deputy public prosecutor, only in agreement with the public prosecutor. For example, in some more complex cases, for example in cases where it is decided to suspend detention or in cases where it is decided to resign from prosecution, as a rule, the deputy public prosecutor shall refer the case to the public prosecutor and a decision shall be taken in consultation with him. So the deputy public prosecutor is not authorized to make decisions on his own without consulting the public prosecutor in this case. Of course, the deputy attorney general should not be confused with the role of the judge himself, as the judge is independent and independent in his work under the Constitution and law. So, the judge can make whatever decision he wants, and whether it will be accepted or suspended depends on the decision of the high court, but the deputy public prosecutor is not in charge of acting on his own in relation to the public prosecutor himself. If I was right to confirm another store... In fact, there are several stores where the attorney general is solely authorized to take over the shop on his own, without consulting the deputy attorney general. So it's about the exclusive jurisdiction of the DA. That's, say, when a proposal to resolve jurisdictional conflicts is signed. It is evident that the differences exist and the amendment I have submitted aims only to highlight these differences. That is exactly the purpose of submitting these amendments. Of course, I won't answer for the word on this amendment to Article 23, when it comes to order, because I've already explained it this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8552	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8553	Madam President, members of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Articles 73 and 77. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I think, without any doubt, I can count on the support and understanding of most MPs and MPs of our assembly. Today is December 1st, fight against AIDS. Given that I was not in a position to meet with the head of the Administrative Board of Mr Nikolic in the afternoon, I would ask you, President, and Mr. Secretary, in accordance with Article 77, to consult with the President of the Administrative Committee, Tomislav Nikolic, and to allow all MPs of the Serbian Parliament who want this to reroute their daily diary to the JAZAS Youth Fund, which has been fighting AIDS for years, helping those who have been sick and spreading a kind of awareness that is obviously necessary to our society. Our MP group wants to do something like that, and I'm sure most of our colleagues and colleagues want to do it. I would just ask you to allow us administratively to do something like this and make our contribution this day and, in doing so, take the obligation not only to be symbolic help, but to try to help everyone who is in danger and suffering from this disease. I think that in the case of a side, this kind of intervention and support is necessary, given that everything that the AIDS monitors is still very prejudiced and that there are a lot of problems. As a congregation, we must show some kind of understanding. Thank you, I know I can count on your support and on the support of most colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8554	I thank you for your initiative. All MPs who wish to do so will be allowed to implement your proposal. We will also agree to convene a session of the Administrative Committee. I'm asking the heads of Parliament to inform me of the personal solutions of MPs from their own groups. The 18th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Ilic, Aleksandra Jankovic, Milutin Jelic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs Radovic has already spoken of him. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The title above Articles 27 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The title above Article 28th and Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8555	I will try to explain two amendments, as they form one continent, and this previous amendment submitted by Mr. Petar Jojic to article 27 and this amendment to Article 28, which Mr. Sreto Peric submitted. These two amendments aim to erase titles and Articles 27 and 28. Above Article 27, the title is "Request for suspension and termination of execution", but Article 28 has the title "The Consequences of adoption of requests". We believe that the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the new composition not only looks, organisation and jurisdiction of the judiciary, but also the importance of judicial judgments and other decisions simply require that these two members be expelled and that the prosecution no longer has that authority. So that the people who follow this transmission know, I'll explain what this is about. This member allows the prosecutor, independently of the proceedings, to stop something that has justly ended and which is in the process of execution. It is simply amazing that the first-degree and second-degree authorities and the executing authority did not have all the aspects and all the reasons in mind, so now it is necessary for the public prosecutor to intervene and stop. This provision has always been used in practice so far to abuse the authority of a public prosecutor. A million times you could have called on this, looking for a public prosecutor's intervention. He didn't go through with it. However, if the chosen ones report, then this is an instrument that basically derivates everything that the competent courts have done in some procedure that lasted perhaps several years. To make that better, I'll read what's here. Let me tell you right now, it's prescribed by an existing law, it's not something new invented. It means, "A public prosecutor may request a postponement or termination of the decision when he considers that there are reasons to deny by means of emergency legal means a decision taken in a court or other procedure." So the prosecutor is now above the court, above the law. That's the exception. Item 2: "The request shall be submitted to the authority which allows the execution of the decision, and if the execution has begun - the authority that implements it." So, the municipal court is finished, the county court is finished, it's been audited, it's all over, it's come to an execution in front of a municipal court, the prosecutor is now reporting and saying, "let's postpone this, now we're going to use an emergency remedy." You skip this review, maybe I'm a little out of line. It is important that after justice, there is an opportunity to declare an emergency remedy, perhaps it has been declared, but the prosecutor can now stop it. This is Article 27. Article 28 regulates the consequences of such a decision by the Prosecutor to intervene after the lawfulness. I am now reading: "In the event of adoption, the motion of a public prosecutor under article 27 of this law, delay or termination of execution, shall be pending a decision on the extraordinary legal means of the public prosecutor. "That solution is already existing, you know. "The decision to postpone or suspend the execution ceases to apply if the public prosecutor does not invest an emergency remedy within 30 days of its admission." In practice, this was used as a means of abuse, and we generally object. Since Mr Jojic, who is also the applicant of this amendment, is likely to show it on some examples. We believe that after some verdict and the fact that it is going to be executed, if this authority of a public prosecutor is left to seek a delay or a termination of an execution, the question arises: why is it that a man has barely reached a judicial verdict, comes to the position of seeking an execution, and now some prosecutor remembers that he is interrupting it. In practice, prosecutors only used it for abuse. For what it's worth, from my experience, I've sought this out many times, and I've received the answer as kind writers where they say they don't think they should intervene. In the new composition, in the new Constitution, in a new way where there is even a constitutional appeal, where there is the possibility of addressing the European Court of Human Rights, where there are new legal means, etc., such authority by the public prosecutor is unnecessary and will likely be used only for abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8556	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Marash, then Mr. Shormaz, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8557	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, I have reported in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. The topic that occupied last week, both the Assembly and the general public, and related to enormous incomes in public enterprises and possible abuses in public enterprises, culminated in a direct transfer last night, i.e. in addressing one of the public ministers through one media. But what's interesting, no one's trying to solve this problem the right way. A moment ago, I was stopped in the assembly hall by Radoslav Sretenovic, president of the State Auditing Institution, who said the government had assigned space to the State Auditing Institution, but that space was occupied, so that those currently employed in the State Auditing Institution have no place to work. Also, there is another problem, and this problem is related to the fact that for a very long time the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution cannot come here before the MPs to vote and that the State Auditing Institution is beginning to do its job, more specifically, to control public enterprises. We've heard here that a public company will have an open competition. However, to solve this situation, the one in which we are present today is very difficult and worrying, as the salaries in some companies are about 500, 600, 700,000 - 1,000,000 dinars, call a competition in every public enterprise, a competition that will be the best. I also ask the President of the Assembly for information when the Rules of Procedure will be held before the MPs so that we can vote on it, that the State Auditing Institution comes into a position to do its job, to control not one public company, as it was here at one point, but all public enterprises. Also, I ask you to ask the government for information on whether the government has done something, or whether the budgetary inspection has entered public enterprises and whether something has started to work on it. Yesterday we heard that the state's secret is how much the director's salary is in NIS. Last week I was out, wages aren't as big as the big manager's bonuses, which reach 500,000 dinars a month. Needs the public to deal with it, needs a state audit institution to deal with the team. You're putting us in a position to act here as representatives of the State Auditing Institution, or lawyers, when we have to pray that after a few years of existence, the State Auditing Institution will get the premises in which they will work and pass the rules of procedure on which they will be able to work, to employ new people and to control public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8558	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure are in the process, after the session we will discuss the budget and the government's trust will be on the agenda. As for your comment on the government's request to solve the problem of space, I have already given my suggestion in writing, because the President of the State Auditing Institution has addressed me as well. Mr. Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8559	Articles 225 and 226. Of course, we at the DSS have said that every day we will ask that question, regardless of media insights or manipulations conducted by the executive authority in Serbia. The question is, where's the budget? We're getting information that, I don't know, now on some government committees, you don't know which cabinet session they're going to be at. On the other hand, ministers make different statements in the media; for example, Minister Kalanovic says she is unhappy with 12 billion and is asking for 20 billion and that it cannot just go away. These are the headlines today. They're completely different information, we get them from those who make up the government of the Republic of Serbia, but we're only interested in one thing -- where's the budget? He's very late. Are we gonna respect the legal deadlines? Are we gonna have problems with the IMF for that? Is the budget charged? We also have information that, even under the planned budget rebalancing, the budget is not being filled in the planned way. Does this mean that the deficit will be greater than the proposed deficit? How will there be, and we'll see, allotted money for next year? As we can see, the Department of Defense is again dissatisfied. According to statements, not the minister, but the general staff, according to the draft, working version, who knows what already, budgets, they have re-cutting this year and the previous year. I repeat, we've made a decision on military neutrality. Chief of Staff says another 3,000 new troops are needed on this basis, according to a new strategy. I repeat that the President of the Republic yesterday, the day before yesterday, when, in order to forget the Eulex story, spoke of the Kumanov Agreement, which is about the military. What if there's some extra funding here too? Speaking of Eulex, regardless of your media insights, I remind you once again, there is no state decision to allow the installation of Eulex in Kosovo. Since this is done, I remind you once again, the first ruling by the EULEX judge under the laws passed by the illegal Kosovo Assembly in Pristina, which will happen because they are coming, will show that you are selling Kosovo. First sentence. So now you can talk and manipulate as much as you want, the first verdict, wherever you are, Đakovica, Prizren, Zubin Potok, Strpce, doesn't matter. An Albanian, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who is... (President: Time... )......................................................................................................... Condemned, completed and apologized, under these laws there will be evidence that you are participating in the sale of Kosovo, just for a certain European perspective, and the state has not decided on that, the citizens of Serbia have not said so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8560	As soon as the budget arrives in the Assembly, of course, you will be informed, I will call a session and agree with the heads of parliament on how to work on the budget. The word is Mr. Jojic. Here you go, your parliamentary group has nine minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8561	Madam President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the provision of Article 28. The bill, I must say, is an absolute amendment that needs to improve the text of this bill. On the other hand, we, too, are finally involved in how the parallel law regulates the termination of execution and in which cases we too have the opportunity to allow it in our law, but with one note. In practice, we had the situation that it was the policy of the executive authority that, in most cases, intervened, through the public prosecutor's office, or the prosecutor's office, that in certain places, at a certain time, and due to certain debt of the debtors, the suspension and suspension of the execution took place. Ladies and gentlemen, this is inadmissible. There are many abuses here. I remember in the 1990s when there were executions of some trustees whose verdicts were absolutely a law for an executive court. The law allowed a public prosecutor to put forward a motion to postpone or terminate the proceedings. Who's going into the account of the interruption and the delay of the execution? He's in favor of the debtor. He's not in favor of the trustee at all. When we did the previous Act of Executive Procedure in the federal government, we kicked that provision out. Why? For practical reasons, because it protected a debt lobby. There are a number of lawyers in this House who have had the opportunity to meet in practice this way of handling public prosecutors and courts. If we are in a position to regulate our legislation and to compare ourselves with European legislation, so that we can allow the public prosecutor to apply, and the executive court to delay the execution or terminate the execution, numerous conditions are needed. In the German law on enforcement in paragraph 707, if a request is made for a return to the previous situation or a relaunch is initiated, or if the case is continued after the publication of a restrictive ruling, the court shall have the right to order, upon request, that the coercive enforcement be suspended, with or without a guarantee, but generally goes with a guarantee. Because paragraph 708 can allow the execution to be delayed. What, though, is needed and in which cases can forced execution be delayed or interrupted? First, the judgments made on the basis of recognition or denial, that's the first case. Secondly, these are the verdicts made in absentia and judgments by the state of the acts against if the party gives up. Furthermore, these are the judgments that are in line with paragraph 341, which have been rejected, i.e. the objection was rejected. These are also the judgments to be made in the orderly, check-in or written-in procedure – at which time the proceedings may be suspended. However, ladies and gentlemen, 30 members of the German law on the execution of exactly the norm – in order for someone to submit a request or a proposal to suspend or delay the execution, the conditions must be met, a guarantee must be provided so that the trustee can collect claims. If there is no guarantee, the trustees will suffer huge damage, there may be destruction of things, concealment of things, bankruptcy may occur, and so the trustee will not be able to collect his claim. This is a period of the 1990s, and I remember very well when public prosecutors, at the request of certain powers and officials from the executive government, easily accepted a proposal or a request from the public prosecutor to postpone the execution. It happened that people died, they could never charge for the execution, and neither could their successors, because the company went bankrupt, or this guy fled abroad, or he died. So these are very delicate things. In my opinion and the opinion of the SRS, this provision must in no way remain in this law. If he stays, you take great responsibility from the trustees, because trustees will come in a worse position, a more unfavourable position, than they will be in debt. So we're back, protecting the debt lobby. Mr Batic is in a position to confirm this, because in his long-standing practice he must have had more cases, and he had information about such a condition and such normisation of certain norms and predictions in the law that everyone could walk in and interrupt the procedure after execution. The D.A. can't. Why are we giving the D.A. the right so he can file for it? Let's get the D.A. out of here, 'cause the D.A.'s got something to do and he doesn't belong here. Here are colleagues of Ratkovic, colleagues of Mikovic, who have in practice had such cases in which there is a stalemate, which is unnecessary, and trustees suffer damage. If someone wants to request a stay, then the Executive Procedure Act should stipulate that this one must provide ten guarantees and that the trustee agrees. If the trustee disagrees, the execution will be carried out. Those of us who were still in law enforcement, we had and we have in practice that this is a big problem in execution. This is going to be a big problem, a big obstacle for people to be able to cash their claim in time. I can see that time is already running out. I'll answer about these provisions and later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8562	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8563	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I raised a serious question three weeks ago for the government of the Republic of Serbia, specifically for Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, and it is related to the status of 170 members of the former Kosovo Police Service, the Serbian Nationality, not only from Kosovo Pomorev, but also from other parts of our southern province. A letter has just arrived from them, or a fax saying that, following the declaration of the quasi-pattarian state by the US and Western forces, and then from others who apparently want to carry out the secession of Kosovo and Metohija by Serbia, promised by the government of Serbia to take over in April of Serbia's MUP. Not only did nothing happen, because they are like the honorable Serbs and like people who won't serve Thaci, Haradinaj, the Shiptars and the villains and who put themselves under their command... A memo has already arrived telling them that they were sent out on December 1st; and not only that, they are being directed to be placed under the command of the interior ministry of the Republic of Kosovo. Tell me what state we live in and what do we drive Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to? So, in this memo, it says, "emergency," that solutions are already typed and stored for them, and they have nowhere else to go. They will not serve the Shiptarian villains and will not be placed under their command, but they will, as people who will remain living in the area of Kosovo's Pomorive, in this so-called. Serbian enclaves, villages and municipalities, that by their integrity, of course, the bare-handed, they protect the people and their hearths, and not to drive them, by this act and by such negligent state, to go under command... You know what they say? "We remind you that Serbian national police officers are ready to take certain steps, which would lead to compromise both ourselves and the Serbian state, which we have only believed so far. "Whom can they trust, rather than their country, this parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija? People, these are serious things; 180 members of the former Kosovo police service, and they have their own family members, some and three, four children, have nowhere to go and nowhere to go. The state's telling them -- come on, put yourselves there under criminal command. So what are they going to tell them tomorrow if the Serbs, in defense of their rights for not accepting Eulex, are going to ask them to do checkpoints and defend themselves legitimately, to defend what is our constitutional guarantee? They'll make them shoot their people. We have gone far and wide for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and in all that neither the president of the state, Boris Tadic, nor the current government. Here, this will be one of the main arguments when considering our initiative to replace the government of the Republic of Serbia for selling state and national interests and for issuing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8564	Your question has already been passed on to the government. Today we will repeat the question. Pursuant to Article 29 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 30 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Ilic Alexander.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8565	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Madam Minister, Article 52. The draft law on the public prosecutor's office has regulated the responsibility of a public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor for the damage caused by the public prosecutor's office. The position of the first member states: "For the damage caused by illegal or irregular work by the Republic of Serbia, the prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor are responsible for the damage caused by illegal or irregular work." I would like to propose that, following this text, the addition of the 1st sentence "with the right to refund the damage paid by illegal or irregular work by a specific public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor. "This supplement is necessary because of the seriousness of work, exceptional expertise, responsibilities and in particular legal action. For those public prosecutors, it would be completely relaxed to act in their work if all their mistakes were covered by the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia can be a pledge for situations where wrong decisions have occurred due to possible new facts that have arisen in a pre-criminal or criminal procedure, possibly unskilled and tended criminal charges and incorrectly presented data by the authorities to detect perpetrators, false testimony and falsified documents, which have been presented as evidence to the public prosecutor or deputy public prosecutor, but cannot be a claim for illegal and irregular work of a public prosecutor or a deputy prosecutor. The adoption of this amendment would greatly strengthen the responsibility of a public prosecutor or a deputy prosecutor and would not make it so easy to decide to initiate a criminal procedure without the necessary quality of evidence, on the basis of which it can be estimated whether there is a reasonable doubt or doubt that there is a certain criminal offence or that a certain person has committed a certain criminal offence. It must not be easy to launch an investigation against a particular person for a particular criminal offence and then to give up prosecution during the investigation or after the investigation has been completed. There have been major consequences for this person, regardless of the suspension of the criminal proceedings: his travel documents have been taken away, he has the property of the defendant, which certainly affects the formation of public opinion on his personality, especially if he has announced the means of information. Undoubtedly, the family itself suffers certain consequences. In particular, it must not be easily accessed by the determination of detention and the deprivement of freedom. The detention must be considered exclusively as one necessary measure, whose justification must be reconsidered at all times. The consequences of baseless detention are irreparable, and the state's own damages are enormous. Finally, it must not be easy to press charges ending with acquittals. And that state is subject to damage compensation, which is often enormously high. I stress, in the end, that the introduction of the right to refund provided for in this amendment is not a general obligation to refund the damage, but to apply a refund in certain, drastic cases, which would also be some kind of punishment for irresponsible conduct, and to the greatest extent, a general prevention that will contribute to the more successful and quality work of the law enforcement body.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8566	Thank you. First Gordana Milosavljevic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, citizens of Serbia, I am reporting for the amendments that MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic have submitted to Article 52. Proposal for a public prosecutor's law. It reads: Article 52(1) after the words "for damages caused by illegal or irregular work by a public prosecutor and by a deputy prosecutor by the Republic of Serbia" complements the words "with the right to refund the damage paid by illegal or irregular work by a specific public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor". The Serbian government explained: "The government does not accept the amendment. Article 52. The bill provides for the State's responsibility for the damage caused by the State's authority through irregular or illegal work and determines that the Republic of Serbia may seek compensation from the public prosecutor, or the deputy public prosecutor if the damage is caused by deliberate or extreme negligence. It is not possible to accept the explanation of the amendment's proposing that Article 52 in the proposed formulation exempts prosecutors from any liability. The law stipulates that one of the reasons for the resolution of the prosecutor's office is the unprofessional performance of the prosecutor's office, which exists if his work is assessed by an assessment of 'unsatisfactory', according to criteria and criteria for the evaluation of the work of the prosecutor's office. "The public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor, when causing damage to illegal or irregular work, must bear personal responsibility, not that the Republic of Serbia, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is responsible for their mistakes. What makes public prosecutors and their deputies different from other people who do, too, responsible jobs and who make mistakes, depending on which party they belong, are publicly stamped and criminally accountable? This is simply professional discrimination, the demeaning of citizens of Serbia, and it is unacceptable. In an explanation of the Serbian government, which is why the amendment is not accepted clearly makes the government feel the government's influence on the work of the prosecutor's office. The government will have absolute control over the prosecution, so it should also have responsibility, not to transfer to Serbian citizens. As we have heard when it comes to the draft law in principle, this legal solution provides for a number of types of prosecutors and their deputies. According to the proposed solutions, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime will be designated as the prosecution's special jurisdiction. In a statement to Jagodin TV "Palma Plus" since 12 April 2008, and conveyed "The Voice of the Public", a Cypriot criminal, executioner and terrorist Ramush Haradinaj mocked the entire Serbian prosecutor's office. He said, "I am not guilty of what was written in the indictment against me or of what the public in Serbia accuses me of." He added that during his command in the Dukadjina operating zone in Metohija, six Serb civilians were killed. Imagine that sarcasm, cynicism, madness: six Serb civilians were killed, and he was released! Then he went on to say, "That's why I was charged with charges, and there's nothing else that happened outside that indictment. "He also called on the top of Serbia, or the Serbian judiciary, and continued his statement: "If you think there is something, let the war crimes prosecutor from Belgrade send it," Haradinaj said. You can imagine the double standards of the UN tribunal: he admitted to killing six Serb civilians and therefore got a release sentence, and this same UN tribunal has held in the detention unit of SRS President Vojislav Seselj for nearly six years, and that is because he is charged with verbal delinquency! Where is the morale and justice of the International Court of Justice in The Hague? Question two: What has the War Crimes Prosecutor done from April to this day? Such a statement would be challenging for any serious and responsible prosecutor and would have some information to date. Who's responsible here? Should the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office have launched an investigation against Haradinaj to prove Haradinaj is lying, while UNMIK, NATO and so on. Kosovo government doesn't allow a criminal to be convicted? The war crimes prosecutor is late when it comes to terrorists who killed the Serb people. The war crimes prosecutor's office must do everything possible to investigate the Haradinaj case in front of the second-degree UN tribunal. If the investigation occurs, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office must not be satisfied with just some logistical support from the Hague prosecution, as announced by the war crimes prosecutor. He must have an active role, because there is a danger that even before the second-degree UN tribunal, adequate evidence is not presented because Haradinaj intimidated people who wanted to testify. It is irresponsible and unwitting that Vladimir Vukcevic told B92 that the prosecution had done enough to take Haradinaj first on the indictee's bench to answer and that he was trying to get an adequate verdict, and we all know that Haradinaj received a liberating verdict. The Serbian Radical Party asks what the prosecution "enough" has done, and how much has Haradinaj "doed" to get the verdict of the adequate crime it committed? Does Vladimir Vukcevic feel moral responsibility on behalf of six murdered and their families? UNMIK is inefficient and in Albanian power, we all know that long ago, and then UNMIK chief Soren Jessen Petersen publicly supported Haradinaj in a search before The Hague tribunal. Serbia's war crimes prosecutor's office found out about the sale of Serb authorities in Kosovo and Metohija as early as 2004. Vladimir Vukcevic and the prosecution only launched an investigation into the sale of Serb authorities from Kosovo and Metohija in the book of Carla del Ponte on 21 March 2008. According to the media, 18. Six. In 2004, the five-member UNMIK Forensic Commission for Missing Persons and the Office for Judicial Medicine in Kosovo and Metohija visited so-called. "Yellow House" in Burdelj, central Albania, in which Serbs were abducted prepared for organ extraction and made a report also 18. Six. In 2004. The Serbian prosecutor's office came up with a record signed by the former UNMIK Commission chief for missing persons, Jose Pablo Barabar, against whom families of missing persons later filed criminal charges. The report states that medical material, medicines, infusions and plastic container were found to carry out the kidney. Can war crimes prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic tell us what has been done since 21 March of this year and what are the results of the investigation? I ask this question on behalf of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed during 1998-1999 in Kosovo and Metohija. Members of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed in Kosovo and Metohija protested in mid-November this year and were then accepted by the only deputy president of the SRS and the chairman of the Security Committee, Mr Dragan Todorovic. These people only want the truth and the truth, no matter how hard and sad it is. The abolition of prosecutors in many municipalities, especially Kosovo and Metohija, and the participation of the High Council of Justice in proposing candidates for the State's Major Prosecutors will weaken the effect of fighting crime. The prosecutor's independence cannot be achieved because of the government's role in their election. It is also possible to abuse policy in the choice of prosecutors. Politisation is possible in selecting the first composition of the State's council of prosecutors to hold a general choice of prosecutors and to propose the current High Council of Justice, which is burdened with political views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8568	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in last night's "The Imprint of the Week" we had the opportunity to find out from the Deputy Prime Minister that the Russians, "Pres", "Kurr", Cane Subotic and tycoons, NASA, NATO; they're all guilty, but it's not Kristo's fault. We also heard that the president of Serbia, of course, was deceived, deceived, not informed, and that he had salted and sinned. That's what Deputy Prime Minister Bojan Kristo said. He said he stayed alive. He said Kristo, otherwise, was an excellent manager, that he should not have resigned, that he did not vote for his shift, that Kristo even reduced his salary in October to 350,000, that for such epochal results that Kristo achieved a salary of an average of 500,000 dinars was not excessively large, that he deserves it, that in the region the airport directors have about so many salaries, that Kristo reduced the number of employees by one-third. He did not say how many dozens or hundreds of people he hired under the contract of work, primarily his party friends, and the value of paying by contracts on the part exceeds the amount of salaries that people who were fired would receive, etc. He finally said the board of directors called it all off. On the note that the Management Board is denying it, the Vice-President says the Management Board is lying. And, finally, that all those bonuses and that money were approved by the government. I'm asking the government if that's true. We also went on to learn from Deputy Prime Minister and the president of the negotiating team, who does not negotiate with the Russians, because Dinkic does not negotiate, that the Russians want NIS for 400 million immediately, and when it will be a pipeline, it is unknown, and that the gas pipeline feasibility study will be reportedly only in 2010. That's what we heard from the head of the negotiating team, who's not taking part in the negotiations. I'm asking the government for an answer, what's going on with the gas deal, and what are we, in fact, that is, you who did it by ratifying the gas agreement, what have we ratified?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8570	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, and then Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8571	I am reporting for our amendment to Article 52(1). Let's just stick to the words "produced by the illegal or irregular work of a specific public prosecutor". Speaking of the proposal for a law on judges, I have already said that our basic motivation for making amendments was a reflection of the general attitude of New Serbia that seeks to restore the system of values and restore trust in institutions, which by definition should contribute to the determination of truth, slow but still effective justice and protect citizens from wrong uses or even abuse of law and legality. You don't need to be an expert in civil procedural or criminal law, so if you're lucky, you don't have at least one experience or knowledge of the misdemeanor of those who sue, judge, or even defend. Neretko, it's exactly in line with that people's "cadiya sues you, cadiya sues you." If there were indeed a preserved institution of an independent judiciary and a prosecutor's office, not only honest and tortured individuals of the judge, prosecutors, lawyers, but measures would be taken against those at the top of the executive authority, and they have sinned against the people in at least two ways. By definition, sin is not only an act of evil but also a doing of good. The executive power, the government, whose single minister, after not four months of age, has been able to resign, has been wronged not to give a word to citizens during the election campaign. At first, it was a word, and immediately thereafter, at least as far as these flowering young governments are concerned, a lie follows. The government of the Republic of Serbia was formed 7. Seven. In 2008 and out of many pre-election promises, none of them came true. Number one, a concession contract for the construction of Horgos-Požega highway has been annulled. Two, instead of 200,000 new jobs, 5,000 workers were fired in just two days. Under three, instead of an increase in wages and pensions, a decision on freezing has been made. Under four, a constant drop in living standards due to the acquisition of basic life supplies, heating and utility services. Under five, the government's decision to apply the SAA easily is directed against the development of domestic economy and is questioning the existence of thousands of employees in domestic enterprises. Under six, crowding party officials in state institutions, the government increases public spending, and by rebalancing the 2008 budget, it creates a deficit of 45 billion dinars. Under seven, Serbia's external debt is $30 billion, and the government constantly owes the country additional loans to the IMF and the World Bank, under economically irrational conditions. Under eight, Serbia's investment rating was never lower because of foreign investors' express mistrust with the Serbian government and its inability to provide essential conditions for investment. Under nine, a joint investment agreement was signed with "Fiita", which did not come to Serbia to privatise the flag or to realise the greenfield investment, but the government appears in the role of the company and makes the controversial arrangement, in which 300m euros will be damaged through the huge tax relief granted to the "Fiato" of Serbia's citizens. Under 10, despite pre-election promises from the ruling coalition that indices on the Belgrade Stock Exchange would grow, it happened exactly the opposite: indices experienced the biggest decline in the history of the Belgrade Stock Exchange. Under eleven, the government has no capacity to continue the process of economic reforms, which is described by failed attempts to privatise the largest Serbian enterprises (Yat, RTB Bor, IMT, EI Nis). Under twelve, according to the latest surveys by the international organisation Transparensi International, the corruption index in Serbia is growing, and an open obstruction of the work of the State Auditing Institution indicates that citizens will not be given insight into the use of state resources and control of government work. So that all of this would not be just general, out of a large series of unfulfilled promises, we will single out only some of the delusions of Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who is properly called Hydra, because his tentacles are everywhere where there is money and fraud: the fraud of the century about the distribution of free shares worth 1,000 euros (Note - visit the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development www. Oh, my God. yu); under two, responsibility for repealing the concession for the construction of the Horgos-Pozega highway; under three, preventing investors from privatising the Yata and RTB Bor; under four, constantly obstructing the realisation of the energy agreement with Russia; five, the Kristo case and the malversion in the public enterprise of Belgrade Airport; increasing budget expenditure by setting up new public enterprises, instead of privatising the existing ones, which directly interferes with the work of other ministries; responsibility for shutting down Serbian banks and preventing Russian banks from entering our market. The promises he used for marketing purposes, and then forgot, are: a reduction in profit tax for employers hiring new workers; higher and even salaries for teachers in preschool institutions in Serbia's territory; higher premiums for farmers; dinar stability; inflation up to 10%; an increase in economic growth in 2009. Economic growth from 6.5 to 3%. The media darkness that prevailed when the "semaphor coalition" came to power has made it impossible for opposition parties, such as New Serbia, to get adequate space in the media. Yesterday at 11:30 in front of the "Russian Emperor" in Belgrade, the New Serbia City Committee held an action titled "Sightsee". In writing, we shared 12 lies and government deceptions and, of course, Mladjan Dinkic; I also hand-distributed representatives of the opposition, as well as representatives of the authorities who were allowed to take that paper, to look at what was going on. We brought these on that occasion and these glass wipers on the glasses, because it's obvious that Baron Minhauzena's government is not only wearing these pink glasses, but her glasses are also clouded. I think it would be nice to give the presidents of the Assembly one of these rags, and I expect you, Mrs Djukic, to assess, by your conscience and professional skill, who needs to be given a gift – whether this person is in the role of Serbian President, who is in fact the prime minister, or a person who doesn't get involved very much in his job. If necessary, we'll add Thomas Wolfe's novel "Look at your home, Angels" or possibly a CD Bora Chorbe.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8572	Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8573	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, how am I supposed to talk about the amendment later? But since there are the ideologists of the Democratic Party, it will be a great pleasure for me, because, of course, I am involved in the fight against primitives, protests in politics, political action. Of course, you know that, when you vote from Bodrum, it's not civilized, it's not nice. You have to be nice. To return to what is the problem of this article 52. There are two amendments to Article 52, and I think both applicants of the amendment had very good intentions to help the government regulate this matter, and that is responsibility for the damage. I think the need for such an amendment was first of all because those who wrote the Constitution had practically thrown something out of the Constitution that was transferred from our constitutions to their knees, which is one provision on the responsibility of civil servants for the damage done during their duties. Since these provisions are no longer in the Constitution, now the legislators, when they need to regulate responsibility for damages stemming from a civil servant in the performance of official duties, resort to some formulas that are a little like that provision from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which is no longer present, and much more to something that is already traditional with us, which are some of the provisions of the Law on Bond Relations. If it's being watched, this is at the level of what's regulated by the Bond Relations Act. Then the question arises - what has provoked the applicants of the amendment so much that they think this stereotype is not enough? I came to the conclusion that you simply confused people because you're in article 51. The draft law on the public prosecutor's office practically signed the relevant provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on immunity. But these are now two different substances: Article 51 speaks of criminal responsibility, Article 52 speaks of material responsibility for damages. Article 52's position is good because it prescribes the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia for all cases where the damage is caused by the prosecutor or the deputy prosecutor, in two cases: illegal and irregular work. However, due to the specific function of the prosecution and prosecutors and deputies, acting in some cases, the issue of damage is quite imaginary here. Why? It will be a more real danger when the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure are in place where the investigation is given to the prosecutor. Then it will gain meaning. In the current circumstances, when there is an investigative judge etc., the prosecutor could only be held responsible for gross negligence (I'm a little improvising right now) when applying for an investigation or prosecution, but later it is all legal proceedings and not only the prosecutor's fault but also the court's proceedings. There's no responsibility, practically. What the amendment's proposings wanted to edit is, essentially, to prevent the abuse of the prosecution's procedural powers so as not to jinx a man. But by the logic of things, as an accomplice, the court is reporting. There are great uncertainty regarding the application of Article 52, and Article 1 and Article 2. I don't want to discourage the applicants of the amendment, I don't want to intimidate the audience, I don't want to encourage prosecutors, but responsibility for the damage to the prosecution is too special. I must say, there will be an exception. Here's an example: even during a famous arrest during a state of emergency, 13,000 people, 11, 12, it doesn't matter how much, if they were a little stronger, they'd be 50,000... (President: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8574	The People's MPs Milutin Jelicic and Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is submitted to the amendment by Radoslav Mojsilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, Article 52. The draft law on the public prosecutor's office has regulated the responsibility of the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor for the damage caused by the public prosecutor's office. The Member's position states: "When the final decision of the Constitutional Court finds that the judicial decision, i.e. the settlement before the court or other competent authorities, determines that the damage has been done on purpose or with extreme indifference, the Republic of Serbia may request a public prosecutor, i.e. a deputy public prosecutor, compensation for the amount paid. "The amendment submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group suggests that the words "public prosecutor or deputy public prosecutor will suffer legal consequences under the law of the Republic of Serbia" are added to the words "intentional or extreme negligence"; the current text "Republic of Serbia" continues to be deleted, and the word "can" continues to be deleted and the text "will ask the public prosecutor, that is, the deputy public prosecutor's compensation for the amount paid". That supplement and correction is necessary because the non-connection of intentionally caused damage or damage caused by extreme negligence with the Criminal Code and criminal liability amnesties the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor against criminal liability, because the intentionally caused damage or damage caused by extreme negligence in the performance of the official duty are the elements of certain criminal acts prescribed by the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. If the law applies to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it must be imperative for both public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, especially since possible abuse of public prosecutorial office has a special connotation. When it comes to deliberately causing damage, the most severe forms of crime in which the intention is expressed, which in a criminal sense constitutes a direct imagination as the most difficult form of wine. There must not be anything debateable about the existence of a crime and the criminal responsibility of any person, including a public prosecutor and a deputy public prosecutor. Also, the damage caused by extreme negligence is an integral part of the substance of certain crimes, with only being able to be a potentially easier form of wine, but there must not be any discussion about the existence of a criminal offence and the criminal responsibility of any person, nor of the public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor. If there is a criminal offence in concrete situations, in no case can it be said that the Republic of Serbia can ask a public prosecutor or deputy public prosecutor for compensation for the amount paid, which is why the amendment submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group "can" and suggests "will seek". It is obvious that there can be no alternative in this position in terms of damages from the Republic of Serbia, unlike those of the 1st member. The government has not accepted this amendment. The explanation she gave is arbitrary and gives the impression that there has been a very superficial interpretation of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8576	Thank you. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, before I say a few important things about this amendment, and this one too, I don't think anyone who does this job seriously is left behind and can't be without a comment on what we saw last night and listened to in the appearance of Mladjan Dinkic on one television, and this morning Oliver Dulic on the same television and on the same subject – turns out poor Bojan Kristo is completely innocent, no one knows why he resigned. In fact, they say Dinkic and this morning Dulic that it is a mistake; even Oliver Dulic says that Bojan Kristo is a finished story, there is nothing to talk about anymore. When we talked here about the abuse of this Mr. Bojan Krisht, we insisted that the Government of the Republic of Serbia urgently replace him, we insisted that UBPOK enter Belgrade Airport and enter the financial inspection there. Why am I stressing this now? Of course, we said that we would not mention the subject for a certain number of days, counting on those services to leave a deadline for them to finish their work and to inform the National Assembly. But if Oliver Dulic says that Bojan Kristo is a finished story and that there is nothing to talk about anymore, then we are rightly afraid that it is a finished story for the government of the Republic of Serbia and that they do not think of sending neither UBPOK nor financial inspection. Then there's a logical question -- why didn't the government replace Bojan Kristi the moment we were talking about him here, about malfeasances and abuses that were obvious, but let them go through three days, that he left alone, and in the meantime, to remove everything he could get away, to pick up everything he had to pick up and end the story. This morning, we were contacted by people who were once employed at Belgrade Airport, 80 of them. The group's representatives are now employed by an agency that's also here somewhere at the airport, which no one knows about, it's some stock company, as they called it. It is, of course, the kind of restructuring of the airport, so it was presented not by Kristo but by the one Nedeljkovic before him. Kristo promised to change that, but not until today, or the day he fled to Dusseldorf, he didn't do anything with those people. Eighty people come to work every day, do the same jobs they did when they were employed at the airport, but now in this limited-responsibility society, or maybe I didn't understand them very well... Generally, they are in that status where they do not have a new job contract, because they have a working contract with Belgrade Airport, and then this Nedeljkovic and their director made some transactions completely unknown to them. What's the point? People come to work every day, do their jobs, and believe it or not, they haven't received a single dollar in the name of profit since January 1, this year, let alone, don't give God a bonus, as Kristo got. Why was it interesting to me what I was listening to this morning when Oliver Dulic spoke on that show? If you followed that show, it was obvious Mr Oliver Dulic's evil intention, because he clearly explained which public enterprises, which directors may and may have the right, as supervisors, as he presented last night and Dinkić Bojana Krište, to use some bonuses, which they cannot at all. It's obviously party people. He emphasized that, for example, Telecom and Mr. Radyukko have competition in Serbia and that it is normal for him to share what he can earn and share because, God, he is doing it successfully; then he mentioned, of course, this Krishta, which he thinks is the only mistake he has shared in this crisis time. He also mentioned some directors of public enterprises who, he says, are losers, but do not belong to parties that are now in power – e, they have no right to any compensation. Is it normal to get a bonus for successful work in June? Well, I guess the success or failure of a company can be established at the end of the business year. Once before, public companies received a bonus in the form of a thirteenth salary, but that thirteenth salary was paid by all employees, and not like now, half the year, and that's just a team of chosen ones. We really hope that we will not be forced to reopen this issue using the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Just a reminder for the sake of the public, I have said this that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not think that we have forgotten what the government's obligations are and what we have ordered from here to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. God, I don't think that job's going to do anything. When it comes to amendments to Articles 52 and 53, it must be noted that it is good amendments and that it is completely unclear why the government has not accepted them. The most important thing, from the point of view of the Government, is that these amendments do not in any way compromise the government's concept of the Public Prosecutor's Law proposal and that is why it is unclear and illogical why something is not accepted when it is obvious that these amendments would only strengthen it. The amendments concern liability for damages, such a title is above these members. These amendments would only strengthen and bring responsibility for the damage that can be caused by the work of the public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors. There have been reminders here; simply, we can never miss an opportunity without reminding the citizens of Serbia of the "Sabbe" action, of 14,000 arrested in the "Sabbe" action, of the fact that only 40 people were followed up with certain procedures, that the state of Serbia and citizens of Serbia and today pay compensation to all those people who have been arrested without legal grounds. Of course, these people are right and of course these people need to get material compensation for everything that's been done to them in this "Sabbe" action; not only personally, for the abuse and in many cases of torture in custody, but also for the fact that these people had a problem both in the family and in the neighbourhood and in the wider family, in the workplaces and so on, because the accusations that they followed back then certainly left a trail. Therefore, it is not disputed that compensation should be paid to them, but it is disputed who in the state of Serbia will answer for it, who will refund the state of Serbia or the citizens of Serbia for that kind of money. We will also ask for this information, but since we know that some of the procedures are still under way, we are waiting for it to be completed and it is round and we are going to ask the Serbian Supreme Court for information on how much money is paid to the citizens of Serbia in the name of this immaterial damage. Then we'll ask if anyone answered. If such and similar things were not to happen, it would be good to accept amendments to Articles 52 and 53. It's a bill of law. If you have already provided for in Article 52: "When it is", as it states, "the final decision of the Constitutional Court, the judicial decision, or the settlement before the court or other competent authorities found that the damage was caused by the intentional or extreme indifference of the Republic of Serbia", says, "it may ask the public prosecutor, or the deputy public prosecutor for the amount paid", and if this amendment was proposed that the public prosecutor or deputy prosecutor would suffer legal consequences, according to the criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, if such damage occurs, then there is no reasonable reason why it does not stand and in the bill of law. The reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia is: "The government does not accept the amendment. Article 52, whose amendment is proposed, addresses the issue of damages caused by the irregular or illegal work of a public prosecutor, i.e. the deputy public prosecutor. If the actions of the prosecutor's office get the markings of a criminal offence against official duty, their responsibility will be determined in criminal proceedings. “ If you have provided for a litigation procedure, we do not see why you should not also provide for criminal proceedings, for you will have to do this damage in some litigation procedure. No one has the power or authority to tell the prosecutor – the state and citizens of Serbia because of your wrong and malicious decision have paid someone compensation in that amount, now you, Mr. Prosecutor or Deputy Prosecutor, are going to return it to the state. Such a mechanism does not exist and should not exist. So, if you yourself predicted that a litigation is being conducted here if this abuse or over-response of responsibility occurs, then there must be a criminal liability obligation. It's as easy as Kristo - he took the money, who knows how much he took away, his dad gave him back a piece of money in some account, we don't know which, and now he doesn't care. It can't be like that. If anyone in any way damages the state of Serbia, he must be held accountable, not only materially. Mrs. Malovic, the word "can" is particularly problematic. It would be really good, this is a message for the entire government, for all ministers – when you propose laws don't say in those laws that the state of Serbia, that any competent authority can do anything. The law must say that it must be done, that it will be done. What does it mean -- if someone caused damage on purpose or with extreme negligence, could the Republic of Serbia ask a public prosecutor or his deputy for compensation for the amount paid? What does that "can" depend on? What does it depend on? It cannot, Mrs Malovic, depend on the height of the damage; however much damage someone purposely or misused, it is a pity. At least because of this, it should accept the amendment, that it clearly states that each bar will fit in materially. Because every time, in every law, in every member, when it stands to be able to do something, it means - it doesn't have to. It opens up the possibility of abuse. This opens up the possibility of choosing. I will not choose for you. This also has the government's influence on the prosecution, which should be an independent body. Independent, sorry, courts are independent, and the prosecution is independent. So he can't be independent enough to know that the state of Serbia... And whoever on behalf of the Serbian state doesn't stand for it either. I apologize for the weather. If he knows he can do something and he doesn't have to, he'll make sure he's the one who can do something bad, and in his case, use this "can." Mrs. Malovic, you keep telling us that you are in favour of reform and that you sincerely want it. We trust you, but then you have to avoid this sort of thing. A legal standard that is not precise, clear, concise opens up the possibility of abuse. We are convinced that this is not an accident, but that you are deliberately preparing bill proposals, that you will deliberately adopt such laws so that you can manipulate both prosecutors and judges later and all that suits you. Of course, not you personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8578	Thank you. Mr. Milan Avramovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8579	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with the proposed amendment to Article 52, which sets out the provisions on how a state prosecutor should behave, or his deputy, under which conditions he should respond, and under which no, the minister has spoken here - depending on the level of damage, I would re-determin that response, because it depends on political membership, more precisely on the determination, of this independent state prosecutor, although it is said not to be, according to the Code of Society, committed to any political party, but that is not why I reported to the Rules of Procedure. Madam Minister, on Thursday, I asked you a question, and I gave you a correct and fair time-limit to give an answer, whether you'd fence yourself from a memo or from a report by the Society of Judges that condemned the opposition's MPs to press and media links to those judges who did not work according to the court code. So we were accused here, even by some small souls who confessed to work as porters if it wasn't for the Serbian Radical Party, that it was a great happiness for them, to see it even on their faces. But we didn't get an answer from you if we really did what the Judges' Society accused us of. This fits this Article 52, which says that the Justice Ministry is expected from the competent authorities, primarily the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, to determine whether there are also elements of the criminal offence in the statements of the MPs, endangering the safety of the legal holders. This is where I'd like to underline - the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. The Ministry asked the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office for something that doesn't exist. I've read the codes, the canons, by which judges should be guided. I read the Criminal Code, Article 138, by which it should, in fact, be set in motion and made it clear that this member does not submit to what the MPs from this pay phone said. I didn't get either the media route or the oral answer from you to ask if you're building up, in front of the Ministry, on this statement from the Society of Judges, do you agree with him, so I know how to put myself on the line about the next amendments. Because it is obvious that this, and this is the beginning of my exposure – the punishment of prosecutors, judges or anyone, depends solely on the political line, as is seen in the judgments made in the way they are made. So, in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, I ask you to answer the question whether you agree with the Judges' Society's statement and whether you will present the denials in relation to their statement, which is totally contrary to the Serbian Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8580	On the basis of Article 63, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabaković. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Tabakovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8581	Honorable MPs, respected citizens, Article 66. The bill defines the duty of notifying related persons and the possibility of private interest determining the state's prosecutor's relationship with a case. Accordingly, the deputy public prosecutor is obliged, according to the bill, to inform the public prosecutor in writing of the second function, business or private interest which is likely to be incompatible with its function. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the parliament club "Forward Serbia" provides for an addendum that the deputy prosecutor is obliged to inform both of the business or of the private interest of members of his family's ropes which are likely to be incompatible with his function. In response to this amendment, the government says it does not accept it, because the conflict of interest of those in public function is a detailed law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which will be in force until the application of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and that it is sufficient to protect those who are obliged to protect the interests of the Serbian state and the interests of Serbian citizens from being guided by their own personal interest or the interests of members of their family. I know that many injured people who seek justice will lose property and health agree with me that this is not a sufficient definition. I'll just give you a few examples. How much the Committee, as an authority to resolve conflicts of interest, solves this part in a vivid manner, says one of the examples where Mr Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, a man in conflict of interest, and as a result of the non-application of the competition clause, which applies to any employee, and according to the Labour Treaty, he has acquired huge millions. In a language that understands all citizens, this means that by misusing the privileged information he had in the government, earlier as a member of the government, and the finance minister, he managed to make huge millions that couldn't even win the Nobel Prize for Economy. By re-involving such a man, whom I refer to by name because of the paradigm of phenomena, the government's appointment as Deputy Prime Minister has shown that its fight for the protection of the state's interest and the fight against corruption is based on law and words. That's where it starts, and that's where it ends. Life and reality say that the government is sending a completely different message – that such people are being protected, in fact. The last example could have been called "the potter affair." I wouldn't mention a man's name if I hadn't made a statement in the paper that he had been given a very high tax base at the time when his actions in a certain drug-trafficking company had given up, so he wouldn't be in this conflict of interest. He publicly threatens, through newspapers, that if his tax base is not reduced, he will reveal which members of the government and ministers were in the same situation and are set a lower basis for paying taxes. The unambiguous conclusion is this: the existing legislation is not well-determined enough not to abuse the function of a public servant. Much greater weight is if someone in the name of the state is in charge of carrying out justice and protecting the interest is not legally restricted, or members of his family, as connected persons, not to bring justice to someone's guide, without being directly sanctioned. Isn't it enough that this is not a practice in the conduct of judges, prosecutors and lawyers in Vojvodina, about which Mr. Chikiriz presented one piece? I'll take out one piece that... At a time when we are talking about the need to arrive at a budget that is late, the Republic of Serbia, as a compensation for damages, can be extremely costing the strength and conflict of interest of those who are in the circle, those who submit applications, those who decide on them, those who judge; they can damage the budget of the Republic of Serbia in millions, and thus each of us citizens individually, because we are completely unfounded or silenced by the state, which is equally, taking away significant funds, which could be directed into social protection, development or anything like that. There is a widespread practice in Vojvodina to carry out cases of damage compensation on the basis of an unfounded deprivement of the freedom most frequently depreciated, or to adopt a liberating verdict, or as a consequence of the non-starting procedure within a time limit, or to suspend the procedure. The second, extremely widespread, is the compensation for damages on the basis of unpaid disability, unemployment and other social benefits, where the Law on Boring and Invalidity Protection, which was applied in the period from 1999 to 2002... and mass errors in the accounts under these solutions, which amount to a few tens of thousands of dinars from 2002 to 2006, as so low as the basics, are resolved in a first-degree procedure in the municipal court, the next body is the District Court, also in Vojvodina, but a verdict is passed that corresponds to the applicant, which is mass-based. But then interest on these claims comes to millions of dollars; objections from the public defenders, who are obliged on behalf of the state to protect the budget from these damages, are not respected and you will, we will, the citizens of Serbia will meet with the fact that we have to pay millions in damages. Another basis for compensation for damages to go to the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is evidence of such sprays, is food and regresses sought by those working in institutions for the execution of prison sanctions, prisons, as the people would say. The courts in Novi Sad and Vojvodina do not accept any outstanding objections to protection and absolute malpractice, which the prosecutor points out on behalf of the state, as confirmed by the district courts, and I can tell you that claims for damages are already moving at the rate of two hundred million dinars on this basis alone. How is that possible? In view of the closed circle of those who file charges, those who judge, someone smart took advantage of the legal basis for unfounded wealth of the state. Such a relationship, according to the Law on Bond Relations, does not go out of date within ten years. Such a claim is not outdated, lawyers have a very nice business to pay for the Republic of Serbia. The damages question goes so far that one case in Petrovaradin has been charged with damages to the house during NATO aggression. No one thought to point out that the state was not in a position to exercise effective power in 1999 at the time of NATO aggression. From whose country do you allow this kind of damage to be sought? Do you, Madam Minister, know there is this problem? Do you know how much it will cost all of us and do you know that in a situation like this you have a future judgment for violations, which is now called an organ that exists and works in virtually inhumane conditions in the 21st century? In order for these cases not to happen, you must by law make it impossible for those who become smarter than you and all legal professionals, whom I highly appreciate, to think that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is a foreign budget and that some other citizens are filling it. What I still want to add is that this amendment is one way to restore the reputation of the prosecution, which greatly contributes to the weakening of citizens' confidence in the state. At a time when we say that trust is what the banking system stands on, what savings rest on and what we can resist with common forces is the coming crisis, I have a request from small shareholders Sekerana from Kovačica and Synthelon from Backa Palanka, who have been breaking the thresholds for years in front of courts trying to prove that they've been deceived in the tracks that I'm talking about. "Synthelon" from Backa Palanca, which we were all proud of as one of the successful examples of privatisation, illegally selling the right to buy shares in the second round damaged small shareholders by buying that right from them for 100 marks then. With the arrogance of the big ones, who think they can buy everything and they can twist everyone's ears because everyone can shut up in some way, people lose confidence in their own country, lose confidence in action. In the case of the Agricultural goods "Bačka" from Canople and "Parmons", which someone is trying to choke, because 2,000 hectares is a significant land, we have the case that the Agency for Economic Registers, based on forged documents, registers some owners, and admits in the same situation forged calls for buy-outs in the second round. Can this lead to trust in the state, some patience and hope that we'll get out of all this? Please consider this amendment carefully. Don't think it's too high. If that is the joint endeavor of all of us, it is not too much to put into this law that we are discussing. (All the time the speech of MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic SRS MPs are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8582	By amendment, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8583	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I hope you will understand that I am now in grave doubt: whether to talk about Article 66 and the amendment submitted to that member or to continue where the predecessor has stopped, with the way he has convinced the government to accept this amendment. To remove one great delusion from the beginning. I'm really sorry, but I have to support the government. You know how I feel about this government. So, heavy hearts, that's the end of the world. I have to tell you, you've come out of this well. But, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, when someone sits here for years and learns nothing, but absolutely nothing learns, it's a dangerous thing. In order for you to understand what this is about, take the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, article 163 says: Incompatibility of the prosecutor's office. Then we have here a whole chapter that starts with Article 65, which is the incompatibility of the prosecution function, and we have an amendment that refers to something that ended a month ago, which is a conflict of interest. So, the incompatibility of the prosecutor's office, as a constitutional category, and conflict of interest, as something that's regulated, and as regards Article 66 concerning the reporting of assets and the reporting of jobs and all that. Let me explain what this is about: these are the applications that all public functions have to file. That's not even freed by prosecutors. You know, what it's worth is that someone sits in the congregation for ten years when they can't learn anything. Now, to distract you now, that's the other part, Mrs. Djukic, you don't want to be angry, I have to use the same argument; if I dispute some amendment, I have to use the argument that this amendment is glorific. There was talk here about some damages. Mrs. Malovic, please pay attention. You'll have one very good example, for the next 12 minutes I'll explain it to you in my chosen words. You see, you would have to, once you've followed this area in a consistent manner, study the area of funding of political parties. We listened to a Miss Alexandra Dracun here, but she doesn't even know what the election is. We have the worst law on funding political parties. You agree. Let me tell you, we're now getting bills for the election campaign. On Friday, you had a chance to hear here, that account, some TV "Avala", signed by someone who doesn't use drugs, as far as the election campaign is concerned; they filed a report, and you're a member of the RIK and you know you saw that report. Now you'll see it. Here you've heard a beautiful story about how the courts in Vojvodina... I was surprised, I thought there would be more speeches about courts in Kosovo and Metohija, but now Vojvodina is interesting. Now let me explain to you: one "zumbul", although it was forbidden, signed a loan contract, says, 50 million takes credit, no purpose; there's a member there -- in the case of a loan user, and there's a provision on ecology -- if that money builds something, to stick to technical norms. No one alive knew that he had concluded the contract, because he was forbidden. He cheats on the bank, cheats everything in order, and then writes, says – as soon as the elections are over and we get the money based on the election results, we will repay the loan. When the time came to do it anonymously, and I didn't know it, because another man who was authorized to sign it, allegedly, and the chief accountant, all fled to these tycoons there. You see, June changes the contract, so make it long-term by 2012 and create a commitment of 68 million dinars, so nobody knows. Let me explain, it's an unauthorized representation. He who unauthorizedly represents, makes up for the bank's damage and conducts the procedure. That's how it's gonna end. Just to remind you, a dozen days ago, I said that those who conduct the procedure for terminating the contract with the council will execute these disputes and that the lawyers of the Serbian Radical Party will be making money, 20,000 per case. Now they're in a situation where their lawyers don't want to represent their interests, but they're angry at the professors of law school who tricked the councilors, allegedly the councillors. It's a disaster. Don't frown. They're giving you lectures here. Before me, you listened to the lecture, incompetent. You see, one is incompatibility of functions, and the other is conflict of interest. Two different things, grandmothers and frogs. No, it's painted, it's taken care of, it's a little... You know, he says -- you're a failure, he says, I'm wearing a thousand-euro suit, 500 euros in shoes, the camera wants me, I'm going here. And now he's set up Nikolic, he can't even enter the O.R., because there's only some bills and some contracts coming in, and that's what Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic keeps here, so you know. She keeps it, she does it, legalizes it here. Mrs. Malovic, the situation is completely clean, but I'm running a criminal procedure, because they were resignations, no resignations, I lost. Confession - Empress evidence. It is clear to all but Boris Tadic; and to him it is not clear, because Srdjan Milivojević persuades him, because he is the main ideologist of the Democratic Party when the hall is not Dragoljub Micunovic. For the sake of the public, you know, Susana Grubjesic is not in the O.R. and Hope Kolundžija is not in the O.R., and these are the laws to be applied from 1. 1. 2010 Two days ago, they were screaming on TV -- European laws, the opposition blocking, everything is a disaster. They're not in the O.R., and that's why we're late for Europe. Now whoever stole it is giving you lectures. Come on to you, but give the public a lecture. The amendment on the incompatibility of functions – that means that the prosecutor and deputy prosecutor cannot at the same time perform that function while performing another function, whether it is private or otherwise. And the amendment refers to the application of property to women, children, etc. It's regulated by that law, and by that law, you've now created a Anti-Corruption Agency. There, the grandmothers and frogs, the grandmothers and frogs; these are the amendments with the slamming, these are the amendments with the slamming, and they need to be pounded, so the public doesn't hear, they're just terrible things to hear here. Now someone's giving us a lecture... Imagine, they're criticizing Bojan Krishte. I feel like defending a man. Well, I feel like defending a man. At least everything is registered, if something is wrong, it will fit, and here Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic is guarding this group. He's guarding this group. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic knows that we are now getting contracts, invoices, what are all these pirated, beautifully dressed, which the people love, they have done. I have to tell you, Mrs. Malovic, maybe two or three courts are making a mess like this Kragujevac, not to read to you about Kragujevac, I have a lot of stuff there. These others did a very correct job, in accordance with the law. What's it worth when the Assembly won't do the job in accordance with the law? He won't. Beware that a man faints: Tomislav Nikolic accuses Mladjan Dinkic of crime. Come on, explain to me how it can be done. I know it's funny to you, that's what you wanted. That's what you wanted. The Duke of Bajcetina is attacking the Duke of Meridian Bank. "Zumbul" to "Zumbula" and Serbia is having fun with the zumbal; the zumbalica, as our people would say. You see, what you've heard you accept with the reserve as an explanation of that amendment, a blue explanation, and I have to say, hard hearts, you were right when you didn't accept the amendment. Because your member regulates grandmothers, and you change the way frogs push. Remember, last week you were pushed by a court by a name that doesn't exist. Do you remember? I had to, and then, heavy hearts, to commend you. I don't know how you continued this, how these amendments of theirs are going civil, I'm going to have to praise you. Although, heavy heart, I'm bleeding, what else can I say, I've got nothing. How can I commend the Democratic Party? It's a disaster. It's like Chanak was saying - you have to sit on your hand, get it numb, then circle Kostunica. So did he. Now I totally get it. It's hard for me to support this attitude of yours, but I have to, the profession tells me what to do. If I didn't support it, they'd say, "Well, now you're embarrassing yourself, so far you're saying everything in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and now you're getting confused." I don't want to get in the way. Why would I get in the way? That's the situation, Mrs. Malovic. That's the situation. You had opportunities before me to hear about thefts, crime, and then the citizen rents 4,800, so they don't come down from television, like the NGO Natasa Kandic. Natasa Kandic, however, has failed for a little while these last two months, but they have come up with a zumbule. Don't come down, you want the Pyramid, you want NASA, I'm just waiting for them to run out of that charm when they're cooking on Pinka; there's this show, it's cooking lunch, just so she doesn't run out of there yet. He's got him everywhere. He just hasn't run out of there yet. I'm saying this because it seems to suit you now. Just so you know, it's gonna hit on your head. I know you do. He's gonna be banging on your head real quick. As the day goes by, people are getting clearer and clearer about the operation. With what? It doesn't matter. What's to hide? Thief, Eulex, the most primitive and simple thing, which is anti-civilization. Your policy is to represent something that is contrary to civilization flows: voting from Bodrum, lies in campaign, fraud. You see this crime on boards; well, Todorovic kills himself, a poor guy, six months reading data, official income data. You dead cold, you don't care. But when it got a little lost, then the Kumanian Agreement, so EULEX, then the EU, then the oil, then the gas deal, so whether it's in the government or not, now you've found some things to do. Slowly, people, everything is recorded, all your anti-civilization procedures are recorded, and what's in Bodrum, and what's in Thessaloniki, and what you've arrested 13,000 people, and the privatisations, and the banks, and the free shares, the Fiat, and that and this. Everything is remembered and must be branded. Why? These are moves of primitiveism, prosaclouse, to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now you realize how difficult it was for me to say that I support your position for not accepting that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8584	Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word. I'd just like to let you know that we'll continue our work after 18 hours, in accordance with Article 85. We'll have a break between 15 and 16 hours. We'll work until the end of the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8585	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief. As regards the amendment to Article 66(1), which was submitted by counterpart Jorvanka Tabaković, Article 66 is therefore located in the chapter Incompatibility of Prosecutorial Functions with other functions, jobs or private interests. We believe that this amendment intervention is consistent, regardless of the matter of conflict of interest, or the prevention of conflicts of interest, is subject to regulation under other regulations and other laws that we have recently adopted. The adoption of this amendment also provides for the obligation of the Deputy Prosecutor and the Public Prosecutor, in paragraph 2, to inform the competent authority governed by Article 66 concerning the business and the private interest and members of the family and the deputy prosecutors and prosecutors. For this reason, MEPs for European Serbia will vote in the vote on the amendment day. I thank you, since I have a session of the Legislative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8586	Thank you. National MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic, written on November 28, 2008, withdrew the amendment they submitted together to Article 74, paragraphs 1 and 2. It's a bill of law. National MP Branko Ruzic submitted to the 77th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to article 89. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic, the government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, who did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Mrs. Milica Radovic, and then Mr. Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to article 89 requesting that attitudes 2 and 3 be deleted. I, for the sake of the public, will read Opinions 2rd and 3rd where it is said: "Extremely, at the request of the republican public prosecutor, the State's chief prosecutor may extend the working century to the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor for another two years, with his consent. The public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor can only be extended for the purpose of completing the work on the cases initiated. "We have submitted this amendment when it comes to the draft law on the High Council of Justice and the arguments that we have then used I will now use. I believe that the motion of this member did not specify the very purpose of this member in the most precise way, because the bill states that it is justified for the deputy or the public prosecutor to extend the working century in order to complete the work on all cases, and in the light of the Government, it is said that, in order to extend the working century, the prosecutor's office needs a request from the Republic's public prosecutor, which will only be required in cases where it is necessary to complete the case by the public prosecutor or the deputy who started it. So, in reason, it doesn't come from what was meant to be in the bill itself, because it's spoken in one piece, it's about one concrete proposal. I believe, and I also said about the proposal for a law on the High Council of the Judiciary, that there may be more understanding, but not quite the excuse to extend the working age when it comes to a specific case which for some reason has received a sign of general importance. But we do not understand the meaning of this provision if the working century is extended to complete all cases given to the public prosecutor or the deputy public prosecutor is assigned. Every public prosecutor, or deputy public prosecutor, at the time he meets the conditions for retirement, has a certain number of cases in his work. This means that by strictly interpreting this provision, we could come to the conclusion that each of them's working lives could be extended because of it. On the other hand, much more interesting than this article is that the State Council of Prosecutors is given the opportunity to extend the prosecutorial office for another two years, past the assembly itself. I'm simply going to remind myself that public prosecutors are elected by the Assembly for a period of six years. In this case, the state's chief prosecutor would be given the opportunity to extend the prosecutor's office from six to eight years of age, and in this case, I find it absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8588	I thank Mrs. Radovic. He has the word Mr. Krasic, according to the amendment, so then Mrs. Radeta, so you, if there's any time under this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8589	This amendment is really interesting and I'm surprised the government didn't accept this. There are a number of reasons why this amendment should be accepted. The first reason is that the first position of this member sets out the conditions for the termination of the public prosecutorial post due to the completed working century. The length of the working century is defined by law and cannot be defined by some other regulation, or by some other regulation. Furthermore, the provision of age (65 and 40 years of insurance training) is an adequate provision, in accordance with the existing system; everyone is considered to have lost that working capacity at 65 years of age, that is, the fact. Yes, now time makes it its own that this working ability can last and on, but here a legal presummation is being created; 40 years of insurance training is also a very clear legal presummation. In terms of Articles 2 and 3 of the 89, an exception is discussed in a very strange way, as you have conjecture this member so that the State's Major Prosecutors can extend the working century. No one can extend the working century if it's prescribed by law. How? You took one provision that remained in our Higher Education Act. She's a college professor, where it's also something like that. However, this has been an exception in our labour law before, with some additional conditions to be met (school year etc.).So college professors could be in a working relationship by 67 years, with this extension after 65 years of life. I don't think we're in that situation anymore that we should tolerate these things. I would now draw attention, because I remember, when our working-legislative legislation was changed in time and when the entire system of laws had to be adapted to individual directors, let's say, the director of "May 1st" Pirot didn't have a high school, and then they alternatively introduced school equipment as a condition for the election for the director. Then some other variations were made, that is, our laws changed and adapted to the existing situation in the party economy at the time. I guess that's what we said goodbye to. Now we have another kind of party addiction, like boards, bodies, etc. I think the situation here is quite clear. So the working age can't be extended by someone who's an organ. The working age is defined, first of all, by law. Bosko could do whatever he wanted, he hopes he could do it now. Now you will see this situation, you have adopted all these resistance amendments, with the character and part of Konstantinovic, but then we will come up with these amendments. However, it is a pity that there is no debate here and the amendments adopted by the Government, the Legislative Committee and these others, and that is the lack of this Rules of Procedure. Just because the government accepted it and became an integral part of the bill doesn't mean we're not allowed to talk about it. Careful, the minister of justice and the chairman of the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can also be astronauts. You're a member of the government, ma'am, or the minister of justice, not you. The minister of justice is a member of the government, headed by the Ministry and is a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, a member of the State Council of Prosecutors – where can a man do that? Look, I guess there has to be some kind of separation between the D.A.'s office and the court. I hope we have to move the D.A.'s office out of the courthouse to the police building real quick. We'll have to. It's incompatible. How are they supposed to be in the same building? The Hague tribunal inherited this from us. The chief persecutors are not prosecutors of the UN tribunal, they're people from here. They gave them some experience there, it's in The Hague: the court, the prosecution - in the same room. Where else in Europe is there - the court and the prosecution in the same building? The Hague tribunal has accepted all the worst from our system. And that coverage of the verdict, the sentence of a prison with the length of detention, etc., it's a communist formation here with us, made up. We now have these special forces; so, Bosko Ristic, in the morning he discusses at the High Council of the Judiciary, in the afternoon he discusses at the State Council of Prosecutors, tomorrow morning at the Justice Committee, afternoon at the National Assembly, and then he goes home, invites the president of the municipal, district court and says: this one can't be a judge, this one can't be, this one can't be a prosecutor, etc. Bosko Ristic and you, ma'am, for the time being at the post, you will be the largest authority, sometime by 1 January 2010, anything will happen. That's the problem. We've got another problem here, so two years from now, it's two years from now, completely unwarranted. Justified is the reason there are some objects in the work, so he hasn't finished them yet. How many of these things are being done? You've been running a criminal case against me for eight years. When you arrived in 2000, you wrote a criminal charges against me, a request to conduct an investigation, and for eight years it was in the drawer. The D.A. doesn't know what law to apply, because he doesn't know what laws existed, he fell from Mars. The investigative judge is holding his head. You from time to time, for six months, over the papers, something goes... Here, tomorrow you'll have a theme, probably Krasic again. That "Banana" of yours invented his own brother, and I'm an only child. You drive, you drive, you're a very nice house. Drive, just keep an eye out, when you win, Serbia gets hurt. Eight years against me, you've been running a criminal trial. It didn't move any further than the testimony I gave as a potential suspect. Everyone grabbed their heads, but the indictment was written by Mladjan Dinkic, Zoran Djindjic, Bozidar Djelic, Zoran Zivkovic, who was the "Banana", he was a spiritual inspirationist, "Blic". When I sue them, my case goes out in court. When they sue me, it's been sitting in a drawer for eight years. That's our judiciary. I didn't mean to talk about this in the part where it was about the damages. Now you need a prosecutor to extend two more years to finish the party's work. You know, and these prosecutors are now like a bear on a pan, playing, waiting for what's gonna happen to them. You have an organization all over the place, you'll only have an organization by the number of prosecutors, a deputy prosecutor, and those people don't know what's gonna happen. You have a system of pressure and anxiety. It's primitive, it's simple, it's not civilized. Those moves are contrary to civilization. You need to get back into the civilization frameworks. You must adhere to the Constitution and the law, not primitive methods... They're going to "Today," "B92," "Pink." That's not how politics is run. When you run politics like that, then all institutions are belittled. We have this problem that all institutions here have been humiliated. Maybe some of them are for a reason, maybe some of them are for no reason, but you don't have a thin difference. Today everyone can spit, anyone can glue that he's a criminal, from the president of the state to the bottom. Why? It does not want to implement a new system of values with a question of responsibility for everything and for everything, and for what is done, what is said etc. Please, he voted from Bodrum, Thessaloniki Pajtic, pushed cards here, so we chased him to stop the vote. You're arresting 13,000 people in Sabre action. Remember, some people have lost their right to instruction, without the right to legal protection. I have to tell you, a man from the police couldn't use legal instruction, couldn't object to the settlement of the deployment. Then he did something for himself, and for his family, he stood up to the director of the police, he lost his pension, he has 30,000 less pensions now; he used to be head of the administration, he ended up cleaning up at the police station. His assistants have twice as many pensions as he does. For what? For some stupid revenge. What revenge for? If you think you're writing democratic standards and it represents democratic standards, then that's another term for rematchism. Take care. Don't be afraid of me. I don't have rematchism. But, I don't know, people go crazy, so they vote for someone else. Some new tycoons are coming. See how the tycoons make the parties? Little tycoons, little Americans, little English, little this, little what, Boris the most. Take care. Between love and hate is just one step, intensity is about the same. But just one step. Take care. Ma'am, I think it would be a good idea for a Democratic Party representative to come out and say he accepts the amendment, but he won't. He accepted as a protest, Hope would hang him, not consult with her. I wouldn't be in your shoes when you explain to the government that the Democratic Party has accepted the amendment without the government's stance. Why is that dangerous? There's also those who sit around for a long time, but they don't learn anything. When members of the parties in power submit amendments, so the government does not accept the amendment, and most in the assembly say they will vote in favour of the amendment, the government has actually fallen. Why? The assembly majority is expressing mistrust with their government. But what it's worth, Vlatkovic doesn't know. A man strayed. Such an election combination - strayed. When you're in power, you can't stand the amendments. Or, if you submit an amendment, you agree with the Government to adopt the amendment immediately and become an integral part of the bill. But if you submit an amendment, then the Government rejects you the amendment, and you come out as a party, and we say, we accept that amendment, contrary to the will of the Government, then something is wrong with the Government and with the majority. Vlatkovic came out and said – I'm not sure that G17 plus will vote, I'm not sure about the SPS either. When did he consult with all the parliamentary groups within the majority? It's not. But, hell, they can't stand the criticism and then go out and talk. I can't wait for you to come out here and have some real dialogue. It's not enough that we talk, it's enough for them to hear you. Look how nice it was on that show last night. The people heard Mladjan Dinkic, for the first time in his life he told the truth. He's said a lot of true things. What he's worth, he's exhausted, no one believes him. He cheated on one, the other, the third, the fifth, they say – now he's calmed down, preparing some new scam. He became, so to speak, a brand for fraud. If you want to brand the scam, you just say – Mladjan Dinkic. It's our brand of fraud. A few more seconds, and I'll buy you a Europe. You have no idea how nice it was for me last night when I watched "The Impression of the Week." Well, I say in court that Mladjan Dinkic, before the murder of Zoran Djindjic, did not talk to him, they argued the most. He says in court - it's not true, you're lying. I say - well, Mladjan Dinkic, he asked you, Zoran Djindjic, where is the money from Cyprus, you did not sue him. I asked you from this pay phone where the money from Cyprus was, you sued me. He says – Djindjic and I were in ideal relationships. Last night, he admitted he felt bad that three months before Zoran Djindjic's murder, they were having bad relations. So he's a doozy. Why'd you do it? I have no interest in lying. But I have an interest in waiting for you to admit, like Micun 15 days ago -- you're lying, so he came here twice and confessed everything. Let's go next to confess.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8590	Thank you. Member of the 93rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ruzic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Petar Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by Mr Branko Ruzic should be accepted because it prevents abuses that will happen in practice. As proposed in Article 93, when it comes to special intricacies in the performance of the prosecutor's office, it is considered unprofessional to carry out a public prosecutor's office in an insufficient manner, if the public prosecutor, i.e. the deputy public prosecutor, is given an assessment "unsatisfactory", in accordance with the criteria and criteria for estimating the work of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. There is no answer here, nor to the previous question, which are criteria and criteria, that are published and that today MPs have the opportunity to declare themselves, and also that public prosecutors and their deputies know what these are going to be criteria and criteria for their potentially unprofessional performance of the prosecutor's office. There are some things here that will come around the head in practice. Why? As part of the judicial system and the public prosecutor's office, they share the fate of the court's position in Serbia. Neither the judiciary nor the prosecution have adequate independence. The assembly and the government are under obvious, strong pressure from political parties, so that prosecutors, and to some extent judges, cannot be independent. The weak and incomplete constitutional and legislative regulations continue to apply to the prosecutions, in particular with regard to dependence on the executive authority. Public prosecutors shouldn't be in the hands of the executive. Whether the prosecution's independence is merely declarative remains to be seen in practice. Independence and accountability are key issues for the institution's position, as well as for others in the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia. Let us remind ourselves of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It does not foresee any instrument for public prosecutor's independence and restricting its function, so no new jurisdiction can be added by the new law. The prosecutor's independence is not equal to the independence of the judges, but is even smaller. The new Code of Criminal Procedure has passed the investigation on to prosecutors, but this Code of Criminal Procedure will not, according to the Ministry of Justice's initiative, be applied next year, but rather prepare, as Ms. Malovic announced, amend and supplement the existing and applicable Criminal Procedure Act, which is a better solution than that of this disastrous application of this criminal, and adopted, Code of Criminal Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors are threatened by danger, great danger and a trap. In what? See what's predicted if he gets his "not satisfying" grade. This isn't a very happy solution, it won't give the desired results. This is one drastic norm that will lead to an addictive and subordinated position of every prosecutor and deputy prosecutor, one assessment -- not satisfactory. The question is, what is this assessment that it doesn't satisfy? Is it because the DA dropped out of prosecution or did he make a proposal to suspend the investigation? Is it because he hasn't solved 200 cases, he's already solved 199 cases? We should have established criteria and principles on the basis of which the assessment can be "unsatisfactory" and find that the legal prosecutor's office's representative was unprofessional in his work. One assessment presents a great danger. This goes to the order, in terms of subordination, that the competent senior authorities, by subordination, for each deputy and prosecutor, will be able to seek resolution because of intricacies. I think this is where it had to go to at least two "not satisfactory". A very, very suspicious thing. There is open space for a public prosecutor to work responsibly, and professionally, and honestly and unsupervised, but if he resents a politician, and especially if he resents a powerful party in power, he is threatened with the danger of being resolved on the basis of impunity. Imagine now, if a public prosecutor represents the indictment against some rich people in Serbia, and these rich people in Serbia have 10-15 and Serbia is their property, when someone would press charges against Miskovic, the prosecutor submits a request for prior collection of data in a pre-crisis procedure, then his files and police report return, he puts a motion to conduct an investigation and proceeds in the investigation, there is an indictment, at that point a warrant arrives – stop with the case. He says - I'm sorry, I can't stop and I won't stop, because I think I'm performing a public prosecutorial function honestly and honestly, nobody can pressure me, either on the side or on the vertical line. If we have such prosecutors, and I think there are also these people I congratulate on such a professional relationship with my profession, he certainly has support. But only if the tycoons interfere, it's over, that man can be released down the water. It will be suggested to someone to say – this should be removed. It's a great danger and it's a shame by the judiciary, damage by the prosecution, by the prosecution in general. I'm saying political parties have to get their hands off the judiciary once. No interference from political parties. Unfortunately, I was telling you that we had the opportunity to get a representative of the political party to the Ministry of Justice and say – please, we have a proposal for our candidates. What candidates? He says, "Here they are." And, a memo from the political party. Is there independence here? There isn't. There are big problems. I strongly object to the question of a simple mistake or failure, when the prosecutor or deputy attorney of the public prosecutor should have carried out an action that was not to be carried out or if the public prosecutor did not carry out the action that was to be carried out, and that action may not be sufficient reason for a man to be resolved only because of one negative assessment. That's not the case with a judge's discharge, but according to the bill, it's exactly what he says – if he gets his grade "it's not satisfactory". So, there is a great danger and let all the prosecutors and deputies of the prosecutor pay attention to this provision. That is why this amendment, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, is very important and should be respected, at least two estimates to be, because with the first assessment, it can be wronged and done irreparable damage to a candidate. Not after grandma, not after uncles. Very interesting and very ticklish and problematic. That's why I don't think this is the happiest solution. Therefore, the purpose of the periodic evaluation is to establish rules for the promotion of public prosecutors and to correct the work of prosecutors and deputies through evaluation. Periodic evaluation of work should only serve as a basis for resolution. Periodically, that's problematic. It could happen that someone gets into this periodical reckoning, which would be his work and he's not working. If he is at that stage right now and if there is such a political climate in our country, that political circumstances have changed... I remember Joseph Broz's letter in '71, you know what was going on, how investigations were being conducted, brought charges, called prosecutors? They're forced to run procedures wherever they're supposed to and where they're not supposed to. This is what must not be allowed, public prosecutors must be independent in their work, just as judges in regular courts, senior and senior appeals. At least that's how international rules and international comparative regulations are prescribed. I repeat, who knows which time, it's not good for a single assessment to be given to the prosecutor's office and for that to be resolved. If we had a full guarantee that the executive authority would not influence this institution, then we could also claim that we have a guarantee that no one has interfered with this resolution. But I'm telling you this isn't good, this isn't good. At least two negative grades, then there's a solution. A situation like this could happen: a man had family problems, a man had health problems, and he couldn't have some shop in the course of running his case to finish, and to immediately submit to that criterion – here is a reason why he didn't do it and that. There is one interesting thing, there is the minister of justice: the justice ministry pays off its jury account, but according to the judgments of the competent courts, compensation for damage caused by the holders of judicial functions. Now let's see how much and to whom damage compensation has been paid over one year, where the sued state of the Republic of Serbia, because citizens have found themselves in a situation to be prosecuted, so the procedure has been suspended or outdated, or some other reason has occurred, he has given up. In this case, the question arises as to how much the State should pay because the procedure was not conducted in accordance with the law and it was not expected that in that case there was a need for such a measure and for the state to be obliged to pay huge damages. That's what Madam Minister knows, how much damage the ministry is paying for the illegal decisions of certain judicial officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8592	The word came out, pointing to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8593	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226 for the information we just received. SPO MPs got news that something was happening in Panchev again that we had a chance to see in the last few days, only this time it's another company. After a protest walk from the factory to the city administration building, employees at Azotari Panchevo asked for the mayor's assistance in connection with the catastrophic situation in which Azotara is located. I just want to use a few minutes to inform both you and the public that the ammonia factory hasn't been working since April of the month, and that they're sending people on a forced vacation from now on. Only information works, there are 1,107 employees in Azotara, a minimum of over a thousand families living off this company. What we can do at least for this pay phone is ask for an urgent review of the purchase contracts and an adequate response from the Privatisation Agency. All I'm going to say is that she's threatened, as I said, by the existence of over a thousand families, that those families don't pay bills, that the electricity is cut, and that winter is literally at the door. What's very interesting is that one of the owners of this company is a company called Universal, which has had a rather privileged relationship over the past few years by the state and by some politicians. I think this kind of approach in privatization and the attitude towards workers must simply be condemned. We MPs represent the interests of citizens and we must say this very clearly, regardless of which party we come from. I'll just remind you that it's a very similar situation in Vrbas, Sombor, where the Invey company uses the global economic crisis as a cover for economic abuse and in the worst possible way to fire workers, some twenty-thirty years working in these factories. If no social agreement is made at Serbia level, social unrest can be expected, and none of us will answer, regardless of whether we are an opposition or a position. I think this is a good opportunity for people with a little more information and a little more jurisdiction to say this and try to prevent it at least at this point when winter is at our door and when many families simply can't eat.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8594	I find that the Rules of Procedure is not hurt. You have misused the right that the Rules of Procedure gives you, so I ask you not to do it anymore. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8595	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for what my colleague said about Azotara and asking for a word from the chairman on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. I request a notice, in accordance with these powers that our Rules of Procedure, who in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Privatisation or the Privatisation Agency, signed a contract with current co-owners on the Azotar system in Panchev. I'm looking for a notice as to how it was possible... Pancians get up and talk every morning, say hello to "good morning, sorrow," and here today "good afternoon, sorrow," not only for pollution, but also for major problems and for what the citizens of Panceva can't take anymore. A large number, thousands and thousands of workers remain in Panchev without a job. Please note, Mr. Chairman, who signed the contract for the sale of Azotara, at which price and what about the new factory that was to be put into operation, and this factory that was to be released to work is "Carbamid"? What's going on? According to information I have, the Azotara factory in the entire system, with all its facilities, has been sold for $13,000,000, so that new co-owners from Ukraine and from our country will demonstrate and sell the new Karbamid factory for 32,000,000 euros. My people, buy the Azotare factory in Panchev, with more power, for $13,000, and disassemble and disarm a new factory, get it on trains and sell in Ukraine for 32,000,000 euros! Guys, what is this? Can these thousands and thousands of families allow their sweat and their torment to be sold out and sold out? This is a very dangerous thing. The state has to get involved here. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to forward this question, if you accept, to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to get an answer to that and to the notice after the sale of the Azotara, who destroyed the Karbamid, how many workers are left without a job and how many months do not receive salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8596	All original contracts on the purchase of social capital are with the secretary of the Privatisation Committee, so you can make an insight, and for the rest of the questions I ask the service to request a reply from the competent ministry. Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic to Article 97. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On the basis of Article 85(5), I'm setting a break of up to 16 hours. We continue with the amendment to Article 102. Thank you. [[After break – 16.05]] We continue the work of the afternoon session where we left off. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Ilic, Aleksandra Jankovic, Milutin Jelic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Miss Alexandra Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8598	Article 102 The draft law on the public prosecutor's office has been regulated by the process of evaluating the work of the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor. The evaluation of the work of the public prosecutor shall be carried out directly by a senior prosecutor, with the opinion of the college directly of the public prosecutor, while the evaluation of the work of the deputy public prosecutor shall be carried out by the public prosecutor, with the opinion of the College of Public Prosecutors. This is all prescribed in point 1 and point 2. The position of the 3rd member states that periodic reports on the review of the work of the public prosecutors are taken into account when assessing the work. However, it is necessary to specify the criteria and indicators of these reports on the work of the public prosecutors who are only only only metricators to make an assessment of the performance of the work of a public prosecutor and of a specific public prosecutor and of the deputy public prosecutor. For this reason, this amendment is also proposed to Article 102(3), which is complemented by the word "received" and "in" after the wording of the paper, taking into account periodic reports on the review of the work of the public prosecutors", which is the whole of Section 3, and after the introduction of the left word "be" between the words "taken" and the letters "in", add the words "in which are specifically recorded and analysed for every public prosecutor, public prosecutor and deputy prosecutor, the number of rejected criminal charges, the number of resignations of the public prosecutor or the deputy prosecutor from prosecution in the course of the investigation, after the completion of the investigation or in the main investigation, in which he was damaged, as a subsidiary prosecutor, successfully continued proceedings, the number of complaints brought against the court, the number of unfounded detentions and the number of wrongful prosecutions. "By adopting this amendment to Article 102(3), The draft public prosecutor's law gives a general formulation the necessary clear criteria as the only correct and proportionate for assessing the performance and legality of a public prosecutor's office in general and, in particular, every public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor. When receiving criminal charges, the public prosecutor or the deputy shall decide whether or not to prosecute the specific criminal application immediately or after certain verifications to resolve the rejection of the criminal application. Such a decision shall be notified by the public prosecutor or by the deputy public prosecutor of the damage, the applicant of a criminal complaint, who, within eight days, can prosecute that criminal complaint himself before the competent court by applying for investigation or direct prosecution. The success of such continued prosecution is an automatic response to the failure and legality of the necessary decision of the public prosecutor or of the deputy public prosecutor on the rejection of criminal charges. This also refers to a request to conduct an investigation, during which, or after the same public prosecutor has completed, he decides to give up prosecution, and the prosecution takes over and continues to be damaged. The successful outcome of this continued procedure speaks of the correct and legal decision of the public prosecutor or of the deputy public prosecutor to resign from prosecution on the basis of which the court takes the decision to suspend the proceedings. On charges brought against the competent court, the defendant and his defender have the right to object. The court's decision to accept the appeal also speaks of the quality and professional assembling of the indictment itself by a public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor. It is certain that it is easy to gain the character of the accused person that no one cares and that property produces many unwanted consequences for that person. About the baseless detention and the consequences of the unfounded, lightly detained person should not spend much of his words because that is all he knows, as well as his family. The same is the case with the conviction of a public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor. And here you can see and reach a conclusion on the quality and legality of such an accused act. It is certain that the up-to-dateness of a public prosecutor, a public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor speaks of their quality and legality in the work, especially if there are cases where this has led to the limitations of criminal prosecution. The government did not accept this amendment because it believes that the way in which the public prosecutor works should not be regulated by law, but by a general act adopted by the State's larger prosecutors, in accordance with the law. If the general act is adopted in accordance with the law, I do not see any reason why there is no room for those evaluation criteria in the law itself. The government continues to call for Article 99(2). The proposal for a law under which the evaluation of the work is carried out on the basis of publicly published, objective and uniform criteria based on applicable and comparable criteria, which determines the State Major Prosecutors by means of a rule on the criteria and criteria for the evaluation of work. If all of this is analysed, it can be seen to be escaped from legal regulation and transferred to sublegal acts, in which general comments and regulations are avoided from concrete labour evaluation criteria that are not variable if they are viewed exclusively from the aspect of professionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8599	Thank you. According to this amendment, MP Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it would be necessary to accept this amendment for the simple reason that it is said that this would largely specify the law and that, possibly, there might be some confusion or a problem that someone didn't understand, that it could be interpreted one way or the other. That this is true shows us these closest events related to the Bojan Krishte affair and to "Nikola Tesla" Airport. What is particularly important, at the cost of putting me in danger of being not the richest radical after this, but the richest Serb, to blow Miskovic, Beka and others away without any problems, I will, for the sake of truth, present some things that the public must hear and that you must know. Why is that? Well, because they're passing on lies; first of all, last night, Mladjan Dinkic and this morning Oliver Dulic. Pretty much, in his words, the thing is done, there's no problem, it's more or less clear, Bojan Kristo, as the best manager, was doing his job, there's nothing to look for. However, Oliver Dulic avoids one thing to say, that he was still in 2005 by the Association of Workers and Pensioners Beolota familiar with the crime that took place in the state lottery at the moment Bojan Kristo came to power. For the sake of time savings, I will read this criminal report, i.e. everything that is related to the events in the Serbian State lottery, as well as to the accuracy of the information and the abundance of facts about the criminal liability of Bojan Krište, G 17 plus and all those who brought Bojan Krište and who are involved in everything he has done and bear responsibility because they knew and did nothing. He says: Serbia's state lottery, located in Svetozar Markovic 40, has been sold in his 13th yet to be sold. Bojan Kristo, general director of the Serbia State lottery, of 23. In '09, he works in the Danube Insurance Department as an advisor to the work contract, hired by Oliver Labus. He was the chairman of the Galenike Management Board. The individual arrival charged 100,000 dinars. He's evicted from Galenika. He made a phone bill of about half a million dinars in a month. He took it when he ran off the laptop that he owed to the repairs. Serbia's state lottery comes without a work book, and therefore without any day of work. First, he comes to Lutri Belgrade, in July 2004, and asks then-director Franco Gerjav for 50,000 euros for what he said was marketing. With him come his assaulters: Stanimir Miljkovic, Petar Šulajic, who later quit, because Sulajic's mother works in the prosecution, so they resented something; the government of Kurir, Mališa Kristodulo, failed a student of ETF and PMF, but a trained resistor, actually employed in listening to employees. Immediately upon arrival and appointment, the renovation of premises in Svetozar Marković 40 begins, the purchase of air conditioning and construction materials, and all for the entry and exit of materials and uninterrupted theft, which is done by the then financial director Ljiljana Simonović, who is otherwise known as the senior director, although 12 years ago she hid $4.5 million and banned from talking about it. Kristo left her as financial director to keep stealing. Serbian Finance Director Jelena Radusin did not want to sign a 30% depreciation of the building, while Ljiljana Simonovic and Franc Žerjav sign everything and even sell business buildings in Svetozar Markovic 40, and transfer money to Serbia's state lottery. Since this company with state and social capital (70% state, by 25%), it was supposed to go to the account of the Republic of Serbia to 75 and 25 to the account of Beolot, and not at the expense of the State lottery of Serbia. It's an interesting contract with Pink Television to extract the lottery, which is hidden. In January 2005, Bojan Kristo comes with a light to the building of the Luttria of Serbia and immediately begins construction works (even to date) although the building is new and dedicated. You remember the contract for the reconstruction of the airport that ended in 2005, but in 2007, Bojan Kristo... That costs about 216,000 euros. There are six contracts between 2004 and 2005, the million amounts paid by "Serbilat" and "Beolot" at the expense of "Serbrn shower" for marketing, although these two houses under the new law do not have the right to throw games at good luck. From the theft of materials, by the entrance-exit system, Bojan Kristo built a building in Radoj Domanovic's 6 and bought an apartment in the International Brigades 7. In January 2005, Kristo usurped funds and all games - Lotto Fund for the week, two drawouts, the Sports Forecasts Fund, the Instant Happiness Fund. The Belgrade lottery had all its funds full, while Serbia's then director Ivo Lubarda spends and raises a loan to buy 200 "simens" lotto machines. The theft has been covered up and Kristo Lubardi gives a severance of 10,000 euros, which with taxes amounts to 1,200,000 dinars, only to remove it. All documents related to the affair are signed by Stanimir Miljkovic. This is all illegal. The lottery payment contract, the sale of tickets, since March 2005 with "Serbia" and "Beolot" has been retroactive since January 2005. A January 2005 contract was made, when Kristo started throwing the lottery, it was annulled, and it did not live. The March 2005 contract aims to melt the capital of these two companies. This is how they are unlawfully brought into a long bankruptcy. The building in Svetozar Markovic was sold without the consent of the Agency for Property of the Republic of Serbia. The same thing is done with the building in Uskoga 4 and 6. Whoever points to illegality gets fired. The director of "Serbia" and "Beolota" Slobodan Bojic, unfortunately a lawyer, who makes all accounts, decisions and thefts, participates in this work with Krist. Slobodan Bojic has done such damage to the lottery that he is matured for his arrest. Bojan Kristo rides exclusively with a Pink airline, you've seen what his accounts are, but later he switched to some much more expensive airline. The start is 12,000 dinars. He goes to London twice a week. She's going to Dubrovnik for coffee. He goes to Dubai whenever he thinks. Individual accounts from Madera are even 100,000 dinars. Look, these are early work, and later he made progress. Later, the accounts are 170, 200,000, etc. He buys 5,000 lotto machines, no tender, and pays "Serbilat" and "Beolot". That's how you melt capital. He buys readers who turn out to be bad. Prints instant lucky "Brown and Treasure to You" in Croatia. Mild Bojana Krisht, treasure G17. They're capable of earning in every way possible. Lucky Junior. I was nervous yesterday, though. I don't know what's wrong with him. Looks like some winds are blowing very close. One series is ten million pieces with a reward fund. The press and two shows without ten million dollars each. The lucky ones are taken care of by Branimir Bozovic and his cocadar, autolimar Miodrag Marinkovic. The keys to the room where the lucky ones are located have only mentioned Miodrag Marinkovic, so it is very easy to win – "mercedes", 50,000 euros, "golf" and apartment in Belgrade. Marinkovic built a castle on a family estate in Kosmaj. Lutrija Serbian Executive Director Branimir Bozovic, otherwise a rough worker for Bojan Krist, has a falsified higher school diploma. All these transactions are for law enforcement and prison. Before Branimir Bozovic, the lucky ones were kept in the vault, which was opened with two keys. Loto leaves are printed in Krnjaca, in the Predraga Markovica sister company. She's got to take some money. There's another sister, who's a marketing director, so let's make this sister some money. Although they are of poor quality, this company is printing and advertising material for G17 plus. That's how she's gonna get back a little favor. The gas stamps are again in charge of autolimar Miodrag Marinkovic. Where are you, Minister, to hear this, although this is dangerous for your condition, I must confess. In Luttria, everyone drives a service car and is available 24 hours a day. After all this stands Branimir Bozovic. A brand new and quality furniture is written off. She's buying out a mistress, but I'm not going to tell her who she is. We have problems like that. There's always a purchase of office furniture that's normally unskilled. All this goes through the company of Stanimir Miljkovic and his brother. They're not only sissies, but they're also there to sort of supply themselves. If anyone shows up more favorably in the tender, everything cancels out. This job is determined by the Director of Legal Service at the Olivera Markovic State lottery, author of secret contracts, otherwise by the woman of Bojan Krishte's trust. It's all at the expense of society. It's her role in legal tendering and procurement. Darko Nikolic, an attribute of Bojana Krište, I want to say media pi-ar, as it would say, is working on a media presentation by Bojan Krist paying journalists through his private firm, lottery money. I personally experienced it: when I gave up materials for Bojan Kriste after a journalist told me that they called from Luttria, that Bojan Kristo called, he somehow blackmailed the owner that they would not advertise and - ate the donkey wolf, the article did not come out, but that's why the data came out in another newspaper. Darko Nikolic, Nikola Tsarevic and the same Hor are also involved... Now, Mr. Krassic, this is what you asked me, now listen. So, Darko Nikolic, Nikola Carevic and the same Hor are involved in setting up the week (see text on the 23rd Voice website). 8. 2005 "The Week for the Chosen". By May 2006, Bojan Kristo was taking weeks and sharing with... You know who hired him first – Oliver Labus; that's why he shared the job with Miroljub Labus. Dinkic and Labus had a fight about this. That's why Lucky's nervous. Kristo later says he shares the money with Dinkic so he doesn't change it. In this business, he is advised by an experienced lottery man, not to say what the epithet is, Branimir Bozovic; he was the director of the Kosovo lottery. In March 2007, the immediate destruction of all paid-out materials from the fortune "scarred and treasured Kristu". Branimir Bozovic was re-engaged in this business. "Serbia" and "Beolot" issued facilities in Belgrade to the Youth Handball Club, which is run by former Luttrija worker Radmila Markovic, the director who staged everything, without the consent of the Agency for Property of the Republic of Serbia. This is where the workers of Beolota who have been declared a technological surplus and registered at the work desk work. When Bojana Krishta is also the daughter of Maja Sobotić, otherwise... Not to read, this doesn't matter. A person like this is responsible for the seals of Serbia's state lottery. (President: Time. I'm done. If you don't want me to answer again, because I have to read this material for Oliver Dulic, to get to know him, and to realize that this thing isn't over, but that we're going to insist on a report of budgetary inspection and UBPOK. Or, since Mr Batić is very familiar with it, I can also let him continue or read from his material. So, Madam President, make your point. Here, there's not much, there's still... You want me to finish? Okay. By April, Franz Gerjav was the director of Beolota. It was declared a technological surplus, registered at the Labour Bureau, paid a 525-euro severance fee per year and sold to it "octavia" (2004) for 2,000 euros, without advertising. He now works for Lutria under a deal on jobs to hand over 650-euro pay facilities. Nothing new, you've seen the situation at Nicole Tesla Airport, and it's even more sophisticated and elaborated to the limits possible. Tomislav Ivkovic, in Serbia's state lottery, the union's president at the "Serbian", also a representative of Beolot's state capital, is in fact working on the bankruptcy of Luttria. He rented the Beolota place on Batcheta Street and paid it only 50 euros, without the consent of the Republika Srpska Property Agency. He's working on jobs that are controlled by workers, who have a fifth and sixth degree of expertise, and you've seen what he's got from professional training. Who's all the questions on Serbia's state lottery payroll? Bojan Kristo employs ropes and extended relatives, starts with his own sister Tamara, and so on. The salaries in Serbia's state lottery are disproportionately high compared to "Serbilat" and "Beolot". The Serbs with the university are expelled from work, and Sanji has provided a cabinet, although he has a third degree of expertise. It selectively gives severances from 150 to 525 euros per year of work experience. The point is to destroy capital with as much cost as possible "Serbilato" and "Beolotot" by paying bills for Serbia's state lottery, which is a gambling director, while these two are the other two lottery agents. Accommodation of the week, top players: Branimir Bozovic, Darko Nikolic, Stanimir Miljkovic and the same Hord, Nikola Carević and Mališa Kristodulo. When it is determined to extract the week, the numbers are drawn on a special, furnished machine and the ballot is typed. This recipe has been taken over by Montenegro's lottery. What the eye sees, the hand carries – Kristo learned this from Branimir Bozovic, who shares the prey with him. Dušanka Milenkovic is working on a raffle, there are double papers and a racket for users is required. Since she's been making constant progress with Bozovic at the firm and also has an official car available 24 hours a day. Anyone else is working on the raffle business; the wife of Autolimar Miodrag Miljkovic, Ljiljana, is head of accounting in Serbia's state lottery. Almost everyone put the kids in to work through a youthful or student cooperative. Marinkovic's two sons, Bozovic's son, Ljiljana Simonovic's daughter, Una and cousin Bojan Krist, all earn about 40,000 euros a month, while those who are working for the same job receive 140 euros, but this is about 2005. If this were true, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind you of the parliamentary issue of Blagica Kostic addressed to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. She asked to be answered what happened to her premium she received from Serbia's state lottery. She hit an A, didn't have a chance to go out for 15 days to pay the premium, and when she showed up to collect the premium, they told her someone had already charged it. This confirms doubts that if the winner does not arrive two or three days after the results are announced, some in the Serbian State lottery have raised that money, and those who received or were paid privately to keep quiet or could not reach their money. Thank you, and I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8601	National MP Snezana Plassic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8602	Now, buddy, where you are, that's what you're going to give the answer to that question, and I want to say where I am. So I count myself on citizens of average intelligence, which I believe we are all here, and that's how we represent our Serbia, but believe me, it's been pretty hard for me to follow up on all this Mr. Todorovic read. Of course, I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure because I don't know on what basis the gentleman has spoken for 20 minutes and I'm asking that this assembly try to restore dignity and return to the respect of the Rules of Procedure. I consider it a harsh violation of the dignity of the congregation to be an expression of all the lies and reading of some written writings written by someone. If you think we can't all, as many as we are here, 250, go out and read the written compositions of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who deserve to hear their word in the Assembly, then you're wrong. But then where are we going to take this Serbia and these citizens? Mr. Todorovic, since he seems so involved in this whole topic, I recommend that he make one Spanish or Latin American series; I believe that in the logic of these series, everything he has read would fit fantastically. No one knows who the mother is, who the brother is to whom the brother and who he works for, but only one thing is known: that all this is the fruit of imagination and complete falsehood. When you listen to it, as you do when you watch these shows, it's perfectly clear to you that it's made-up stuff. As far as the G17 Plus party, our MPs and myself are concerned, I would like to say once again: in the G17 Plus party, like all of us here, we have agreed, and also the Serbian Government, that all cases of abuse in public enterprises are fully examined, to enter the budget inspection, to enter, if necessary, UBPOK and anyone who is guilty of carrying full responsibility for what he did. No one will be protected. If you don't think we can write essays, say, about a series that shows up in Leskovac, and it's called "The Boys of Brazil," or that we can't write essays about other different crimes, believe that we can, but we don't want to spend the valuable time of this assembly, because we think that she can and should do more serious things. So, if this is how you want to deal with the congregation, that's fine, but I'll tell you what I suggest... (President: Time. ) Of course, the gentleman spoke for 20 minutes, and I will limit myself to four minutes. I suggest that when we discuss the Law on selecting Members of the People, we introduce one thing, which is that it cannot be a MP, I don't know what the lawyers are going to say, no one who is criminally convicted. For various jobs in this country, citizens are seeking confirmation that they are convicted. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, let's also make a clear principle for the Serbian Parliament: no one convicted can be a national MP. I'm not convicted. Are there any sentencing MPs here? Don't, please, let those who are convicted of various crimes, some and multiple, address me as a criminal, because I never, nor any of the G17 plus, am I convicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8603	Several MPs reported in the Rules of Procedure, first Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a month ago, DHSS asked the government to shift Bojan Krishte, solely on the basis of written evidence, not written papers, as provided for in the usual procedure. Whoever's trying to amnest Bojan Krishti today, who's trying to replace the thesis justifies his functioning, is an accomplice to Bojana Krishti. In order not to deal with demagogy, and the topic is, by the way, the prosecution, I ask the prosecutors to, for all the work that has been being done here for days, the prosecutor's office urgently responds and determines that it has been done in "Lutrija Serbia", "The Ski resorts of Serbia", at the Belgrade Airport, in NIS and other public enterprises, above all in those to which the shadow has been thrown. Also, I'm asking the D.A. to tell me what's going on with my criminal record since 12 May 1995. I've been to Mr. Radovanovic's office twice. He was a special prosecutor for organized crime back then. He said that's what UBPOK does. The head of UPPOK was Mladen Savior. The whole process regarding money laundering through the HVB Bank in Segedin, through Hayworth Company Limited, from the Marshall Islands, the property of Zoran Mitrovica, was completed in UBPOK, and never reached the prosecution. If he had arrived, some people today would not be in the most important state functions, but would have been somewhere else. Now Mladen Spasic is no longer the head of UBPOK. I'm asking to see what's up with the credible evidence, and I'm going to bring it here tomorrow, about money laundering through the HVB Bank in Segedin, for the sake of the need of a political party in Serbia. I ask, today, where is Bojan Zecevic, who was the head of the election headquarters of Miroljub Labus? Another question: what about my criminal record, with thousands of documents, about the Cypriot money? Slobodan Radovanovic promised me that, as Americans are interested, that they hired an American expert, that the subject was again in the UPPOK. I'm just looking for answers. If there are not enough arguments in those criminal records, they should be rejected, not kept in drawers because someone is in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8605	Mr. Todorovic, as head of the parliamentary group, before the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm amazed that someone has information about any crime that does not amount to it. It's the best proof that our state and state authorities are not working. I trust Mrs. Plassic that it's true what she's saying, but give it to the pay phone, so whoever it was. Here, Mrs. Plassic, I'm reading, as you say, in writing, and I won't give it up. I've been informed by airport workers, who say that government promises that budget inspection will be sent and the UBPOK has nothing, nothing is happening at the airport. But, he says, on the other hand, Deputy Director Velimir Radosavljevic held a meeting attended by Olivera Markovic, Director of Legal Service... Do you remember Olivera Markovic from the Serbian state lottery? He's not going to leave his friends behind, he's going to take them with him. At the meeting, it was decided that the service of physical security should provide for twenty-four-hour supervision of the financial activities, the activities of legal affairs and the activities of the commercial, which they assume are information for the SRS. Mrs. Plassic, since you advised me to start shooting some Spanish series, I have to tell you I'm not qualified for that. I've graduated from the Faculty of Organizational Sciences, I've been doing some heavy road cruises, and I could help you with that, but I'm sure instead of some Spanish series, there's gonna be a series, probably called the Grey House. Remember that show? In this series, many will play a major role, which I am sure is, above all, when Mladjan Dinkic is stripped of the immunity that was established in 2006 in the government, because with an armed gang and a sock on his head, he fell into the National Bank of Yugoslavia at the time. It's just the beginning, they're going to move on, and the director's job is likely to be much simpler because he's going to have a huge number of naturns, so he's going to be able to pick out the really talented ones who are going to picture Serbia's citizens and explain how they stole and destroyed Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8607	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic. Then Zoran Ostojić, then Slobodan Maraš, then Snezana Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8608	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I've called in the Rules of Procedure, but now I'm disabled... Oh, yeah, there's the lady. I'm very glad when there is a dialogue in the Assembly, but I got the impression, based on the interpretation of Article 104, that Mrs Plassic was here, in fact, just asking a question – where am I? Wait, you're laughing, and I know some things. You don't know things. The lady barely joined the MP because they had to clear up before, so the Zdravkovic, etc., was intruding. It doesn't matter. I appreciate that she has an idealistic view of her party and I totally agree with you, just, ma'am, don't get too idealized. So did we, so the guaya bit us. Just so you know. Mr. Batic, you've caught me by heart by who knows which time. Both you and Mr. Todorovic speak against Mladjan Dinkic from here, and when I say those words, he sues me. When I proposed to you as a witness, the trial was stopped immediately. Let me tell you something, they're strict. Criminal charges, this kind of material went for him. He sued me for saying from this pay phone – I ask the question whether Mladjan Dinkic with a black sock broke into the National Bank of Yugoslavia and, secondly, where the money from Cyprus is. He says, I've done a serious injury to his personality, causing him to suffer severe immaterial damage of ten million dinars. There's a man who's hooked up to big numbers. Where did I get 120,000 euros, people? Well, I'm not Bojan Kristo. They're used to it: you're a hundred thousand, I'm a hundred thousand, you're a hundred thousand, I'm a hundred thousand, I'm a hundred thousand, you're a hundred thousand. Guys, that's all there is to you in G17. Please, I'm waiting for that verdict. This morning, I commended Mladjan Dinkic for being honest last night, so he said he regretted that several months before Djindjic's death he didn't talk to him, and that's what it is: Lucky's a little nervous, whether he'll be governor, whether he won't be, and some of them looking for money, so here and there. I conducted an investigation, Mr. Todorovic, was that director of Jukic, Dusko Jukic? And I suggested him as a witness, yes. Because of this criminal report, Mrs Plassic, the government's conclusion is immunity. You must know, for six months, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not submitted a report on how many times immunity has been established to Mladjan Dinkic, whether there are criminal charges, how many criminal charges there have been, what has been done on criminal charges when it comes to Mladjan Dinkic. Mrs. Plassic, you're absolutely uninformed, you come out here and then you make... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It's a bigger problem. Of course, it's a much bigger problem. This could have been quiet. I get it, everything you said was by the system - and where I am. You're not in that story, Mrs. Plassic. Here, to give you the answer, you're not in that story, you don't fit in, you're not like a split of money. It's a small, chosen group. (President: Will you bring the end? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8609	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić, and then the Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8610	The president, a respected minister, co-workers and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, nearly a month ago, the story of Krisht began from this pay phone. It was opened by whether Vladan Batic, then a member of the LDP parliamentary group, whether one of you, does not matter. I think insisting on Krishna and wages among Serbian citizens can cause confusion that this is the biggest problem in the country. No, gentlemen, the system has produced Krishti. Kristo is not the cause, Kristo is the consequence, Kristo is the temperature, the infection is the system, so please let Kristo go. You, Mr. Todorovic, rightly raised the question from 2005, the issue of his management of the lottery, etc. Strangely, you did not mention the fact that the state-owned firm has been converted into a DOO, which can be founded with 500 euros. In 2005, Bojan Kristo could not make the decision, the decision to turn a public enterprise into a DOO could only be made by the Serbian government. Who, Mr. Todorovic, was then in the Serbian government? Not the ones that are in the government now. We from the Liberal Democratic Party insist on breaking up the party state, departisation and depolitisation of public enterprises. We are not interested in whether the Prime Minister Boris Tadic is now called or yesterday's name is Vojislav Kostunica. The government, which translated the public company into DOO to avoid public procurement, was the government of Vojislav Kostunica, Mladjan Dinkic, Ilic, Sarancic. Why DOO? Because DOOs are not subject to public procurement and the Public Procurement Act. So, we're out of salary stories, we're just driving the citizens crazy. Party registers are filled through public enterprises not because of high wages, but because of public procurement. When the government, the one you mentioned, and you don't say whose government it was, decided in 2005, that the State lottery of Serbia would be the DOO, the government decided to be the firm from which the party appointed the director is financed. That's right until today. Let's open up and raise the issue of Krrish, the question of any director at the system level. The system produces. Let's change the system. Gentlemen from the ruling majority, and especially from the DS, will have a very quick opportunity in the Belgrade City Assembly on Wednesday to show their true desire... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up breaking up the party state when it comes to the agenda, and I hope it comes, the shift of five directors of health care institutions. For you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, it will be proof that you want to be clear with this kind of practice of corruption and crime, not the story of Krisht. Kristo is an ulcer, an infection called a system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8611	The word has a People's MP, Marash, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, Mrs Plassic, I really don't know why you needed this. You'll hardly be able to explain, like, a hundred more times, which is why you needed a show like this. Yesterday we listened to your party president on a TV show, and I'm guessing no one, not even from your party, believed what he was saying. He advocates, like you did here earlier, to investigate all abuses and irregularities. I think it's extremely hypocritical. In one thing I have to agree with him, he said it yesterday, and I said it last week – the government is responsible for the robbery, for abuses, for privileges and everything else in public enterprises. Right, the government is responsible. You have a solution for that – not to cut the salaries to the directors of public enterprises; what about what was a few years ago, what about all the possible privileges that exist? Nice, like at the airport, as your president said yesterday, a competition in every public firm and no more party prey. That's a story. Salaries are high. They don't pay the problem, the problem is management supplements, the problem is bonuses and all the other privileges that the directors of public enterprises who, by chance, have found themselves in that place because members of a particular party or work for a party. Then you come here and tell us that you're pushing for all abuses to be questioned. When? In 20 years? What did we hear the government did? A moment ago, Mr. Todorovic told him, and I believe him, because it turns out when it comes to the story about the Airport that he needs to be trusted, that the budgetary inspection has not yet entered. You have a simple solution: give rooms to the State Auditing Institution, give them people, we adopt the Rules of Procedure, so they can go public, so let's see how these managers are successful. The man was successful at the airport because he raised his taxes twice over the year, fired a third of the people and gave himself bonuses. I don't think there's a person in this country who wouldn't have been successful like that. And he reformed it. Last night we had a chance to hear so much hypocrisy and untrue that I think it's really going to get into anals. Then you come here, you're unprovoked, you're giving us a lesson and you're saying, tell everything you know, that would be great. Not only should they apologize, but everyone in this country does their job, so that the competent authorities go to every public enterprise: budget inspection, UPPOK, state audit institution... Just one second... to examine all the abuses and all the machinations that have been done to harm the citizens of this country for several years.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8613	Thank you. There is a word from the MP, Mrs. Snezana Plassic, after which Mr. Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8614	I see that I have caused a heated reaction from many parliamentary groups and it is clear to me that, because many, working together, expect that G17 plus will remain silent and that they will let themselves be just the same and that G17 plus turns out to be what they want to turn out to be – the party that has the greatest claim on money, etc. I'll tell you right away – that's right. We've always dealt with money and economy, and when G17 plus was involved in money and economics in this country, it was very stable on this plan, as you know. I'm not going to repeat what all the G17 plus results are and that G17 plus always, and now, sir, is behind the fight against crime and corruption, both in its ranks and in everything else. Don't call each other now. I'll tell you everything I know. I can't say everything I know, but I'm going to say what I wanted to say for the first time. Don't call me that I won't say that, but don't lecture me either. So your party president isn't the kind of guy who can stand behind what you're saying. You might be. But do you know how my party president and your party president differ? First of all, the president of my party has a number of results that have raised the level of the country's economy. Because he's the best finance minister in the world , because the votes of Serbian citizens were elected as one who contributed most to economic reforms and because it was declared "the most important" in one year in the field of economy. [[growls]] Don't let us talk about this now, you and I, I beg you, and don't let countless affairs be opened, which certainly some people in your party and in my party have on their shoulders. As for those who run the G17 plus, it is certain that it is not and it is certain that this is a difficult attempt to marginalize one man and one party completely. It's just, it's not gonna go with their hands, like it's never gone with their hands before. I'd like to ask you a question. I would also like to ask a parliamentary question: is it true and how did Mr. Todorovic get to the apartment and house in the Street of Princess Zorka (ex Ivan Milutinovic), which the late Marko Ristic promised as a legislation to the city of Belgrade? I just want to ask a parliamentary question if it's true, I'm not saying anything. I'm asking you to come out here and tell us if you're convicted, number one. Under number two, are you covering for other crimes behind parliamentary immunity?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8615	Gentlemen, I will ask you, first of all, that when you report to the Rules of Procedure, you tell which member you advertise. It's some kind of minimum, let me say, parliamentary courtesy. That's the first one. Secondly, I'd really like to ask you to return to the agenda. Mrs. Jankovic has been waiting a long time. Here, you have your word, but please help me get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Plassic, I have remained in debt for some more answers. It is true, I was convicted because the worker of the Beo Transport Society paid one payment through a youth cooperative, and I, as a responsible person, was responsible for it, and there is a completely clean situation. I never hid it, nor did that question arise. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: What year? That was 1989. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: It's obsolete.) ) It doesn't matter, when it comes to politics, there are no outdated acts, and I agree. Now I answer your first question – to set criteria for who can be an MP, who can be a functioner or anything. I totally agree; whether you do it by law or otherwise, and those who meet those criteria can pass, those who do not respond cannot, I am completely in agreement with you. But I'm asking you a question where do you have to ask questions to the opposition MP when you were in the government with people, I don't want to mention names, but you know, who were convicted too, who were in the same government? So, something about you though, Mrs. Plassic, is wrong. We come slowly to everything, don't worry. I kind of feel, and I don't think it's fair that all the dissatisfaction suits are facing the G17. No smaller thieves are the ones from the "yellow company" either. They want to deal with you now because they have a reserve and you are now welcome to be washed in front of the public and to tell Serbian citizens that they want to deal with crime and corruption. As far as the apartment is concerned, Mrs. Plassic, I wish it were mine, it's not a dispute. Unfortunately, it's not mine. That information first came out in 2000 in an election campaign, as false information always comes out in an election campaign. You can just check it out. Among other things, to inform you, I've already received some proceedings for false statements. For what came out of the press, I will also try, in accordance with my rights, with our legislation, to show that it was a lie. So I'm not running away from opening an individual question for whoever you want, but you're asking me if I'm protecting myself with immunity. Mrs Plassic, do you have any MPs on the Administrative Board? (President: Time. ) Are you saying that someone who is currently exercising that function abuses his position, so he will not present to the MPs the fact that there is any criminal record against Dragan Todorovic? No, Mrs. Plassic, no, unfortunately for you. The fact that you used lies and misinformation only comes back to you as a boomerang. However, because of the balance, in connection with what Mladjan Dinkic promised, you and these companies, where the "yellow company" is in power, just to mix the cards, will be more interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8617	He has the word of Vice-President of Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8618	Honored presidents, respected minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, according to the latest data from the plenary session of the group of countries to fight corruption organised by the Council of Europe, which was held in October 2008, Serbia is in 85th place, together with Montenegro, Albania, India, Madagascar, Panama and Senegal. Guys, great. Last year, Serbia was in 79th place, so we improved our position for the whole six places by the corruption index. What does that mean? That means we're still slipping down and we're still going down. What does that mean? That we have serious problems in the public sector, in public enterprises. In the last few weeks, we have been constantly pointing to the fact that there are great abuses and corruptions in public enterprises, and that: Elektroprivreda, NIS, Telekom, railways, airport. We have not received relevant answers, nor have we shown that something is being done to stop these abuses and corruption. I'm talking about those two words -- abuse and corruption, you can call it what you want, the result is that; we have to systematically solve the problem, not just cut the salaries to the directors. Normally, they need to be reduced, because I believe that no one in this country is working so hard that it could really earn these enormous amounts paid to the directors of public enterprises. Therefore, if it is single amounts, these amounts are not earned, and if they are not earned, then they are obtained on some other basis. So, until we have the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget each year to discuss it in the Assembly, until we have a State Auditing Institution that has the premises where it will work, which has the working tables, which will have its people and its rules of procedure, so the procedure under which it will operate, we will not have a solution to the problem of corruption and abuse. How do you solve the situation? We got one answer from the government that would do anything, that some controls would get in. So far, we have no proof that this is really done. If we just focus on that airport, we didn't do anything. The airport must not be released from sight, however, and other public enterprises should be controlled and checked for what and how much it does, how much it takes and how much it gives to its party friends and friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8619	He has the word of Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic, then Mr. Lapčević, Tomislav Ljubenović, and Mr. Maras and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8620	I'm so glad we finally saw who's doing the obstruction here in the Assembly. So the G17 exhibit led to an hour's dyspression, so I don't even know if you remember what was on the agenda. On the agenda is still the draft public prosecutor's office law, Article 102(3). The amendment was submitted by members of New Serbia. Of course, the annual and periodic work reports, as well as the review of public prosecutors' work, determines the effectiveness of the prosecution's work as a whole. It is also necessary to verify in particular the work of the attorney general and the deputy public prosecutor. Of course, there are indicators that are the right criterion for a proper evaluation and evaluation of the work of an individual or an institution. If our goal, and for us from New Serbia, is professionalization, independence and creativity in the work, as well as taking personal responsibility for the actions taken and their outcome, then it is a general principle – in finance, judiciary, prosecution, education, health care and culture. Without any idea that we are discriminating those who are different from us, however far away their lives and choices have been, we in New Serbia have never shown racial, religious, national, psychosexual intolerance, and not because we are tolerated, but because we know that in the nature of the Serbian Christian being there is no aggression and hatred. We have understanding of all sorts of human weaknesses. If little Kristo hadn't been so arrogant and infantile, we might have felt sorry for a young man who had completely lost his compass and gone to the dark side. We would have had, if it weren't for that same incrition and absence of empathy towards our own people who didn't have the money to pay for the heating, phone and utility, and some understanding of Krisht's professional dad, Jr., who yesterday at the "Sunday Impression" justified him by saying that "little of the airport" increased traffic at the airport. Of course it is. Except most employees at that same airport know it's because of people coming to Eurosong. This means Kristo was obliged, and he was morally obliged to give his bonus, or in large part, the winners of the Eurovision to Marija Sheriffovic. Of course, neither he nor the younger one thought about it. But Krishti and Junior on the side. If we are really seeking professionalism and creativity in the work, I think the Ministry of Culture owes us and the citizens of Serbia an explanation for one of their recent decisions. In a recent competition for projects in the field of information, the Ministry of Culture awarded 256,500 dinars to the NGO Quiria Center, which promotes the rights of the homosexual population. On two occasions, 42m dinars for works contributing to timely and objective information and media pluralism were officially distributed. Dusan Radulovic, editor-in-chief of Radio Belgrade, was one of the five equal members of the commission that has been increasing on projects that have arrived at a competition for the allocation of money from the Culture and Information Fund, more specifically for these others – information projects. The projects must have been about 200. The election was made two months ago, and now the decision has become executive, Radulovic explains. We felt that the site "Quiria Center" (you are counting, it is a site that promotes the rights of the homosexual population), as reported in the report, is aimed at expanding co-operation, it can use understanding in the environment that has homophobia. The memo was intonated so that he convinced us that the portal could help people get to know their fellow citizens who live next door, and they have all the rights until they start endangering others. He decided the quality of the project, the appearance of the portal, available to everyone, without the aggression that organizations of these species sometimes have. So, one thing I am modern, I need this company. However, he did not want to reveal the names of his colleagues with whom he shared responsibility for the division of the cultural dinar. In the Ministry of Culture, everything was transparent, the commission worked publicly, so it is known that, apart from Radulovic, money for projects, from those for local media to the "Kvirija" site, otherwise "nisovi" and "joints" representatives, more were distributed by Ivica Milosavljevic, Mirko Miletic, Miroslav Kos and Vera Barisic. Otherwise, "Kvirija" was founded in 2001 as a working group at the Social Democratic Youth SDU, whose goal was the equality of LGBT before the law. That LGBT is a keybinding that involves connecting gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transsexuals, whatever that means. Em equals three thousand euros now. It sounds European to begin with. A little bit more about the "Quirium Centre", only transparency is about: "Kvirija Serbia" web portal is a long-term project "Center Quiria", which is intended for gay, lesbian, bisexual, transsexual and transgender populations from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora, which is very important, which daily informs about gay events in the country and the world, as well as gay-lesbian culture and art. The portal is of a non-profit character, you can imagine, and it promotes the activities of gay-lesbian NGOs, films, printed editions, festivals, cultural events, theatre performances and other events that can be interesting to the gay-lesbian population. The goal of the "Serb Virus" web portal is to inform the gay-lesbian population and increase its visibility. What's interesting is that this is not the first time the "Quirija Serbia" web portal has received financial support from the culture ministry. It was first approved at the end of 2003 in the amount of 100,000 dinars, while the culture minister was Branislav Lecic. The financial funds were never paid because there was a change in government and a new ministry, headed by Dragan Koidadinovic, the contest was annulled. Cultural Minister Bora Djordjevic said in the media afterwards that he had no idea he was giving money for gays. This time, now, the Ministry of Culture has signed a contract with the "Quiria Center" and financial resources have been paid. This is a major step for the gay-lesbian population in Serbia, which for the first time receives financial support from the state they also finance through taxes and contributions, which has so far not done much to respect gay-lesbian rights. With all due respect to the tax bonds of the gay lesbian population, which say there are around 9%, the question remains how will the government and the Ministry of Culture meet the obligations and promises of 91% of the taxpayers of the heterosexually-oriented population? At the time, there was a complaint from LSDV that there was no need to finance the restoration of Hilandar monastery after the fire. At the same time, it was about respecting everyone, including the spelling rights of the gay population. God forbid someone uses that famous word that starts with "p", it has five letters, it ends with "r," it would be chaos. TV shows at the public service have been downloaded because of such words, as they threaten the Constitution with guaranteed gay rights. Not to mention the augmentative type "p" at the end of "the spell", or the euphemism type - backgrounds, work on batteries and the like. Such protection of the human rights of taxpayers is quite fine, but the question is, what are we going to do with the protection of human rights and civil freedoms of paedophiles, zoofils, necrophiles, who also pay taxes neatly? Where is this border, and will the Ministry of Culture give money for projects, for example, cosmonauts who live next door to us, and are discriminated against by those who love people and the opposite sex? Do we really have to make parades of heterosexuals to get the government to remember us? Is it necessary for more than 1.5 million unemployed in Serbia to become gay and to be considered by some ministry? Will the pensioners have to become gay and get more than 10% of the pension increase? Will the heterosexual population, at the expense of their orientation, receive a write-off of debt, a smaller loan war, cheaper drugs? No, and that's right. But it's so right that neither gay orientation is a pass nor a ticket to a privileged world. If we already have to court the EU, we can do it vertically, not on our knees.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8621	This was obviously an amendment debate. My mistake took it wrong. Mr. Lapcevic has a word. Then Mr. Maras, Krasic, Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8622	Dear Chairman, I am reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226, and I'm asking the Prime Minister what will be and when will the State Auditing Institution finally get the space and move into it? More than a month ago, Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, or at least he presents himself in public, said the state audit institution's problem was solved and that it was allocated to the institution, that it can now start working and control all state institutions and that there will be no more problems. It's been more than a month since he made that statement. Of course, the space was not assigned, at least the institution didn't move in. I know with confidence that a minister in the government, a member of that same government, is in that space and does not want to come out of that space. It is obvious that the government itself does not want to provide conditions to the independent institution so that it can be controlled. The government, ministries, public enterprises and institutions should be controlled by an independent institution, but of course they can't until the executive authority gives it adequate conditions for work, equipment and everything that follows it. Yesterday we also heard from the Deputy Prime Minister that at the famous airport there was a fantastic manager who made a huge profit, and on that basis he has the right to give himself a big bonus, and he made a profit by running a heavy public company that has huge competition on the market, where Serbian citizens can choose which airport they will go to when they want to fly and which airport they will land, when he has control from the government itself and the founder of how much taxes they will be at that airport, so he barely fought for those 18 euros and barely fought a sharp competition from zero airports outside Belgrade, so I guess a man can reward himself because he made a profitable enterprise. For these very reasons, I am asking the Prime Minister and the entire government as long as it makes more fun of the State Auditing Institution, the control of public finances, and when it will assign that space, to provide working conditions for these things to come down from the agenda of the Assembly and to return to some normal work. In this way, indirectly or directly, the ruling coalition... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The government itself influences in obstructing the work of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8623	National MP Slobodan Maras, then Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8624	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister... Mrs. Plassic, you're right, there is no resemblance between the president of my party and the president of your party, except for one small one, which is a media hack, or media lynch. It's just, there's a big difference between the president of my party being exposed for five years to the media lynch and the haji. In this he participated, as a creator, Mladjan Dinkic, and now as a boomerang, he returns everything he did in 2003, 2004 and 2005 to others, which is his problem. If you want to play truth, expertise in front of politics, what did it recommend, by expertise, Mr. Milos Milankovic to be the director of Serbia's Elektro Network? That he introduced an intermediary into the gas trade as the director of Serbia in 2006? Is that the expertise you're talking about? You said we're wasting valuable time here when it comes to the work of the National Assembly. Now I'm going to read you something, the Action Plan for harmonising the laws of the Republic of Serbia with EU regulations. Now listen to what laws are necessary and which laws would be introduced here, and you are six or seven months, and in the past and in this government, you have shared the spoils around public enterprises and gombali who will take what public enterprise, and you have not passed these laws in front of the Assembly: the law on changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition; the law on the Control of State Aid; the law on the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Consumers; the Law on Consumer Credits; the Law on the Protection of Product Security; the Law on Food Security; the Law on Food Safety; the Law on Plants; the Law on the Protection of Plants; the Law on Water Protection; the Law on Waters; the Law on Waters; the Law on the Time on the Protection of Traveling of Plants; the Health of Plants; the Law on Health of Plants; the Law on Health of Plants; the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Health of the Health of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Societys of the Societys of the Society; the Society; the Laws of the Laws of the Transport of the Laws of the Transport of the Society of the Society of the Society of the Laws of Laws of the Society of Justice; the Law of the Law of the Society of the Law of the Society of the Society of the Law of the Law of the Laws of the Society of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Society of Law of the Law; the Law; the Law; the Laws of the Laws of the Laws; It's been three minutes. You're absolutely right. I hear someone yelling - that's right, but there's ten more times to answer, so I believe in 30 minutes I'll have all the laws you're supposed to put before the MPs and what's part of the Action Plan for Harmonization...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8625	Mr. Krasic has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8626	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it's very good that such a beautiful dialogue is going on, but it's really bad that only Mrs. Plassic is coming out here now, probably the last person in G17 plus anyone could get mad at on this side. She figured it out. Maybe the point is that Snow is defending G17 plus. But I get the impression that you didn't watch the show last night. I commended Mladjan Dinkic more than once; he first showed a great deal of honesty in his life. However, it was also fear, but also honesty. Let me inform you, he and Boris Tadic made peace on Friday and Saturday. No more problems. You see for yourself, these coalition partners of yours from the "yellow company" don't show up. They count - if you disappear on this subject, they will survive. He won't. There's a little problem, which they won't survive, it's all about them. Crow crows don't take their eyes out. Of course, in the proportion in which they are represented in this coalition, they belong most. You've barely crossed that censorship, or you've gone together now, you've got some internal distribution, you've taken something, but they have the most. So, citizens, all this talk about G17 you immediately multiply by coefficient three, that's really the state of the Democratic Party. They can't be removed. It is only important that you watch the RTS, the Second Channel, follow the meetings of the National Assembly, because there you can hear directly and see what is the reality in Serbia. Don't read the paper. It's where they hang out, mess things up, depends on Gilas and these commercials, etc. Watch the RTS, Second Program. I wish we had a ten-hour transmission, from the ten-hour show Vojislav Seselj and there, Mrs Plassic, you will see that you have made the wrong parallel, the wrong comparison. You know, Mrs Plassic, let me explain to you now: if you take it from the Ural, then you head for the Atlantic, you can see the EU and -- great Serbia. What didn't enter the EU, it's a big Serbia. Of course, I take great risk that the US Embassy representative, the ideologist of the Democratic Party and close associate Boris Tadic, Mr. "let's follow the vision", Srdjan Milivojevic, did not call me, so that he said it was not true, that he did not imagine it, but it is important that this debate goes. As you can see, a little bit of something comes out that citizens see, feel, and can't define it. Mladjan Dinkic said a nice sentence yesterday – I have to seduce the G17 order, all those who waited are not for ideology, but for money, thieves. That's what we've been telling him for years. Listen to us, people. Most primitively, the simplest thing is what the Democratic Party is doing: they vote from Bodrum, they vote from Thessaloniki, they lie in the elections, they cheat on the EU, they cheat on Serbia, they cheat on Serbs, they change the Kuman deal. It's the most primitive, it's the anti-civilization that the Democratic Party is doing. And now we're gonna fight with you? No, the Public Prosecutor's Law is here to drive the rabbit out of the woods.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8627	Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8628	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, it seems this situation is developing so something strange is happening. We have now heard from Mr Krasic that Albania is also potential in large Serbia, since Albania is not an EU member, but it is not a topic. Mrs. Kolundjia, I'm really sorry sometimes that we're wasting our time and that you're suffering some kind of pressure and criticism, which you suffer with the right because you have a coalition partner that you inherited. The point is, I'm only saying this because of the citizens, after Zoran Djindjic, in the first government of Vojislav Kostunica and the feudalisation of the ministries, that's when it was done with the party state. I'm not saying there wasn't before, especially before 2000, but from the moment one party gets by the ministry's verticals, it's actually getting rid of its hands so that these ministries can be the cashier's cashier, not through wages. He is here with the salaries of Krishta and the bonuses of deception, to hide the looting of citizens of Serbia and people's money through public enterprises. So I repeat that if everyone (and by discussion would say that we are all) to break up with such a practice, if the mood of the public at this point is really to break off with such a practice, then we need to make it really break with that practice. I repeat, very quickly in the city's assembly will be discussed and will be on the agenda of the five directors of health institutions in Belgrade. Then, gentlemen of the radicals, if you prefer -- brothers and sisters of the radicals, I will also see your councilmen in the City Assembly, perhaps depending on the quorum. Perhaps the ruling majority will not be able to secure the quorum, because one director or two directors belong to what today is power in the city. Then we will see if, when Prime Minister Boris Tadic says Kristo should leave because he is unreasonable, rude and immoral, but apparently President Tadic says he did not break the law, the principle applies in the city of Belgrade, because the health secretary, Ms. Dragana Jovanovic, is asking for five directors to be removed for these reasons. Not as they try through paid pi-ar ads, agencies and statements that they have allocated 10,000 euros to show that they purposely spent funds or Kristo purposely spent funds, which, Dinkic said, was approved by the government, but by the non-domestic. If at this point anyone who goes to the hospital and sees what misery is in those hospitals, and Mrs Popovic, when it comes to healthcare, Serbia is fourth in the world, according to World Bank research... Then we will see hypocrisy or consistency in the fight against corruption and the president of the Democratic Party, who is also the president of the state, and the president of the party and the Prime Minister, or it is only Kristo; and you often, mentioning so many names, amnesty many others and help cover up the systemic corruption that exists in Serbia, which is produced by the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8629	Mr. Markovic, then Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8630	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these days at the headquarters of the SRS on the Master's Square are arriving huge amounts of evidence about many affairs in Serbia. I promise from this speaker to the citizens who provide us with documents that all affairs will be opened from this assembly pay phone, and we will discuss how Luka Belgrade was sold for 40m euros and that at the time Luke Belgrade was 42.5m euros. So the man bought Luka Belgrade for free and got another two and a half million euros to spend. What's going on with Belgrade Airport, it's just a grain; otherwise, the whole organized crime is on that route, something is Surcin, apparently, suitable for the development of these... So not only Belgrade Airport, but also the Flight Control and the Civil Aviation Directorate are networked; when I read this documentation, you will see the place of each of them in the dance. Civil Aviation Directorate – Authority of State Administration which does not contribute. DCV Director General Milan Mokovic and DCV Deputy Director General Dragan Trčević have salaries of over 7,000 euros, though, in dinar equivalent because we have not yet moved to the euro. Five executives of the DCV sector, Balinovac Zoran, the new secretary-general, the imaginary post, since DCV existed, Jovanovic Predrag, Ležajic Milan, Cizamkov Mirjana, Radosavljevic Zorica, have salaries of over 5,000 euros, in dinar equivalent. All forwards listed have official cars branded "Octavia damage", "Fabi" and used for private purposes, and all car costs go to the expense of the Civil Aviation Directorate. Milan Mokovic, put on a proposal by Nikola Stankova and the Democratic Party of course, on 18 December 2007. Although taking advantage of his vacation, Deputy Director General Dragan Trčević signed, and was paid about 7,000 euros in dinar equivalent, he immediately moved to the Directorate. Aligrudic accused Mokovic of also taking severance from JAT for 10,000 euros. (President: Time, Mr. Markovic. I'm sorry, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8631	Mr. Jovan Nesovic has a word for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8632	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I shall advertise the violation of two members of the Rules of Procedure, of Members 104 and of Article 225. I'll ask you a question. I really think MPs should treat each other with respect. It's immoral and inhumane to call thieves members of G17 plus, which means MPs sitting here. I'm really sure all these people sitting here in front of the G17 plus... And in my personal name, I've always been correct in my life and I've never been a thief. The carrying out of such things is not like the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It really doesn't make sense. Article 225 says MPs have the right to be informed of all the questions needed to perform the function of the MP. We here talk a lot about how state money is spent, how state property is usurped, how positions, or public functions are used. I would like to ask only one question to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Was the apartment on Prote Mateja Street number 47, apartment number 3, owned by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Who's living in that apartment now? Based on what decision is he in that apartment now? Did 1998 pay for the renovation, the fat one, that apartment? Is this renovation paid from the government budget of the Republic of Serbia? This is important to me, I repeat once again, to perform the function of the MP, and I think it will be very interesting for other MPs to get that answer. I think I got some good information on the apartment number. As for these stories about tons of material that comes into a party about some affairs, things that are not allowed, I would just like to give a tip: don't go from the force of these tons of material to sink, as you sink in Vranjska Banja below 5%, and that's dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8633	National MP Simo Vukovic, then Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8634	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I would ask the President of Parliament to ensure the dignified work of this high house, and above all, the work of the MPs of the G17 Plus Club, because we have been exposed for days to the most terrifying insults from this pay phone. This home should return to the path of a representative's home, not through a 1948 court, because here as anyone comes out for a pay phone, he accuses, mudring people, not making sure that there are relevant institutions. I would also remind my colleagues from the DSS, Mr Lapčević, who, as if he didn't remember, had been in the coalition with G17 plus a few months ago, and that at the same airport in Belgrade, the public company, their man and today are sitting on the board of directors, and the board of directors should also be responsible for the business of the public company. LDP colleagues here are calling for us to adopt pro-European laws. Of course G17 plus will be the last party to obstruct parliament and prevent law-making, but once we have to stand in the way of hypocrisy that you often reflect from this pay phone. I remind you that you were a party that requested to be v.d. when forming a coalition in Belgrade. The director of "Belgrade Road" appoints before all directors, and you know on whose proposal – the proposal of the LDP. You first introduced your people to the Apothecary Institute of Belgrade, and at the same time you were talking about public competitions. It's called hypocrisy, gentlemen. It's mentioned here whether G17 plus is afraid we're going to get kicked out of a hole like rats, and that's how we've been listening for days. We, gentlemen, have never been afraid, but if you're trying to drag the G17s plus into that mess, you're not gonna make it. I would also like to say to you, Mr. Batic, that since you usually appear here in prime terms, you are experienced, an old MP, that you have the least credibility to call the president of our party Mr. Dinkic, because you have changed I don't know which party, and on the other hand, we don't even know if you belong to the ruling majority. You can laugh all you want, but you are the person with the least credibility in this House to judge anyone according to his morals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8635	I would ask that we really do a little work on the dignity of the Assembly and the atmosphere here, and that is what we will do best if we return to our work on the amendments. Several other MPs have reported to the Rules of Procedure. The word has Milan Avramović, and then Mr Batic, then Maras, Lapčević, Ostojić, it is the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the public prosecutor's office is on the agenda. We absolutely agree that the agenda should be respected, but the MPs of the opposition, the Serbian Radical Party, must present a considerable number of abuses and thefts on jobs where officials are mostly from the G17 Plus party because the prosecution is not doing its job properly. You're angry now. So, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot, Members of the G17 Plus, be called to the agenda, to the dignity of this assembly, because look only at how much you participate in the work of this assembly and through the bill's proposals, how many amendments you have submitted and how many times you have applied to speak; and in general, let the note be taken from this machine to see how many of you are present, even now, in the hall, especially in the last two weeks. You've had more minutes on some TV shows where you've talked about these laws than in the congregation itself, and you're asking us to stick to dignity and agenda here. Gentlemen of the G17 enterprises, hypocrisy is what the Democratic Party does, letting you into crossfire, that you carry your cross, and that they know what you are, and they are silent and patient. It's called hypocrisy. I'll remind you of a few things. While you were in the coalition with the DSS, a young Democratic Party brought out a flyer in which it listed all your affairs. That flyer shared the city center and, of course, they even admitted it, never denied it. You're sitting with you on that side today, in that bench. I'll just remind you of a few situations. Here's the flyer, I photocopyed it, it says -- corruption in front of everything, 21. 1. In 2007. Not to read these affairs to you, the state of Serbia is generally known, but the prosecution has never given any answer to any of these affairs. As for the material coming into the SRS, here I have a criminal record against Milos Milankovic, your member, the director of the "Electro Network of Serbia", who has abused his position, which has abused the Public Procurement Act and obtained more than 300,000 euros. That criminal charges are now being held by the prosecution in the drawer, gathering dust until the moment this law is passed, until re-election, lustration or anything else that suits the judges and prosecutors. I'm sorry about the overrun. Don't call on morals, immoral people, and don't call on us to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8637	The word is Mr. Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8638	There's a saying that says, who's talking about what, someone about something. So, 11 years as president of the DHSS, I am proud to be the minister of justice in the government of Zoran Djindjic, for I have never changed sides, I am proud never to have been a member of the Communist party, I am happy that I cannot compare myself with Mladjan Dinkic, because it would be a disgrace and a disgrace, an insult and a humiliation to me. What I had to say was I was talking about criminal charges. I mentioned some of them. Why aren't these criminal charges being handled? There is another criminal report – National Savings Bank and Euroaxis Bank. What about the National Savings? What about the robbery of millions of state money? What about allowing tycoons to be enriched through the Euroaxis Bank, from which they took credit to buy the National Savings Bank's shares, buy the shares, sell them ten times as expensive, and without their dinar, earn tens of millions of euros? When's that gonna get someone to sit on the defendant's bench? And I remind you of the property of the National Savings Bank: the property of the payment service or the former SDK. It's a criminal act. What about criminal charges if not Vladan Batic, then Predrag Djordjevic, our businessman from Cyprus, against the same people? It's in the drawer. All I was saying about the money with Cyprus was documented with a room full of written evidence that I received on November 19th 2003 from UN prosecutor Carla del Ponte. What about the Japanese Tobacco affair? What about participation in the compromise of Zoran Djindjic by your president through the same "Japan Tobacco" and through the FIA criminal agency? So we saw it all last night on a show that could be titled "Political Suicide With Premeditation". So, gentlemen of the G17 plus, I suggest something else, instead of going out and saying, we're ashamed of the Bojan Krisht procedure, we want it to be excluded from our party, all of it worked with that same badge that you're going out here with and trying, without any arguments, to demean some of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8639	People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, you have just heard that a number of criminal charges have been filed. It would be interesting just to see if any of them were processed and if there was a procedure on one of these criminal charges. I'm glad Mr. G17 came out for the first time for this assembly pay phone, but I think you've misread, first of all, what we've been saying from the LDP. No one here, not once, has offended either of the representatives of the G17 political party in any way. We tried to give you a path to one exit, which is to allow the State Auditing Institution to do its job. I'm not telling you personally, but the ruling majority (that's the impression anyone tries to think about) is obstructing the functioning of the State Auditing Institution. I'm not saying that since yesterday, it stands on the shoulders of the DSS, when it was run by Kostunica's government, two governments, that story, and when the State Auditing Institution existed as a letter on paper. Choose the directors through the contest. Don't try to defend yourself through an attack. We tried last week to point out that something very bad is going on in public enterprises. Your answer, in terms of what we heard on TV last night and what we're hearing right now, is really not an adequate situation. You need to take responsibility. It is not enough to check, as your president says, members of the boards of directors, so see who is not working in the interests of the party, or the party that set it, more precisely G17. You can't say - well, that man took severance in ski resorts, so at the airport, there's something wrong with it. It could be any citizen of this country just to be a member, apparently, of the G17 and to be in such a position. You need to distance yourself from such people, not to attack the MPs of the opposition and try to create a situation that is extremely inappropriate, that someone here is trying to make a link over the MPs of the G17. On the contrary, you weren't here last week in the O.R., at least the vast majority of you, when it was talked about; no one referred to you any threat, an ugly word or anything, but we asked that in this country, every institution and the competent authority do their job. Your contribution to all of this is not that, as your president or you said last night, you are hypocritically trying to defend yourself, but that, as I said, allow the state institutions to do their job. Then we'll see that you really meant what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8641	National MP Mr. Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8642	Replication to Mr. Vukovic's presentation. Mr. Vukovic, I didn't ask who was on the board of directors of the airport, but I asked why Mr. Kristo made a huge profit in that institution, the only guy in the country who has a monopoly. Well, based on that monopoly, profits have been made based on the fact that certain astronomical fees are on the airport. When did the Aerodome Management Board approve such bonuses for the payment of directors? Never. Is it any member of the board of directors or isn't... Well, you're in power without the DSS for at least six months, if not more, why didn't you replace those people? By the way, the board of directors has not approved any bonuses for the astronomical payments of Bojan Krishte. While I'm here, I have to ask a question to both the government and you: is it true that last year the government approved a multimillion-dollar number as a loan to the airport, which has not been returned? Is it based on the airport's plus? Does this mean, if the airport operates as a monopoly institution and has large fees, that all the income it generates as a monopoly institution should be shared by managers amongst themselves? Or maybe something needs to go back to the budget? These are questions that are right and to which I seek an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8643	Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8644	Presidents, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, member 104, violation of Parliament's dignity. We at the LDP say it's not a Kristo problem, because if the problem were one man in the country, it would be easy to solve. The problem is the system that was designed to produce Krishta. When a bald guy goes off like that, there's a jumble-up. I believe that most in the ruling coalition are very unhappy because it came out because everything would be quiet and packed, or it would be packed when these public enterprises were divided. She's splitting up, like, half her term. You can imagine, dear colleagues and colleagues and viewers watching us, what happens in the second half of the term. In any case, when someone from G17 mentions the word "leaders", it's about as if one of the radicals is talking about love, peace and tolerance. It's not really working. That's my preconceived opinion. I may have made a mistake, but that's how I feel, so don't be angry. Yesterday your party president said the Russians were behind this campaign. As far as I know, you voted, along with the radicals and all those behind us, for that agreement. Yesterday your party president said he had some problem with "Kurra" with that printed thing that's sold on kiosks and not a newspaper. I remember that "Kurir" was his favorite reading in 2003, when he crashed. It's hypocrisy. Just that, for the sake of the viewers, not because of you, I respond to that insinuation about the LDP's involvement in the city government. It was not us, Mr. Vukovic, who asked to elect the deputy director of "Belgrade Roads", but rather the city government, or mayor, asked for the immediate selection of "Belgrade Roads", "Electrana" and "GSP", due to winter and preparation for the coming winter. Other companies could have waited. That's what Mr. Gilas was looking for. Secondly, when it comes to the Apothecary Institute, the chairman of the Management Board, which was proposed by the LDP, which is not from the LDP, as is not from the LDP, he was elected when 16 other board presidents were elected. You will have the opportunity to show at the next session of the Belgrade City Assembly how much, along with your coalition partners with whom you went on the list, the Democratic Party, really committed to breaking the party state, breaking the monopoly. To be fair, the fact that we've been looking for the Apothecary Institute, that we have influence over a non-party personality, is because there's so much corruption and crime around medicine and health that the World Health Organization and the World Bank say we're the fourth in the world. So we'll get the drugs. We will also get to who holds Jaksic and Ivanovic, who operated on 16,000 Serbs from northern Mitrovica. It is not only Kostunica, Samardzic and those who are politically present, but one who is in charge and competent to appoint directors of health institutions. It seems to me that it is one of your parties who is in the seventh term and is already preparing a law on Mr Milosavljevic's life ministry. We'll get to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8645	Mrs. Judita Popovic, then Mr. Rangelovic and Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8646	The Honorable President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, is on the agenda of the draft public prosecutor's office law in particular. Therefore, it is our obligation, as Parliament, to discuss the amendments set out in order to finally decide whether this law will be passed or not. That's just fine. But from the situation that is currently in this congregation and the situation that has been going on over the past week, it's as if we in the Assembly didn't have a Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. However, I would remind you and underline that we have transitional and final provisions that just point out that we have the Prosecution Act, which was passed back in 2001, with amendments by 2006. That means that prosecutors, republican, districtal and all the other competent prosecutors, can handle all the criminal charges we've been hearing about today. Prosecutors don't work unless it's on the Assembly's agenda, and it's extraordinary. For days, we have been discussing something that should be done by prosecutors and other competent authorities and competent institutions. Therefore, it all proves that it is not a black hole in parliament, because parliament is discussing the burning problems that are coming up and we need to stop them and look for a way to solve these problems. It's the government that needs to solve, her institutions, her organs. Where's the M.O.P.? Where are the prosecutors in charge of the Justice Department? Where are the budgetary and other inspectors? Nobody works here. What, then, is the adoption of these laws that we're talking about, that they have to be passed, that this is the way to Europe? Unfortunately, we mentioned that we have corruption at a very high level. So what's this about? Why talk about laws? Why talk about something that's pretty imaginary, and we're obviously not going to apply it either, because we're not applying a law that's currently in force? It is the government that needs to solve problems, and parliament points to them. Parliament isn't a black hole. It doesn't obstruct parliament. We only do what's in the description of our jobs. It would be good for everyone else to do what they should do under the laws that are in force.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8647	National MP Miljan Rangelovic, then Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8648	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must agree with my predecessor and the honourable Vice President of the Assembly that we must return to the agenda, but for such a thing it is necessary for each of us to respect at least the minimum of dignity. I have to answer a few incorrect sentences that are spoken here. I want to give the exact information. I'm going back because it's the freshest. If the gentleman, an esteemed LDP colleague, mentions "Kurir", then be precise and let him say that the president of the G17 party is on the cover for more than 20 days a month, as if he were the worst man in the world. We all know that, at the very least, that's not correct. For a proper description of such facts, there are far more difficult words, but it is simply not worthy to say such things from this place. If we're talking about the Russians, why didn't you say his whole sentence? Why didn't you say exactly what he said? He said they told him he heard it had something to do with them, but he didn't believe it had anything to do with them. You just said it had something to do with them. The man said it had nothing to do with them. Please, that's not honesty. There's a much harder word for it, but be honest and tell the truth. On the other hand, we have Mr. Batic who, somehow, always shows up exactly when they're prime terms. I must remind Mr Batic that he is at the level of a statistical error. I have to remind Mr. Batic that he can go out on his own and then he'd have the right to appear here in prime time. I would like to remind you that Mr Batic, now an independent MP, will see how he will vote for his vice president at the coffee table, has found something, that's why. Now to answer to my distinguished colleague from the Serbian Radical Party – yes, we are talking about dignity; we are talking about dignity, we will always defend him here, and you are not honest, you are simply not honest. You're not ashamed that we've been here for hours, days, weeks ago driving Serbia crazy. Well, you're about 6% now. Because of 6% of voters, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is transferring, because of 6% of voters, you drive 94% of voters crazy. Because of all those documents... The man was right a moment ago when he said that you were sinking; you have sunk in Vronjak Banja, please, you have drowned in the Book. As things stand, if you continue like this, you will sink everywhere. I'm not saying it's supposed to be a case, but you're just not correct and you have to change that. You're saying we don't work. I now have to tell you how much you work. You're talking about amendments. You yourself know how many amendments you write to write them. You yourself know how much your amendments don't make sense at all, it doesn't even match the member it refers to, let alone the law or the legal order. You send it, you give it, you write it, and then you're not on the Legislative Committee, none of your members appear there. I'm a member there. You're not there, and then you're not even here to vote for those amendments. Well, you don't vote for your own amendments. You say it's a standard of work. No, it's a ruse of the people, Serbia, it's a ruse and a slowdown of our country. We have our goal... (President: Time. We will at all costs introduce Serbia into the EU, you can be sure of that, and we will defend dignity at all costs. You can't be silenced anymore, because you're dishonest people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8649	National MP Simo Vukovic, then Gordana Pop-Lazic, then Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8650	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am re-advertising the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. So, this indictee process continues here, and we are not going to agree that this hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is becoming a judicial institution. So what I have to say to Mr. Batic is that at certain polling stations in Obrenovac, there were more invalid ballots than there are times when the Democratic Party, or whatever it is called, won. What can be interesting in the spirit of today's debate, his intensities to investigations into G 17 plus and the president of our party, Mr Dinkic... It may be interesting your business relationship with the birth father of the "pancir of the affair", Milet Dragic. Gentlemen of the LDP, it is very interesting that a son of the former director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, who left the institution with 20 billion debts, appears in health talks in Belgrade. So much for these things that you're concerned about how the Apothecary Institute in Belgrade will function. I must once again, for the truth's sake, repeat that in August, for the winter season, you have asked that in "Belgrade Road" you have a V.D. The director, and you've talked to all the bells about public competitions, which, of course, the G17 Plus people have accepted because we've long advocated such an idea. What's being put here as a subject, which is in favor of what I'm advertised to hurt Article 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, is that the secretary of health at the city administration accused, I say, of accusing the directors of five institutions in the media. I don't know if these people are guilty; according to some information, the budget inspection hasn't identified any of the irregularities in the work of those directors. So what are we gonna do in front of the City Hall session? Are we gonna replace people because you said it was their fault? If they are guilty, G 17 plus will be the first to do so, as we advocate that in all public enterprises, including Belgrade Airport, business, not only the work of directors, but the board of directors. To remind my DSS colleagues that the financial-business plan also determines the possibility of giving bonuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8651	Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word, then Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I kind of need that, on behalf of the SRS, gentlemen of G 17 plus say it's hard to defend indefensible, but that you're just a random topic here in the Assembly today, and phenomena that are related to some officials or members of G 17 plus. Tomorrow, it will be someone else from the ruling coalition, because since 2000, all governments have had numerous affairs and, strangely enough, all these affairs have somehow surfaced at a time when something big was to happen with the state of Serbia; it was usually related either to the disintegration of the state community or to Kosovo and Metohija. Everything seems to me like it's going to be now. There are certainly many accumulated problems in society, and it makes the Assembly look like this and that there are tensions here and we're talking about different topics. But believe me, you may not be aware of it yourself, neither are you. The main culprit is the one who gives you conditions as well as how you work. Where are they? They're in Brussels. So they also impose on you the laws by which you're going to work, and you learned from them both corruption and crime, because the greatest corruption and crime is right in Brussels. If you take a closer look at what is happening in the countries of Southeast Europe that have recently entered the EU, you will see and you will be able to identify many phenomena in our society. If you are interested, say, in privatising the shipyard or privatising the airport or privatising the airline, just see how it was done in Poland, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and you will understand. Everywhere, believe me, the same way. Here, for example, just as the privatisation of Bulgaria's air carrier "Balkan" was made, since it had a lot to do with ours: it went into bankruptcy after privatisation, so the state founded a new company "Bulgaria air" in 2002; this company has 29 planes, all of which were taken on licking, so they are not the owners of any, but there is a privatisation, which has no end or economic justification, experts say, continues, so the Bulgarian government decided to sell 100 percent of Bulgaria air in late 2004. The chaos in JAT as if the start of a process already moved away in Bulgarian air traffic, etc. I don't have time to give you these examples, but believe me, I'll be persistent, when there's a budget on the agenda, to tell you about it, to give you these examples and to recognize all these phenomena in society. So it's not our fault this way that we're arguing, that we need to bring out all these negative phenomena. You are collateral damage to EU policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8653	Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8654	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, unfortunately, of the two members of the G 17 Plus parliamentary group who addressed from this pay phone only Mr. Rangelovic remained, so I will take the opportunity to say something to him. I do not dispute that the G17 is for European integration, I do not dispute that you want laws to be adopted here that will bring us closer to European integration, but I must remind you, in 2007, when you were in the government with Kostunica, Mr Djelic, then Deputy Prime Minister, received a letter from the European Commission saying that European integration, and hence foreign investment and everything else, cannot come to Serbia. I can't come, why? Because of the high degree of corruption in state authorities and the existence of monopoly. Your behaviour, I don't mean specifically yours, but the behavior of the entire ruling coalition, in the extreme line, most likely compromises the idea of European integration. In this way, you give MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, or one of them, the reason that every time I make fun of it here, when I have to say so, with the word "European". I think it's much more important that you try to make every possible contribution to everything we want, and that's the way to European integration, which means more than 50 laws waiting for the government to deliver them to the Assembly. There's only a couple in the congregation procedure. What's going on? As with the law on money laundering, he withdraws from the assembly procedure. So we expect you, as MPs, to draw attention to those who are in the executive power that it is necessary that these laws arrive before the MPs as soon as possible and that we can discuss them. We of the LDP have proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure that would lead to all the laws relating to European integration coming through an urgent and accelerated procedure. The way you behave, especially when it comes to public enterprises (I am sorry, but you have been in these public enterprises for years), compromises the idea of European integration, undermining, for corruption and for the existence of monopoly. I didn't make that up, it's in a letter sent by the European Commission last year to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic. I think we can agree that this story can last for days. I won't answer on this subject anymore, but I'm also asking you to take care of yourself once you're out for the assembly pay phone, can you defend what you're talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8655	Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8656	There's a folk proverb that says that mother didn't curse her son because he gambles, but because she's trying to take it out. It's best for you not to say anything, if you haven't already had the strength to say: we're ashamed of the actions of Bojan Krishte and all the other thieves, it doesn't matter what they're called, from public enterprises. That's the only answer. No, you're trying to disqualify other people. I'm proud of Milan St. Protic, deputy president of the DHSS, nominated ambassador to Switzerland. The man who graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, mastered and doctored at Santa Barbara, taught at Oxford, Cambridge, Sorbonne deserves to represent the country abroad. It is mentioned that I have business connections with Milet Dragic. I have no business connections, I am in one procedure, the same one where you once declared your prominent member, Prvoslav Davinic, a participant in the robbery of the century, and he was released for all, participated as a lawyer, defender of Milet Dragic. I don't know what's immoral and dishonest about it. Every day I go to the courts and earn my money, I don't have any benefits or anything. I don't take from the pockets of taxpayers in this country. Dear gentlemen, we may be from the DHSS at the level of a statistical error, but we're not thieves. Think of the thieves in your ranks, because whatever public enterprise is mentioned, the lottery, the airport, the ski resorts, "Serbiagas"... So, whose members are Kristo, Radosavljevic, Kalicanin, Milankovic, whose was Bojan Zecevic? You're saying I'm going to the elections alone, or that the Democratic Party of Serbia is going alone. I couldn't wait for the Democratic Party of Serbia to go alone and go alone, G17. You go to the election yourself. Your family won't vote for you anymore. Let's be realistic. So you didn't go to the election yourself. Everything done in Obrenovac was done while the Democratic Party of Serbia, along with friends from the Democratic Party, had power. In the end, I wouldn't be proud of the Minister's title. I'll remind the MPs, it's in Euromoney magazine. Who was the promoter? Vienna Stock Exchange. Who did it on behalf of the Vienna Stock Exchange? Martin Schlaff. Whose "Grand Casino" is at the Hotel "Yugoslavia"? Who gave the license to the Grand Casino? The Grand Casino license, owned by Martin Schlaff, was given by no one but Bojan Kristo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8657	Mrs. Snow White Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8658	Dear Mr. Batic, as far as the election is concerned, when was the last time you went to the polls on your own? The G 17 Plus party went to the 2003 and 2007 elections on its own and, as you know, this is the third term in which we have MPs in the Assembly. I think it is clear to all Serbian citizens that the situation in our country has been very specific and that is the only reason why we went to the elections together for the first time on the "For European Serbia" list, not on our own. I think it is clear to everyone in Serbia why this was very important at the time. You weren't on that list, you know why? Because no one wanted you on that list, Mr. Batic. Good, in time you changed sides, you got an ambassador, you broke up and you came to the right side. It's good to be on the right side. As for G 17 plus, you're not welcome, but we're not the only ones who decide in this case. As far as honesty is concerned, I'm not going to use that second term that you used, I think it's an ugly term, and I'm teaching my kids not to talk like that, as far as those who are under suspicion or accused of various crimes, what about your vice president, what about the "Afer Index", what about... I think it was Galenika? You remember, Mr. Batic, I'm sure that cute joke that you're holding the board in Central Prison. Half your party was there. So, don't honor G 17 plus honesty, don't honor the results of the election, in any case, because we weren't just far above the censors every time we went to the polls and now in places where we went on our own... Here, I'll tell you about my town of Leskovac: we weren't on the common list, we had independent results - 8%; at Loznica 24%, where our colleague Mira is. So where we went out alone, we had great results. Anyway, these are results that can't be compared to yours, because you just don't have results. You know what I find very interesting about you, Mr. Batic? The way you are obsessed with the personality and work of Mladjan Dinkic. I understand that a man is charismatic, and I know that many people really think that he is a man who is powerfully implementing his ideas into action and always does it with great success, but you are completely obsessed with him, you come here every day and talk only about Mladjan Dinkic. That's nice to me, but you should think of it as your big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8659	More Mr. Batic, please let's move on to the amendments after that. Would you like some, Mr. Stable? And Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8660	You know what, Mrs. Plavsic, there is a dragon in Jovanovic – honesty cannot be bought, because it does not sell honestly, and you would unfairly sell it, but it is not there. Don't, please, just you and your party about honesty. That looks like a humorous show. So it is true that even I was arrested, precisely by Mr Dinkic, because he was bothered by my constant mention of abuse around the National Savings Bank. All the things I've been saying I've turned into criminal charges, criminal charges so far, and after three years, for the Cypriot money, the National Savings Bank, the money laundering for your party's needs through the HVB bank account... There are all statements given to UBPOK, the owner of the Hipo Hayworth Company from the Marshall Islands, Zoran Mitrovica, admitted everything and confirmed it. There are excerpts. Just because you're in power it's not processed. Why wasn't it rejected? Criminal charges are either processed or rejected, so let's see who's right. No, a third way is chosen, to stand in a drawer, because arguments and evidence cannot be rejected, and the authorities cannot process it. Let's talk about future times. When you're already referring to statistics, the results, look at the latest research they're assessing to you. After these affairs you won't even be at the level of a statistical error. I'm only answering that because I only mentioned the question when I first came out of this booth because today's debate is the public prosecutor's law, what about criminal charges. I asked the prosecution to establish everything in all public enterprises, not because I am obsessed with the character and the work of Mladjan Dinkic. Believe me, I don't have any inspiration for Dinkic. On the contrary, I have something else, which I'm not going to say now because of my decency.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8661	Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8662	President, Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, Vladan Batic inspired me with these folk sayings, so I remembered one thing: "Whoever mixes with pots, pigs eat it." I risk it happening to me, but I'm doing it for the people who are watching us. I'm sorry, Mrs. Kolundjia is gone... Yesterday I listened very carefully to President G17 plus. He said at one point, and that's why I'm shocked that no one is answering from this side, that behind this "cristo affair" stands someone from Boris Tadic's cabinet, the president of the state, who told some newspaper that Kristo must leave, that the president thinks Kristo has to leave. Since he is friends with Boris Tadic, he knows that is not what Boris Tadic thinks, which is why I conclude that Boris Tadic did not really mean Krist, but that someone behind the back, from the cabinet, is working against Boris Tadic and that someone is working for the Russians. Yes, Mr. Vukovic, Mr. Dinkic said -- they tell me the Russians are behind this. You're right about that. But he did not say, and I know that they do not stand, but he said, "I do not know if they stand." That's one for the viewers. Two, no one negotiated power in Belgrade except the president of the GOLDP, Dejan Randzic. Under three, the president or head of a council group in Belgrade, yours, is the deputy director of the airport. We of the LDP and all of us on this side can say - we are in favour of reviewing the legality of the work at the airport, and you cannot say that you are in favour, you are the government, you are the government, you need to do it. Finally, the Belgrade City Assembly is coming, it is a test for the city's coalition. It is not true that five directors of Belgrade's health institutions have been accused of unintended spending on funds. Their shift is wanted for non-domestic behaviour, for the same reason Boris Tadic or someone from Boris Tadic's cabinet, who works or doesn't work for the Russians, said Kristo must leave. It's immoral, it's rude. He didn't say it was against the law, because, my God, as Dinkic says, the government has decided that he can share such bonuses and everything is clean, by law, just not moral. For the same reason the directors of these health institutions should leave because they bought furniture... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... of a million, a million and a half euros in the health situation. From whom they were shopping, whether it has anything to do with health care, whether it has a company, etc., about it then, it's for Dacic, it's not for our health secretary, not ours, the one we suggested, which is not a member of the LDP, which may be a member of some of your parties, but it's because of the women's work and that's why LDP stands behind it. We'll see if you stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8663	Mr. Andric has a word. My expression is, Mr. Andric, in accordance with what I ask you, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8664	It's your right, Madam President, to have the look on your face that you think is most appropriate, and I can think of it as inappropriate, which I think. Articles 104, 225 and 226. It's about the directors of five health homes. I'm sorry, I wasn't in the O.R., they convinced me what you said. There's one thing I have to say, very serious. Like this: it was scheduled for a session of the City Assembly for Thursday. This session has been moved. Those sessions won't be on Thursday. What we've heard, it's that the G17 won't vote for the shift of these five directors. Let me introduce the MPs to what actually happened. Five directors of these facilities, five homes of health, requested that tender procedures be lifted and conditions be obtained to buy so-called. Medical furniture by the so-called an emergency procedure. This means that a tender has been avoided and that it has been purchased through a direct contract, i.e. three offers, of which the most favourable is taken. Medical furniture is what these directors of the health care homes assure us of, and your budget inspection, medical civvies, computer medical desk, medical drawer. It's, according to the interpretation of these directors, medical furniture. Medical ficus, thank you. According to our interpretation and the interpretation of the health secretary, it's not medical furniture, it's crime and abuse. Your director said that the furniture, for the sake of urgency, had to pay four times as much. Four times as expensive! None of these health homes have any X-rays, no medical equipment they need, but they have Italian furniture. Do you know why they have Italian furniture, which is an official explanation? Because Serbia is on its way to European integration, and since Italy is in Europe, then the furniture must be from Italy. That's the official explanation of those directors, and you dare to come out here and defend them because the budget inspection found nothing. Believe me, the next session of the City Assembly is a key session for this coalition. Either there won't be those directors or there won't be a coalition in Belgrade. It's very simple. Thank you. In the election, if you stand up like yourself, young sir... Come out and say it here, what's the problem? What did you say? Why don't you tell me now, I don't understand? (President: Time. Please don't leave the scene, and you bring the end. ) The courage of this silent majority in parliament has been proven in the case of Bojan Kristi... (President: Okay, will you, please, bring the end? Finish your sentence. Go on, then. Keep going for three more minutes. Thank you. The next question is, once we've cleared up with the directors, or let's not get straight, the choice is your... Under the current agreement, since there's a lot of manipulation in the media, and we need to clarify that... The director of the Palilu House of Health took the pi-ar agency (or took it), whether you know it, and now he's struggling with certain statements and manipulations in the media. Well done. Every fight is welcome. Things will change, or you have to find your old coalition partners to do it with. What we know today and what is the agreement and must be said publicly is that the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the shift and the SPS will vote in favour of the removal of those directors. Come out and confirm, you young sir, who are so loud from the bench. The only group left is G17 again. You now have an understanding for those directors. This Kristo wasn't socially intelligent, we figured that out yesterday in "The Imprint of the Week." Otherwise, he's great, he's just not socially intelligent, because he wanted to give himself a bonus in this crisis. Otherwise, he's great -- half fired, he's raised taxes, he's raised profits, he's a really great manager. When this is over, we'll go to the lottery. When we're done with Lutri, we're going to go to the city's budget inspection to see how she found out the law wasn't broken, and if it wasn't formally broken if the medical furniture was a Chiviluk, if it was a drawer, if it was a computer table, is it medical furniture? When we find out it's not, then we'll see why it's Italian. Gentlemen, you have a very clear choice: since you are brave and at the stroke of all the media, as your president said yesterday, do not vote, overthrow the city's power at the session of the City Assembly, knock it down, so let's go to the elections. But to go to the election not under Boris Tadic's coat, but to go to the election as G17 plus Bojan Kristo, the House of Health of Palilula, so you go to the elections and we end this story once and for all. You've destroyed the government three times, you've entered this parliament twice, not by your own merit, and you've still got the nerve to defend the worst scum involved in the conduct of government in this country, the worst scum, which, instead of the X-rays, buys civilians and, at the time of the worst crisis, pays itself a bonus of 10,000 euros. (President: Please keep an eye on the terms. I stand by those terms, and it is your right to give me a warning. Yeah, they're scum to me. Go out and defend them, and at the session of the City Assembly, take this position you had here, disable their shift, and go to elections as individual parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8665	He has the word National MP Milan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8666	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People, I really don't want to deem it any longer and take time and life for the citizens of Serbia. Just, you LDP guys have all that stuff, go straight to the police, what are you looking for, what are you doing here tonight? Go to the police. I don't know what you're playing, are you acting like an investigative authority, private detective? Well, go straight to the police and do it there. As for what's bothering you in Belgrade, I'm not from Belgrade, Mr. Andric, you've been a little wrong, I'm from the Book. You've been telling me all this for nothing. Mr. Ostović, I'm not Mr. Vukovic. You're wrong a little bit and don't worry about who's talking, you're not focused, I don't know why, I don't know what you're doing. Please, you have that town hall in a few days, so talk about it there. Let's go back to the agenda here, let's do this. Madam President, please, if you don't give Mr. Andric a heads-up on "slam" and "slam" it's not in line with the dignity of any representative home of any state, I will leave this place right out of the O.R. because I don't want to participate in anything like this. Please, either warn him or we'll talk in the morning, because I don't want to sit here and listen to words like this in the representative body of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8667	I have warned and please, gentlemen of the Parliament, use adequate terms. It's not right to use terms that offend our fellow politicians. Everyone should be held accountable for everything that doesn't comply with the law, right? He has the word Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8668	You know what, first of all, I answer on that basis. First of all, it's an incredible structure that the word "slam" is something that offends dignity, and when someone steals money in such a way, it's not an insult. If he does it politely and takes money from everyone and puts it in his pocket and who knows whose, that's fine. If we say it's scum or scum, then we're rude. I beg you, first warn them not to do so. It's a greater violation of this congregation's dignity when someone defends them than when we call it, currently upset. I agree that the City Assembly is the place where this will be discussed, as well as the Council of Belgrade, where the agenda will be established. We're going to have these attitudes that we had here, the G17 is going to have their attitudes that they've expressed here, we just haven't heard the Democratic Party's views. The reason I volunteered for the replica is because I didn't speak to this gentleman (I'm sorry he got out of the gym) and I don't understand why he thought I was talking to him. Since he's not from Belgrade, here's to explain: if I watched him, I watched him because he's from G17 plus, and he was defending them, and they're coming out and defending them in our society. If he doesn't feel responsible for it, I think that's his problem. By feeling called for the words I use, and about the actions nothing... About the works Mladjan Dinkic will do himself in "The impression of the week" to explain how everything is fine, the only mistake that Kristo has is that social intelligence which is his weaker side, otherwise he's a wonderful guy. You know what? It is an insult to all Serbian citizens. I stand by these words that I have said and take responsibility, Madam President, it is up to you to do what you think should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8669	He has the word Mr. Ostojic. I didn't say a warning, I just can, and the next time, there will be other measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8670	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I just called to see if you'll give a warning. It's a good thing you didn't give a warning because, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you missed several times in this assembly to give a warning when this speaker was spoken for and heard that Zoran Djindjic was the mafia prime minister. It wasn't for a warning at the time, so I don't think "send" would be a warning unless you think this is much worse than the first one. As for hypocrisy (e.g., the gentleman came out, offended himself), when we voted whether Mrs. President broke the Rules of Procedure by not giving a warning to the MP who said Zoran Djindjic was the mob president, this gentleman who came out and everyone on this side voted not to break the Rules of Procedure. So much for scum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8671	The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to Article 104. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Djeric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8672	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Madam Chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, respected citizens of Serbia, with an amendment that I submitted to Article 104(1), I ask for the word "frequency" to be added to the word "unjustified". To make it clear to you, that is, that the public of Serbia is more clearly referring to the disciplinary offences of the public prosecutor. It provides for a public prosecutor, i.e. a deputy public prosecutor, to commit a disciplinary offence if, among other things, he often misses or is late for scheduled searches, hearings and other procedural actions in the cases assigned to him. I think it was mandatory to add the word "unjustified" here, because from what we heard today, we see that prosecutors will be the most recent business branch in Serbia, that they have a repromary bar for one year's "production". The most valuable, precise, responsible prosecutors will be extremely busy, and time is not a stretching category. Every DA's day, including us, has only 24 hours. Of course they're going to have to overlap processes, that they're going to have to get into some other terms. That is why it is necessary for the prosecutor to move his term at times, that is, to take from another subject, but that must be justified. So here it had to stand certainly that only the unwarranted absences of the prosecutor could be disciplined. The prosecutor, above all, must be a public institution in Serbia because he is a pillar of the judicial system. We are all aware of the responsibilities that prosecutors bear, which they assume, especially at a time like this. We took note of the fact that colleague Judita Popovic here made that in less than a year we moved from 79th to 85th in the rating list of corrupt countries. I think we need to have an over-the-counter task that the arrow on that rating list has to go in the other direction. So we have to climb into a better society and among those countries that have much less corruption. If in this way, and yet I say it's unconstitutional, we discipline the prosecutors, if we force them to fear in the bones, if they're scared of some of their disciplinary offenses and they can't do their job independently, certainly, on our own, then we'll be on this trading list of corrupt countries to climb even more. Let's not let the D.A.'s office be the most employed business branch here. Until just a month ago, we were promised that this major global economic crisis, before which many serious economies and many serious states panicked, would be much more stable than we have, which did not have this kind of experience which, unfortunately, Serbia had, and were afraid to stop and begin to question their resources and their economy... It's been announced to us that it's none of our business, my God, it's gonna get around us. But now it's already announced, even shyly, that the sun is going through the sale of our foreign exchange reserves, which we still don't know who they're selling on a daily basis, what course they're selling, but it's still going to be known one day; if not before, then the day the governor exhausts them. So, in order for this global crisis to be no excuse for irresponsible, unfair, incompetent, and party loyal, for the downfall that is happening, we have to let prosecutors deal with those who have led us to this situation to the greatest extent and this crisis, which is inevitable, have made it far more difficult than it is. Prosecutors must react at any moment and be willing and brave to do so, in order not to be attributed to some small disciplinary offenses that will make them in this society minor, because we want prosecutors to be further institutions, and certainly not operatives, apologists, such as this law on judges, to a large extent, made judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8673	I thank Mrs. Djeric. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8674	Too bad there are no representatives of the government, but it is even more unfortunate that there is no dear Hope of Kolundzija and Suzanne Grubjesic, because if they were there and if they heard the explanation of this amendment, I am sure they would accept it on behalf of the parliamentary majority. Like this, Cossic, what should I do to you, you're not a minister, you're always in the Assembly, you're not authorized to say – I accept the amendment. You from the Democratic Party, if you meet Hope, explain to her what this is about. I couldn't say that already for these G17 plus guys, 'cause they're all on fire somewhere, counting money in some corner. I'm sorry, Nikola. Nikola's a G17 plus freak, he's not the one. Article 104 regulates, gentlemen pretend to be prosecutor and deputy prosecutor, pay attention, what are disciplinary offenses in the prosecution. It's a big member, almost a whole side. There are several amendments to this article, to erase something. You heard, Mrs. Zlata previously explained in what sense her intervention is, but there is another intervention to erase a single indent that says - she does not respect working hours. At first, I have to remove the dilemma because of the people of the Democratic Party, because some times they can get it wrong. There's a big difference in the status of judges and prosecutors. If the judiciary, and the personification of the judiciary is a judge, can say that it is independent and independent and that the state has to guarantee it, then the prosecutor's situation is a little different and it just has to guarantee independence. Because of the fact that there is this principled difference we criticised you about the law on judges because you introduced disciplinary responsibility for judges, because out of independence and independence of judicial functions, in case they do something wrong, there is an institute of resolution, but not disciplinary responsibilities. When it comes to the prosecution, disciplinary responsibility should exist. Why? Because for the prosecutorial office in Serbia, the most responsible republican public prosecutor, at the district level -- is the district district attorney, at the level of the district court -- the district attorney, and the municipal public prosecutor. I take this old nomenclature of division, it will be completely different when these laws are passed, because it will follow, both by name and by jurisdiction, the organisation of courts. But don't take it as bad for me. I think it should exist. Why? Because in one municipal public prosecutor's office, there are a municipal public prosecutor and several deputies. Deputys are acting on behalf of the D.A. You don't have an extra judge in courts. He's independent and independent. That's why there's only independence here in the prosecution, but it's not guaranteed independence, because it has to work according to instructions, recommendations, mandatory instructions from the authority's elder, and it's not a mistake to say -- the DA's office's office is, for example, the district attorney. The D.A.'s attorney general has always been and always will be, because he decides everything and everything. The second, in another future organisation of the Republic of Serbia, will be the head of the district. So, you're insolent, you're chasing the boards of directors, the government, the ministries, etc., that you know that, in fact, the largest authority of these two officials will, by definition, have. Too bad they don't have it today. So, district attorney and district chief. But it's all weird with us and the tubes. Why is this disciplinary responsibility necessary? Here, first of all, it refers to the disciplinary responsibility of the deputy prosecutor. Let me explain, I'll read what's written here. You know, there are good things, but the problem is that it's not actually applied. The problem is this could be the result of the prosecutor's abuse. Batic just told you nicely, but in that crowd someone deliberately turned it the other way. He filed several dozen criminal charges. He says openly, "Or do you follow them, press charges, charges, or reject them." If you throw them away, then he steps in and chases. However, no, a way has been found, and that's a long time ago – put yourself in a drawer and catch the mold, although the one holding it in the drawer knows that there's something to do, but he won't, because if Batic goes on personality, he might succeed in criminal proceedings and end up a subsidiary prosecutor. The same problem I faced with one of the "Zoombul" who escaped. We've filed a criminal report and we're waiting. It is the jurisdiction of the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, the minority just to sign, to move to the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, and it will be acidified. Do you know, Mr. Cossic, how long will it get sour? While Miki Rakic, this is the chief security officer, then your Kruševljanin Vukadinović, he is the secondary BIA director, he is an operative, performs tasks, dirty jobs, etc., Gilas, who is pretendant to be president of the Democratic Party, Sutanovac... While I was at Shukit's "Plaze", just to remind you, you from the Democratic Party, and you laughed when we talked about severances from G17 plus: Nedeljkovic took severance and got a job again in a state-owned company; Sutanovac took severance when the federal state broke down, 40 salaries. Who was in the Federal Assembly, he knows. Yeah, there's never an answer. What Dinkic said last night in an interview, so I said that last night Dinkic was as rare as when honestly, he was very scared, but he was honest, and he said – when he shut down some institutions, he paid his severance payment, and for ten years he couldn't get a job in the state service. Shuki "Plasma" became defence minister. Let me remind you, Vesic turned out to be much more correct. He didn't get a job in the state service, and they're in the same rank. If I'm lying, ask Zoran Zivkovic. Keep your mouth shut and keep your mouth shut, you're weak. Press clipping and computer running, just spinning by date and when the time comes, the book is published. Of course, we take care of the names of the books, because the good name sells the book: Laufer One, Laufer Two, that turkey Kristina Dal; when she sees the name of the man, she immediately gets interested in what's in there and she's just pleasantly surprised when she reads all the official data. I just made a little introduction, I don't want to get involved in the judiciary, you know, when I'm going after him, he ends up in jail. You don't have to accept it, but when I do some trial, that's what I get. What problems can prosecutors face, and these problems are caused by deputies? Very realistic, everyone will understand that. He says, "He often misses or is late for scheduled searches, discussions and other procedural actions in the cases assigned to him." Not to order further, based on personal experience: an investigative judge conducts an investigative shop, a suspect has arrived, and a potential defender has arrived, no prosecutor, no action can be conducted. The prosecutor comes in and says, "I'm sorry, co-worker, but with this case, he's in charge of the N.N., and I, Branko Stankovic, am not. I didn't have time. We took it out this morning. It's a re-examination. Then a man came and asked the judge, and he said, "Yes, I represent." What are you representing? That's what it says there. Do you know what that says? He has no idea what it says. Then he argues and says: "At that time the bill on the budget system was in force, on public revenues, on public expenditures." He says - I didn't know there was that law. I don't know if there's any award rules, no man knows anything. If this standard were to be applied objectively, our prosecution would be out of deputies. There's one thing that can't be regulated here, and it's running everywhere. Maybe the deputy district attorney's behaviour is being handled by a district attorney's order, so he's tasked with being uninformed, un-opened, that he doesn't know anything, that he doesn't know when he's in charge of the case, where the case is, what he needs to do, what he needs to collect. So, poor guy, ignorant, he's lost major evidence in some case. Can we regulate that by law? Legally, the D.A. is responsible for that. When you go to the republican public prosecutor... We don't have a republican public prosecutor now, we have a tourist who's in V.D. We don't have quality prosecution. I can give you examples and examples. Let me not tell you about this War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, not to tell you about this organized crime, that for example, these prosecutions read what constitutes a disciplinary injury that needs to be disciplined. I don't want to go into sanctions, what needs to be done, but, please, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, remember if something like this happened to you or if you heard from your neighbor, friend, cousin, or if you have a child who deals with that legal profession, he goes to court, so he tells you what happens. He says, "miss to seek exception in cases where there are legal reasons." Half of them are also suing the court's husbands and wives. Maybe it's a fifth. How about I don't talk about the lawyerry; the lawyers, the prosecution, the court, that triangle when it's done... I praise you, Srdjan, to finally start talking normally. Here we go. Srdjan's on. Well done. You should be the ideologist of the Democratic Party. A nice man said, "We've got this stuff -- the police, the DA's office, the lawyers, the court." I don't want to talk about defenses on official duty. You probably heard, the police bring a man in, there needs some defense, they give him a business card right away, which lawyer comes by. You remember that payment, he says - you'll have to pay a little more. Why, it's not on the tariff? So I pay the judge, then I pay the D.A.'s office, then I pay the cop, and where am I? I don't caricate this, but I make it interesting for the viewers to understand what problem the state is facing. This is not a problem that can be solved by one party, but those parties that are in power must be absolutely clean to resolve this. We are the opposition, and we must criticise you and ask you to settle these matters, because you have the leverage of power. Don't be angry about that criticism. "What are you calling us? "Who are we going to do this to? We can't do St. Peter. You're in power, you're in charge, you're in charge, you're in charge of this, you're in charge of applying these provisions, and you're guaranteeing purity, and not like these nervous G17 pluss caught in the act, so now they don't like that term. It must be this primitiveism to get out of Serbia. No one got the deed to expertise, knowledge, beauty. Let's move on, he says, "he does not follow the written instructions of a senior public prosecutor," the situation will hardly happen, "obviously violates the obligations of proper treatment against judges in proceedings, parties, their legal representatives, witnesses, staff or colleagues" -- that never happened. "It is engaged in inappropriate relations with the parties or their legal representatives in the lead procedure" – it will be made not to be seen. "It gives incomplete or incorrect information of importance for the work of the State Council of Prosecutors" and so on; "it violates the principle of impartiality and threatens the confidence of citizens in the public prosecutor's office". (President: Time. ) It endangers citizens' confidence in the public prosecutor's office. Based on that, 70% of the prosecutors need to get their feet kicked out of these rooms. Mr. Krassic... I apologize for these 30 seconds, but Europe will wait for us, don't worry. I'm sorry about this file. I didn't show it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8675	The amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antić. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Radicals, it would be much better if instead of banging on the bench you gave an answer to everything I talked about on Friday, did you forge the signature of Vojislav Seselj. But, then, let me move on to this amendment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 105, which refers to disciplinary sanctions. Mr Krasic just spoke of disciplinary violations. There are many of them listed in this law, and they are very serious about these disciplinary violations. The disciplinary sanctions are, according to the SNS, the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic, very mild and we have tried, i.e. I have tried this amendment to make these disciplinary sanctions as harsh as possible, to get as much as possible and to force potential offenders to consider whether they will commit disciplinary violations. As far as disciplinary sanctions are concerned, they are ranked on three levels. First one's a public notice. The second is a reduction in salary of up to 50% to one year. So it can be a month, it can be two months, but it can be a year at the most. The third ban on progress is up to three years. As for wage cuts, this third sentence can only last a month, only two months, only a year, and no more than three years. I think that this most severe sanction prescribed by this law is too small, and I suggest my amendment that instead of "up to three years" it be "from three years old" to be fixed, that it can't be less than three years old, because then why even a disciplinary sanction. From the disciplinary violations I would single out, which I think are the most serious, and there are many here, I would like to quote: "miss to seek exemption in cases where there are legal reasons." It's a very serious offense that is often used in our prosecution. Then, “he refuses to perform the affairs and tasks that are entrusted to him” – this is a form of extreme indiscipline. "It engages in inappropriate relations with parties and their legal advocates in the process that leads; it accepts gifts contrary to regulations that regulate conflict of interest" -- factual, bribery and corruption in the prosecution. These are serious reasons for this maximum sanction to be at least a three-year ban on progress in your profession, so I think you have a very serious reason to accept this amendment. I also believe that the conduct of the public prosecutors and how it threatens the public interest, the credibility of the prosecution and only trust in the judiciary. It is necessary to raise this level of responsibility in the prosecution to a higher level, which is why I call on all MPs, both the opposition and the ruling, to accept this amendment, because only the government's argument is extremely incorrect and inappropriate to the gravity of these sanctions. In the end, I would like to inform the citizens of Jagodina and Serbia about a criminal report filed by the Jagodin advances, which I was talking about on Friday, that the Third District Prosecutor's Office has pleaded unauthorized and that the criminal charges after a month and a half have not returned to Jagodina. We will have the opportunity to talk about this criminal report and the obvious falsification of the signing of the president of the SRS in a future period, but it is inappropriate for the prosecution to refer in such a way to obvious criminal acts, because that counterfeit was released into legal traffic. The case shows that we must have significantly more serious sanctions when it comes to the prosecution's work. During the speech of MP Zoran Antic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8677	The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8678	Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we MEPs of the ZES Group believe that the amendment proposed by counterpart Zoran Antic to this amendment is more comprehensive than what was proposed in the bill. So we're talking about disciplinary measures defined in Article 105. It's a bill of law. Article 104 contains norms that prescribe and define what are disciplinary offences. Paragraph 2 of Article 104 speaks of a serious disciplinary violation, and Article 3 of the same article's position on a relapse, i.e. the return of a disciplinary offence. The solution offered by the law is considered solid, but we believe that a fixed amount of three years of banning progress is a more comprehensive disciplinary measure for serious infringements of disciplinary measures. If this solution were to remain for up to three years, we believe that in a certain way this disciplinary measure would be relativeized, and that could also be a ban on one month, three months, a year. When we say, if we accept this amendment, that the three-year rule of progress is fixed, we believe that this and the purpose of sanctioning disciplinary offences will be more effective. Therefore, MEPs will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8679	MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a chance to hear the president of the Legislative Committee, who was obviously uncomfortable that he had to accept an amendment submitted by an unauthorized person. You must know that, and from there I see the discomfort that you have accepted this amendment. As far as the SRS is concerned, we believe that the provisions relating to disciplinary sanctions are entirely excessive, because if someone has all the qualifications to be a public prosecutor as required by the law and if they are wrong about the law, and everything is provided for in Article 104, which is not allowed by a public prosecutor, then it can only be resolved. Everything else is declassified. I don't know what you're going to accomplish by taking 50% of your salary from a man who's a public prosecutor in a year? You think he'll work in accordance with the law later? No, he's gonna figure out how to make 50% and a little more. Since this citizen who before me was behind this speaker was asking questions from the SRS, here, I'll ask him one question, if he can answer. In short, I will ask him a question actually sent by a citizen to his current president of the party "take everything that life gives you", Mr. Tomislav Nikolic. He took all the money from the party, but he left some papers, so we found it and introduced ourselves to the crime of the flocks gathered around Tomislav Nikolic. It's interesting that this flock has been gathering for quite some time. Here's what this citizen writes: "Dear Mr. Nikolic, I am speaking to you with the intention of introducing you to some information about your MPs you are certainly not familiar with. In fact, the SRS enjoys the image of honest representatives of the people, but is that right? As your voter, I would like to introduce you to the fraud committed by your envoy from Jagodina, Mr. Zoran Antic. Until the election, the gentleman had an independent Nectar store and was supplied with goods in the DO 'Centroport' from Ćupre. Right after the election, when the SRS took the victory, and Mr. Antic became an MP, he closed down an independent trade shop and remained in our debt... ". I'll say next time as much as I can for some goods, or whatever it is and what supplies it's taken. "For all this goods he has issued a note without cover, which is a crime under Article 171. Criminal law. That item was to be paid for during the election campaign, but we did not prosecute it at the time, considering it as our contribution to your election campaign. The question arises whether we are the only ones who have been deceived by this gentleman. We'll press charges and criminal charges, but many of your opponents will look forward to getting that information. That's why I ask you to influence Mr. Zoran Antic with your authority to settle your obligation, because what kind of a representative of the people, and even the chairman of the SRS district board, if he cheats on the people he represents? "Whom this martyr from Centerpromet complained today and himself – someone who is an even greater criminal than Zoran Antic, because he stole the election will of the citizens, or kidnapped the mandates of the SRS. He publicly confessed in front of all the media, electronic, printed, all the newspapers were broadcast, all the TVs were broadcast, all of you heard, the president of the Legislative Committee heard, the heads of Parliament clubs, and no one was responding. So you're allowing the theft. If you allow the theft of an election will, if you tolerate this crime, then what bothers you when we talk about the individual crime of someone in power? Believe me, maybe it's even marginal compared to what these people did here in the Serbian Parliament. That should be question number one: can we steal the election will of the citizens? Can we tolerate that? If we can't do it, we can't do anything else. If we can do that, you're obviously willing to tolerate crime of every kind and on every level. There's no small and large crime, it just depends on how much it's available to anyone, something small to steal and something big. It's not even that Kristo's fault, when you look at it, he took what the government had allowed him to take, probably a little who wouldn't take it. It's the government that's immoral. The government is the one who set those wrong principles. How are we gonna fight crime? It's best if we cross each other's arguments. One place we can do that is this pay phone, it's Parliament, and another place is the media. The media favors someone, for some of them open, for some of them completely closed, but every time I come out here, I'm gonna ask every possible electronic media, especially those with a national frequency, especially from RTS, to put a duel between me and Mr Nikolic or anyone else from the SRS and someone from that party "take everything that life gives you", so we can see if they can tell us what they think of crime, what they think of tycoons, what they think of Eulex, about the European Union, what they think of this new Kumanovo Agreement that Ponoš and Tadic are announcing to us, and they haven't asked anyone here in the National Assembly. So what's minimally supposed to be done, that's to hear both sides. As long as the media doesn't open up, you'll have this in the Assembly. We're going to use this pay phone because it's our only place to cross arguments and bring out everything these people do, starting with the theft of mandates and beyond. But here's to first television, the first editor of an information program to provide such a duel, I promise one lunch in my performance, I will hand-made all the local specialties and host it, so let's see what it looks like. It could even be part of that spectacle.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8681	According to the Rules of Procedure, Ambassador Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8682	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian radicals, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, were supposed to read the date at least, don't hide, don't construct. It's a January 2004 memo. It's a December 2003 campaign. I just want to tell you one thing. In 2001, in March of the month, when the SRS had not even 5% of the votes, had not passed the censorship, had not had any MPs, I assumed to be the chairman of the Municipal Committee in Jagodina. In October 2001, too, since no one wanted to stand before the SRS, I took over to be the chairman of the district board for three years, or until 2003/2004. In fact, by means of my own resources, I had two stores, supported a complete Pomorava County. In 2004, I closed the store. That's right. Of course, like any entrepreneur, and that's no secret, when you close the store you stay and tax liabilities and unpaid debts and it took time, it doesn't pay off in 15-20 days, it took time to pay off. Some people are nervous, they think you'll avoid your obligations if you become an MP, so they thought they should put some pressure on you. There was no reason, all my debts relating to the shop were settled in the beginning of 2004. So this memo and the way you try to manipulate me and introduce me as some man who's dishonest is extremely inappropriate. Unfortunately, in Serbia today, a bunch of my corporate colleagues are not coming in time to pay for neither utility nor water, nor taxes, nor to pay suppliers in time, because of this economic policy, and nothing happened. But be assured that, as far as I could, I was helping the SRS, and now that I've come out proud of myself, only debts based on previous campaigns, I didn't bring anything with me, not an apartment, not any of the privileges about which individuals from the SRS write about these days. There is no reason that in this way, which shows more about you than about me, about what kind of people you are and what you do, you talk about and call not only me, fiction, structures and lies, I mean, first of all, Tomislav Nikolic, Alexander Vukic. Concentrate, gentlemen, on your story. Your political story doesn't have enough stuff and that's the problem. The only thing left for you to do is lie, make-up, structure, disdain, spit, bang, throw for voters. Believe me, you're wrong. That you were wrong and that you are still wrong the best show so far the results of the SRS. Thank you. During the speech of MP Zoran Antic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8683	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8684	Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I can't say either, sir, but here's the citizens, all citizens are respected, whether you're stealing or not, that's the question. Did you issue a note without cover? You admitted to stealing. If you've issued a note without cover, it's a felony. What does that mean? It means you're a fraud, you're a thief, and what else can I tell you? You've labeled yourself. As for the Serbian Radical Party, don't worry at all. Here, we are ready to fail if it is in Serbia's interest, I just believe that it is not in Serbia's interest and that it will be very well recognised by the citizens of Serbia. But if the price is for Serbia to move forward, we are ready to close the party because we are not concerned with self-interest, as you do. There is a lot of evidence here in these files of what Tomislav Nikolic is, what this Aleksandar Vukic was doing, in what situation he brought his house, or his own party, which we consider to be another house. We do politics to bring good to those who come behind us and to remember us for good. The moment we do that, it may be that there are no more SRS, but unfortunately, there's still a lot of work to do for us and we're ready to do it. As you can see, you have not completed the task you have received, you have not completed 15% of the task. They're very angry with you, both across the street and they're much further there, and especially these tycoons, Miskovic and Beko, who have formed this government, so you have great competition. Your mission is a failure, a failed attempt, what to do to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8685	Mr. Antic again, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8686	Ladies and gentlemen of the Radicals, it seems to me that you're mostly talking about yourself, because if I'm so bad, if you've been so unhappy with me, why have you held me president of the county for so many years? From 2001 to 2008, I was president of Pomoravsky County for seven years and in charge of the district. If I'm so bad, if I didn't contribute to anything, why do you keep such bad people around you? I think, as I said, you're mostly talking about yourself, trying to fool Serbian citizens again; I think you're running away from those basic issues, issues why the SRS is not in power today, which is why Serbian citizens have been hostages of the SRS for the past seven years. A lot of things are true, gentlemen. I did not understand in the previous period, for example, why Mrs. Verica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, from this pay phone, so eyelessly attacked Zoran Djindjic by calling him the mafia prime minister when it was obvious that most Serbian citizens were disgusted by it. I also didn't understand the amount of privtimism against political opponents that you had no respect for. I didn't even understand why Vojislav Seselj Zvezdan Jovanovic called Gavril Princip during the political campaign. I didn't understand why we didn't make a government after the presidential election when we had a majority with the Democratic Party of Serbia. I didn't understand much while I was with you, and for God's sake, she didn't understand the majority of the MPs sitting in your MPs' club right now. We were all wondering if it was possible for you not to see us working against ourselves, if it's possible that you can't see that we're lowering the SRS rating. But today, gentlemen, when I see how you treat us, when I see how you deal with politics, I understand a lot of things. Obviously, it was not your goal to be part of the government, that it was not your goal to create a government, that you had been deluding this Serbian poor woman all along, that you were undermining it in fact to the Democratic Party, because this privatism against whom, at first sight, the Democratic Party was most appropriate to the Democratic Party. So, you've tried and today you're trying to lower Tomislav Nikolic's rating and Alexander Vukic's rating. Your goal is to remain the only political party on the other side, as an opposition party, and that Serbian citizens have no one to vote for. I'm sorry, gentlemen, to say the least, but you are trading in human souls, trading in Serbian citizens, you are pimping Serbian citizens with Democrats. It seems to me, your task, especially at the moment when you have no chance of being a serious political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8687	Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8688	Citizen Antić, thank you on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party for finally putting forward the programme and your new political party, which is called "take everything that life gives you", i.e. "take power at all costs". It's the only thing you've managed to write in your program, but it's the Democratic Party programme, they said in the election campaign. So, you'll both be with the black devil and at all costs, just for big money to put yourself where you need to go, go and make a government. Let me tell you, perhaps the Serbian Radical Party, given that Tomislav Nikolic so authoritarianly led the party, missed the possibility of entering the government in talks on forming a government and taking responsibility in these difficult moments for the state, precisely because others in it previously recognized the fraud, criminal and foreign mercenaries and knew what his task was. That might be one of the reasons. But time passes, there will be another choice. The problems are piling up, you see sessions running, everything's being talked about, we don't get to talk about everything. The views and actions of all political parties will be clarified and no more lies will be made. We will hardly be able to deceive the citizens of Serbia, now they have seen everything, that anything is possible, nothing can surprise them anymore. Now I guess they'll finally figure out who they can trust. I am convinced it will be the Serbian Radical Party. We'll try to keep it that way, as far as we can, we'll see. If we get locked up like this fully, maybe we won't, though -- we'll sharpen our shoes, we'll put blocks in Serbia, we'll walk a little bit more, we'll get to the people, and we'll explain to them what this has been and what this is all about. As I see it, every day more and more people realize what you're up to, whose account you're up to and where you saw yourself. Mission tried, mission failed. Your actions best speak of you, how moral you are, how honorable you are, and how this society has gathered together, every day about one thing at a time. Nothing personal, just what already exists somewhere recorded, or there are reports, or the prosecution should work, or the police should work or the citizens write about you. That is why, as such, you have gathered from various services around Tomislav Nikolic. Just nod your head, but that's, unfortunately, that's it. If we were to be punished, we would be punished only for keeping the snake in trouble, and we didn't drown it in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8689	Mr. Zoran Krasic, by amendment. Here you go. You've got seven minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8690	I'd like to start talking about this amendment and warn both government representatives and Mrs. Kolundji... I don't know if Vlatko Ratkovic has been authorized to accept this amendment. You handle it on your MP's group. I must warn you that today is the second time you've made a mistake. I have nothing against that warmth, pleasantness, new love, etc. That's your problem. But I must draw your attention to the fact that if you adopt this amendment past the government's position, in addition to opposing the government's amendment, you question whether we have a new concept of the prosecution at all. I'm distracting you. Mrs Pop-Lazic said very nicely at first – okay, there are disciplinary violations. You've prescribed it. What could be sanctions? It could be a public warning. A serious disciplinary injury can be observed and automatedally based on the launch of a resolution procedure, because it is simply uncomprehensible how the deputy district attorney is represented, and for a year he has been punished and receives 50% of the salary. Understand one more thing. You are now practically making it impossible for someone to apply for a senior court, because you have introduced three years, by adopting this amendment. Secondly, if you accepted this amendment, Mr. Ratkovic, what about individualizing the sentence? It's a principle. You're a lawyer. You're the chairman of the Legislative Committee. For that serious injury, it's been a three-year ban. The government proposed a better solution – up to three years. This is how you fixed it. So there are at least 25 reasons why the amendment should not be considered at all. A man has strayed here. Let him go. By mistake, the man is here, thanks to Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. She made herself a backup game for you. Open up the site of the National Assembly, and see which parties are present in the National Assembly. These phenomena are not on the political scene. There weren't any at all. These are hybrids; they are made "zumbuls" to draw public attention, not to be interested in Kosovo and Metohija, for the global economic, financial crisis, for joining the EU, for economic position, for social misery, for conducting intelligence and spy services in Serbia. That's all you want to throw under the carpet, so someone can break their teeth on something insignificant and make some news out of it, some affair. There is no need to make news and affairs, give us back our 20 mandates and - travel, Iguman. You are required to secure 78 seats for the Serbian Radical Party. I'm not interested in anything else. I don't even want to talk. The laws are clear. The constitution is clear. The Rules of Procedure are clear. It is clear that Boris Tadic, Miki Rakic and others want this rock in the leg to be for a while. Remember, there will be a big rock on Boris Tadic's neck and the Democratic Party. After this flood, there will be no room for this kind of primitive policy that you have brought to Serbia since 2000. Terrible primitiveism: voting from Bodrum; voting from Thessaloniki; money laundering; sale of banks; destruction of banks. You have a coalition partner, a world expert who has a European perspective in politics. Why didn't you take him to America to take down their banks there? Why didn't you take the younger brand out to America? He'd take out their banks like he did ours, four, six. He's proven himself an expert. Don't let a man prove himself now by destruction in Serbia, to live on laurels because of destruction. What an inversion! Mrs. Malovic, I'll give you this file. Here are two administrative cases before the Belgrade District Court, Už. 97/08 and Užr. 98/08. They refer to the administration's silence over the term of office. Why isn't this resolved, even though it's been 48 hours, as prescribed by the law? Because Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas have concluded that they need to make a gift-mar, to introduce temporary measures, since this love is manifested daily, and even in these outflows of tenderness such as – we adopt the amendment. I respect this kind of emotion. I can see he can't hide it anymore. That's good. That's what we need to do in public. Everything needs to be transparent. That kind of political love can exist, it's your choice, there's no problem, but return 20 terms. Kidnapped--damn. It's illusory to talk. A man spoke to you earlier, he swore at the church, and he did all sorts of things, but that's the way you love him. That's your problem. I'm not getting into that. Return the mandates you stole. You've stolen, they're just a means in your hands. Let me inform you, I now understand where Nikolic found a professor for those bonds - a colleague of Antić. He taught him how to write notes, blanco. I thought he knew something. He had to teach him this one. We ran away from everyone who ran financials in the party with Nikolic. Now the bills are coming, so we realize that something on your hands has been paid, by contract, so some account needs to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8691	Time. The amendment was submitted to Article 111 by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Djeric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 111 to replace the number two number "30" with the number "8". Why? It's a disciplinary case against the prosecutor. Namely, if the prosecutor declares a disciplinary prosecutor about the injury to the prosecution, if a disciplinary commission is declared and an eight-day term is given to the prosecutor to appeal to the State's council, then it is quite reasonable and logical that the same deadline of the State Council should be taken to answer the prosecutor who is in the appeal procedure. First of all, there's not much time for prosecutors to stay out of proceedings. We've seen enough reason today to get all the DA's machine running and I'm afraid we won't have enough for everything we need to deal with. Also, I appreciate that this will not be a mass phenomenon, so the State's major prosecutors will be able to decide within eight days, taking into account all the facts that will be presented to them. So, eight days' time, as long as the prosecutor has to file his appeal, it takes so long for the D.A.'s office to answer him. I think it's justifiable and perfectly logical to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-01-0.u8693	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 118 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Branko Ruzic submitted to Article 128 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 129, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 131, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic also submitted the amendment to Article 133. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 137, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 140th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the Parliament, I thank you for your work, thank Mrs. Minister and her associates. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and today I have called for today's session to be attended by Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF COUNTRY (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Radovan Radovan Radovanovic, Đorđe Milicevic, Zlata Đerić, Miroslav Markicevic, Nenad Konstantinović, Milica Radović, Petar Jojic and together Milica Radović and Miroslav Petkovic. You've received amendments from the Justice and Administration Committee. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. National MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic made a written withdrawal of the amendment to Article 23. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Milica Radovic. Here, you have a word.
