ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7739	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that MP Mladen Grujic has been prevented from attending the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1), paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for the sittings to be attended by Mr Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr Jovan Ćosic, head of Justice. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE COURT OF THE COURT (individuals) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Mićo Rogović, Vladan Batić, Saša Maksimović, together Judita Popović, Slobodan Maraš and Kenan Hajdarević, Stefan Zankov, together Judita Popović and Nebojša Rangelović, Nenad Constantović, Zoran Krasić, Otto Kišmarton, Konsta Samofalov, Milan Škrbić, Natasa Jovanovic, together Milica Radović and Miroslav Petović, Zoran Bortić, Dragan Bortić, Dragan Živkov, Igor Bečić, Vladan Jeremić, Milan Avramović, Momcilo Duvnjak, together Donka Banović and Milica Vojić, Petar Jožić, Milar Jožić, Milar Živić, Milorjan Živić, Miladić, Milažarštovarštarštić, Miljan Žalić, Žrjanić, Žrjanić, Žrjanić, Žrić, Žrjažarić, Žrjan Žrjanić, Miražalić, Mirjavić, Žrjanić, Žrjanić, Žrjan Žrjažarić, Žrjanić, Miražaj. You have received amendments based on Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Dr Vladan Batic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate has begun in detail on the draft law on the regulation of courts. This is certainly a very interesting topic for both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, especially given the fact that there are major problems in Serbia's courts and that the problems have arisen from the work of individual judges in some courts. Of course, we from the Serbian Radical Party have never felt that Serbia's courts generally work badly, nor that the general judges are subject to corruption and the influence of the executive authority, tycoon, but unfortunately, in Serbia there are a number of judges who are under the influence of the executive authority, who are under the influence of the tycoon and who are corrupt. We are convinced that judges from various associations, counting and the Association of Judges of Serbia, are fighting precisely those of their colleagues who defile their name, who defile their profession. This is why they react to the Serbian government's proposal on what is freely called lustration – it is a proposal to put all judges on ice and then choose them in line, probably, with political definitions. We are convinced that just the majority of judges, who do their job with honor, honestly and in accordance with the law, would come under the influence of this so-called. reforms and we don't trust the government of the Republic of Serbia, we don't trust the assembly majority, and we don't believe that good intentions are behind this. Perhaps Mrs Malovic has sincere intentions when she explains that she wants to do something revolutionary and epochal in the judiciary this way. Mrs. Malovic, believe me, you won't succeed if you persist in this. You should listen to the voice of the public, the voice of the citizens of Serbia, the voice of the people of the profession. And by the way, I don't mean you personally, I mean the Government of the Republic of Serbia and these previous governments, to call for some public debates, some general opinion, some general commendation of the bill you offer to the National Assembly, but therefore you are very cleverly avoiding to talk in public about the laws relating to what you call judicial reform, precisely because, from professional public, professional associations, from the ranks of judges and employees in the judiciary, you have a very negative opinion on the proposals of these laws. Yesterday we spoke several times, we will talk today about how the judge is affected, directly or indirectly. In fact, you want to introduce only obedient judges to this lustration in Serbia's courts, those who will work as this court council has done in the District Court in Kragujevac or this court council in the Belgrade District Court, which are directly influenced by the executive authority, under direct influence, specifically in Belgrade - Dragan Gilasa, it is obvious that it has made decisions that correspond to the congregation's majority, or part of the congregation's majority, and those who intend to become the parliamentary majority, and intend to squeeze out some of those who are now the congregation's majority. But that's your problem, you know what's going on in your ranks. It certainly is not an issue for the SRS, but the topic is courts, the topic is problems that Serbian citizens have when it comes to courts, when it comes to the judicial system. We really have to strive for this ideal of independence of courts, judges, judicial functions, but we can't do it as long as the judges are hanging over the head of that sword that says -- watch out, watch out, take care, if there isn't a decision like I told you on the phone, you know that the majority of the Serbian Parliament is waiting for you to be resolved and fired, and there's never again going to be a return to the area of justice. So, you can't, everyone tells you, from the President of the Supreme Court to all the judges who have appeared and spoken on this subject these days, to change and improve the situation in the judiciary by bringing all judges into a dependent position from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at least for a certain time, at least for a time, until it comes to this place and in this room being elected by judges. So it's a pretty long period considering when this law will start to apply. You've practically got all the judges in your hands. Those people who are not ready to influence their work from the executive authority simply have to hide somewhere, in a mouse hole; they will probably keep loose objects or in the days when the discussions are scheduled to be held and who knows what, because they will not dare to work in accordance with the law. Because, you know, when someone in this time and in this difficult economic situation and the social misery in which Serbia is – in terms of earnings, something better than the average citizen in Serbia is standing judges, but that's why they are employed in the judicial administration on that lowest scale when it comes to profits in the state of Serbia – they are constantly threatening and when you have a subconscious that it depends on someone's will whether you continue to do your job or not, then you can't say that this is not an indirect influence on the work of the judicial authorities. Of course, there are always people who are willing to resist it, but unfortunately, there are those who simply have these human traits, who take care of themselves and adapt to the circumstances that are currently being imposed on them. Of course, there's a number of people we talk about all the time. It is that small number of judges and prosecutors who are directly influenced by the executive government, under the direct influence of politics and the ruling majority in Serbia, of course, and the tycoon. Yesterday, Mr. Krasic told you that he almost fainted when he saw that Assistant Minister Mrs. Malovic was the Vojkan Simic. I remind you, you in the hall mostly know, most were MPs when we discussed it, this Vojkan Simic failed to win the votes of the assembly majority and could not pass in this room, although he had already done some work and was convinced that he would be the one to make progress. We had such arguments against him that even the congregation majority did not vote for him. He's the one you found... So he can't go where he wants, he's not bad at the Justice Department either. So you can frame a Private Simic or a few judges, but you can't put all those under your direct control and direct authority, the exact opposite of the Constitution and the law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Mayor of Belgrade, etc. Of course, the topic is very interesting and all colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party will talk about the amendment on this subject, we will present a lot of concrete examples, primarily for the public, for the sake of Serbian citizens and for the legal public and for the people in the field of justice. We want to send them a message that Serbian Radical Party MPs want Serbia's justice to change something better, they want the material position of the judges to improve, they want judges to work neither by their grandmother nor by their uncles, but only by the law, that they are all equal before the law, that the law is the same for everyone. We will make our contribution, as far as possible, in this direction, with the intention of protecting a large number of honorable and honest judges who are now employed in the field of justice. When it comes to the amendment of counterpart Batic, he refers to Article 2. The bill, and Article 2 speaks of the establishment of courts and in attitude 2 says: "I cannot establish temporary, interrupted or extraordinary courts. "A colleague Batic suggested that the word "interrupted" be deleted from this Article 2. The bill, with an explanation: "The mention of broken courts would be a relapse of the past in the law of a European country in the 21st century. This kind of anachronism is unnecessary so long as it would Semanticly belong to the category of temporary or extraordinary courts mentioned in the text of the bill. "Any lawyer who now listens to this explanation can be quite logical and say - well, it's okay, what will we do in the 21st century. Then we read why the Government did not accept this amendment, he says, "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 2(2) is accepted. Proposals for a law adopted under Article 143(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. "Article 143(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says "The establishment, organisation, jurisdiction, arrangement and composition of courts are governed by law. "Did anyone hear the word "decease the court here?" It's not. So, we can accept that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not accept this proposal from counterpart Batic, but you have to give some excessive explanation that will not force us to refer you every day to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We're smart enough, intelligent and educated, law schooled, so you can't fool us like this and make us shut up. What's the problem with my colleague Batic's amendment? I must remind myself of the famous black time of Sabela's action, when 14,000 people were arrested, when counterpart Batic, as minister, suggested that the death penalty be returned to Serbia temporarily. For 15 minutes, says Zoran Krasic, and I believe. I don't know with what motive someone who was in someone seemed appropriate to him, the moment wanted to return the death penalty as a temporary solution now suggests that the word be deleted from court. Exactly what he advocated at the time were the courts. The direct courts were working, otherwise, at the time of the "Sabbe" action and all 14,000 were detained, detained and the state is paying compensation to all of these people because they were illegally arrested and detained. So, if this amendment had come from someone else, we might consider that the intention is sincere. We doubt that, and Mrs. Minister, we ask that when your associates prepare (we know that you do not do so) the Government's opinion on amendments to the MPs of the People's Parliament make sure that the MPs of the SRS take very seriously every amendment, not just the amendments we submit. Don't put yourself in an awkward situation that I have to tell you that in the Ministry of Justice they don't know how to interpret the Constitution, but they don't literally read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7741	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. It shall be subject to Article 6 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7742	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I accept this amendment on its behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7743	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of this bill. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7744	Ladies and gentlemen, after a principle debate, it is more than clear that no one in Serbia is satisfied with the proposed set of judicial laws, from the judges, the Society of Judges, through local self-government, to citizens who will suffer the most because of these legal solutions, because everything has been done without clear criteria. And this renaming of courts serves to conceal the essence, which is: firstly, a violation of the principle of access to justice for all citizens and, secondly, an anti-constitutional re-election of judges, because the Constitution in Article 146 speaks of the continuity of judicial function. How they will judge judges by 1 January 2010 and what this is rather than simple pressure on judges, those who are savingly doing their duty as judges, and these others, I say, are less important. Who will be allowed to stand up until then who knows what kind of political will the regime is, even if it is against the law? This is not only the lustration of the judge, but also the lustration of the courts due to the draft law on the seats of courts and public prosecutors. On the other hand, in general, citizens are dissatisfied with the work of courts and you are trying to implement your ideas on that wave, and the dissatisfaction will, in fact, become even bigger. Why didn't you propose solutions that would make judges see that you are properly worthy of their work and that citizens feel protected in the exercise of their rights that they want to exercise through the court? No, you're playing with each other. What you failed in 2000, after the Dossian Revolution, is now trying to do and put the entire judiciary under political control. One of the regime's spokesmen, which should not be, as the war crimes prosecutor, Vladimir Vukcevic considers these legal proposals to be correcting the constitution itself. I suppose he allows himself to say that the Constitution is bad, which some of you may think, but the law (I guess it's clear to everyone, but not to this prosecutor) may be in accordance with the Constitution or not, but it can't fix it or spoil it, because then it's usually lawlessness and not law. Perhaps even the legislator of these laws thinks that this is the way to "correct" and Article 142. The constitution which reads: "The debate before the court is public and can only be limited in accordance with the Constitution. "In the draft law in Article 7, you add only one word, it is said that the debate before the court is public and that it can only be limited, you add the word - the law, in accordance with the Constitution. This leads us to conclude that the debate, not the public, can be limited. That is why we have submitted this amendment and have tried to correct the text of the law by amending, as legally possible. We suggest that this article reads: "The hearing before the court is public. The public can only be limited by law, in accordance with the Constitution. "I urge you to vote in favour of this and other amendment parliamentary groups forward Serbia. In the end, I would take the opportunity, because I did not want to report to the Rules of Procedure, to thank the citizens of the Književec municipality for the great trust they showed to the Serbian Progressive Foreigner and Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7745	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7746	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of this amendment is to remove any doubt as to whether the public debate before the court is present or not, whether there is a restriction or not. It is precisely because this amendment explains little and removes any doubt and reserve, the parliamentary majority will vote for this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7747	The word is a folk letter from Judita Popovic, and the MP of the people Zoran Krasic, and Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7748	Madam Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I welcome the coalition's intention to adopt this amendment, or to vote positively on this amendment. Not knowing the outcome of your discussion, I've come to say a few words about this amendment. However, given that it is already being positively solved in the same way, I can only complement in this sense that there is never any more caution and more transparency, because transparency is equal to the public; these are very important elements for a fair trial, because transparency, or the public, is a guarantee that allows the public to see in the course of a case before the court. Therefore, it is possible for the public to have knowledge of how this course of trial flows and what the results are. I therefore underline, whenever we are in a position to supplement and explain such useful elements as the public, which is regulated by law, but is strengthened by constitutional power, it is necessary to support and accept such amendments. The constitution, regardless of what it is, is currently in force, must be respected. The Constitution is a supreme legal act in one country and therefore all laws should comply with the Constitution. However, it is not always so, and therefore it is not to be complemented – in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7749	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, followed by the MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7750	We are now in a situation to discuss something that is a constitutional category and something that is subject to regulation of our procedural laws. When a public trial as a norm is built into the Law on Court Order, it is done on a principled basis and more as a reflection of the respect of the Constitution and other laws that regulate it. From the point of view of the matter regulated by the Courts' Law, this provision in Article 7 is absolutely unnecessary. However, when you simply encounter emotions and a great amount of love, then stupidity responds to even greater stupidity, as it pours out tenderness, respect, etc. We just had a chance to see that. Just to draw attention to the founders: this matter is regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that is Article 32(3). I would pray not even to beg but to point out that people should not behave like a wall, but rather take the Constitution into their hands, at least the MPs, to read, to see and to conclude what is written. In that position, I quote, "The public can be excluded throughout the process", here is the talk of disfellowshipping the public, "which is conducted before the court or in the process, only to protect the interests of national security, public order and morals in a democratic society, as well as to protect the interests of minors or the privacy of participants in the process, in accordance with the law. "According to the law" in this provision, the Constitution should be interpreted - in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, in accordance with the Law on Procedural Procedure, in accordance with the Law on Executive Procedure, in accordance with the other procedural laws applicable. Just to remind you, the title of this article is "Right to a fair trial"; it means "application before a court." The public can be excluded, and here it is resorted to – constraint. Wrong term, Mrs. Malovic, completely wrong term. This term that you have inserted concerns those last provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on restrictions on human rights, when they are possible, under what conditions; when protection is to be based on democratic order in Serbia, then it is possible to limit, state of emergency, war, etc. From the point of view of constitutionality and legality, it would be best if this member did not exist or if he had a formula that the public of the trial could be excluded, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. It's the simplest formulation that reflects everything. If someone's trying to legislate the constitution or try to be very smart, so put your finger on your forehead and think, then we get the most ridiculous formulation. I hope the government won't accept what Mrs. Hope Kolundji said they'll both accept. I don't mind that, I'm just expressing my opinion that it wouldn't be in accordance with the Constitution. You missed your appointment. Right, they rarely use synonyms very rarely. It's a very precise category, it has to do with philosophy and logic; no matter what the logicists sleep, but it has to do with logic and sound judgment. This, in your opinion, tiny shade simply leads to the punitive appearance of the right to a fair trial in the part of the public proceedings. I thank the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for watching the Second Channel in good numbers yesterday, according to all the surveys. You had an opportunity after 10:00 to follow up on a video of something that was a public trial. You had a chance to see... (Chairman: National MP, please, please, by respecting Article 103, you're talking about a point that's on the agenda. ) Mrs. Comic, I don't think you have a bill in front of you. Article 7 has the title - the public, and it refers to the public court case. What style figures I'm going to use and how am I going to convince... (President: Get to the public of the court proceedings and events in the Assembly at 10:00 p.m. yesterday or return to the agenda and the amendment on which you express your opinion and on the basis of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. ) Mrs. Komic, please take a copy of the law on the agenda, amendments and the opinion of the Government on the amendment. I've been pleading for five and a half minutes to protect the constitutionality of this member. I draw your attention that, as a principle provision, this article applies to the public of court proceedings and, of course, to positive examples of court practice, I should show why it is much better and more correct that the word "limit" is not here but "off". I can comment on any court case available to the public so that the public understands how right I am. Please have this in front of you when you're trying to interrupt me. You won't be able to interrupt me, because I'm talking about the subject, I'm talking about the public court case. Of course, I also want to show what European practice is and what the practice of the United Nations is when it comes to public proceedings. I don't know, you're talking about grabbing towards the European Union, I guess you want to rephrase those standards here. Now I'm just telling you about a standard that exists in the European Union. If you think it's forbidden to talk about the standards of the European Union, I will withdraw, but now I'm also talking about the standards of the United Nations. We are members of the United Nations, we have certain obligations we must respect. This, above all, refers to the International Pact on Civil and Political Freedoms. European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights... I would recommend that you read some of my books; go to the SRS, I have a few books there on human rights, educate yourself so you can lead this parliament. So the public had a chance to see what it looked like yesterday when the trial was public. The public has also had opportunities, for 13 months, to see what happens when the procedure shuts down the public. Turning the public off is when there's nothing, when the session's closed. When those dice and those modified voices appear, it's protected. You can see there's a difference. When a public procedure, as it was last night, you had the opportunity to see that the defendant could defend his rights and his interests to extend it to the interests of the entire Serbian people, on the very date when everyone attacked Serbia: and the International Court of Justice, and these foreigners from Kosovo and Metohija, those who celebrate some of their dates. You've seen the fog rise, and all the barriers fall when the truth speaks. Then you see an expert witness who's confused, obviously prepared, stuffed to tell a story; he can't figure out how it's possible that the bodies from Osijek could be on Velebit. If there were no public proceedings, could we be able to control how judges work, could we be able to control whether the prosecutor is falsifying, established, or well-leading his case? This is why the public proceedings are important. So if the public is limited, as you wrote in Article 7, then that allows for different interpretations of the word "limitation". This may mean that the public will not be present when the N.N. testifys, the public will not be present when the N.N. testifys. The first five minutes, so I don't go any further than any idea can come to mind by any of the judges who are suffering today for re-election. Now they have to prove they're completely yellow, 100% yellow. Unless he's 100% yellow, he's not in court. That's the big dilemma. It's common for the public to shut down. The Constitution has well prescribed these exceptions: national security, private life, protection of the interests of minors and that fourth condition. You don't have to go outside. Look, if you put this in the law or this weird formulation proposed by the amendment, then you confuse the judges. In order for the judge to prove his "yellow" color, he will cast the Constitution, cast the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Executive Procedure, and take the law on the regulation of courts and say - I am authorised to restrict. How? As I will. You've seen some judges freely interpret it. Last night you had the opportunity to listen, there were reasons for some of the decisions of the district courts, where the judge boasted in his explanation that he had done something contrary to the law in which Mr Markovic, who was scolding, was involved, says, "I simply do not understand that I am a member of the 47th Courts can do so." Why? Because the provisions on the public meet according to many laws, in many laws there are moments even contradictory provisions, not something that represents a logical trail. Then you'll have this situation so that the judge can also be called to the rules of procedure of the local community, because at some point, it suits the rules of procedure of the local community, although it should, let's say, apply Criminal Law. I don't think it's a good idea for laws to get free interpretations of people who aren't so capable of interpreting it the right way. Here, I have to support the government. You wrote your opinion well, but someone, probably after the ideologist Srdjan Milivojevic, ordered – give us a little more, we lack some percentage to win." Win, no problem, but bring back the stolen and do what you want. It's been kidnapped, they don't know it, but return what's been stolen. When you return what's stolen, you'll be able to keep working. Then we'll do a lot more by the law, if we have to and 300 amendments a day, we'll work, but return what's stolen. It can't be a democratic flow of theft. We can't go to Europe with a thief's way of acting. How is it possible that a thief gets a satisfaction, a social reputation? Don't do that. You're destroying the system of values. What's stolen has to go back to public procedure, so he doesn't get a warning... So, in public proceedings, he has to come back. Otherwise, you can hold this as long as you want, you're giving me an extremely good creamworth to identify whoever's stealing and who's guarding the thief. Make sure you don't cross that line. To know that you're very close to that line when it breaks the citizens; it's long gone for them. Mrs. Comic, I'm buying you these ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7751	Anything for Europe, MP. Have you called to tell me you're talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: I have reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I reserve the right to speak of the amendment because you have injured the Rules of Procedure. People's MP, you can have your word if you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Certainly, when I finish it, I will get the order of words about the amendment. ) No, it's going to come to the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radet, because she wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and when someone gets the floor decided by the chairman, most of all that's why. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7752	Fortunately, that's why there's a 27. The Rules of Procedure, which you have injured, so I must point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. When MP Zoran Krasic spoke, you interrupted him at one point. It's your old practice not to listen to an extended sentence, and to interrupt the MP without seeing the meaning of that sentence or what the MP wants to say. You see, the moment you interrupted Zoran Krasic, it's quite possible that you were right, but you couldn't possibly have known that unless you had the power to predict. You had to listen to the end of the sentence. We were all witnesses that a man put an end to the moment you interrupted him and didn't finish his sentence. You should hear that. Then you received sermons from Mr Krasic for your actions, but in the end, you caused it to experience sermons from other MPs, as I have now reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is there one way to convince me that I was wrong when I came out to determine this breach of the Rules of Procedure? How can you conclude, on the basis of half the sentence spoken by the MP, that he is not sticking to a subject that is on the agenda? If you have these abilities, I really admire you because I don't have them. I always admire the powers and abilities of the people who own them, if they're positive and interesting about something I don't own, let me tell you right now. You'll have to prove it to us, because based on a given example, it couldn't be seen. I'd like to ask you... I will now return to my post, since I have pointed out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, certainly someone else has reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to react, and then I would like to hear your argument. If I am not satisfied with it, I will ask for a word again and so I will ask for the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly to be declared in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7753	There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP, the chairman of the National Assembly is the only one who must interrupt the speaker and remind him of the individual members of the Rules of Procedure that we are all bound to respect. At the moment I listen carefully to every speaker, this kind of interruption is not only well-intentioned but also the responsibility of the chairman. I think MP Zoran Krasic spoke entirely of the agenda point in his 15-minute period, in accordance with article 103. When I see that he is moving away from the agenda point, I am, by a member of the Rules of Procedure, reminded the MP to return to the agenda. National MP Vjerica Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so MP Milos Aligrudic, then MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7754	I speak on the basis of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like someone from the congregation to explain to us, it could be Mrs. Kolundžija, why every time Mrs. Komic has the need for a normal course of the session (here, today we started to work nicely on the amendments) to focus on the problem of hurting the Rules of Procedure. Does this mean that Mrs Comic has some task and that the assembly majority is actually obstructing the work of parliament because she has just proved it? Mrs. Comic, you have violated and injured Article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In its first position, this article says: "The search in particular is carried out by the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and the amendments proposed to introduce new provisions, with the total search time for each parliamentary group for each amendment being up to 15 minutes. "Where, Mrs. Komic, does it say that we MPs should ask you for a synopsis or some pre-prepared material about how, in what words and what arguments will we say that we are for or against any amendment? So, the parliamentary group is using its 15 minutes foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, with the intention to convince the majority of the assembly and citizens of Serbia that the way the MP talks about some amendment is the best way to convince the assembly majority to vote in favour of the amendment or to vote against the amendments and to explain the amendment to the citizens of Serbia, to the people who are following the work of this Parliament, to explain the arguments of the MP and the parliamentary group that it represents and to explain the amendment. So, Mrs. Comic, the People's MP can stand here for 15 minutes behind the pay phone, follow the time well, 15 minutes after the amendment, or in the discussion of the law in particular; 15 minutes can stand here, keep quiet, dance, sing, swear, whatever he wants to do. It may be a way for the MP to convince the assembly majority to vote or not to vote in favour of the amendment. They are citizens of you, Mrs. Comic, who judge the MPs of the people. So you have no right to draw attention to the MP to what he should talk about when he talks about amendments. I'd ask you to spare us your monologue after this presentation. Here, one more second, now I've just timed out. I ask that the Parliament in voting day declare whether there have been any injuries to article 141. Rules of Procedure on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7755	There were no injuries to either Article 104 or Article 141. When I see the MP turning off the subject of the agenda, I am obliged to remind him of Article 103. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Where does it say?) The People's Parliament of the Faith of the Radeta casts... I'm not throwing away, I'm asking. The People’s MP, the Prophet of Radeta, says that she is not throwing but asking. I believe you have enough knowledge that you can use the use and abuse of your Rules of Procedure to ask questions for a pay phone. So MP Zoran Krasic reminds us of Article 103. I remind you he's a member of 103. ... And, as for the customs of use and abuse of the Rules of Procedure, not to mention the agenda, the basis for giving notice is in Article 106 – if the MP, despite the warning that he is not holding the agenda, continues to talk about a subject that is not on the agenda... The Belief of Radet, from the place: What topic? Where does that say? The People's Parliament is curious and still asks where it says that the amendment... I'll explain, it's no problem. The People's Parliament says I shouldn't explain. You have to decide, or you will seek damage to the Rules of Procedure, so by fulfilling your duty to listen to my explanation, or you will find yourself saying that you should talk about the agenda and during the debate in principle and during the debate in particular. Today's agenda is the law, the amendments to the law are on the agenda, and the debate on amendments is on the agenda. So, no injuries, of course, the assembly will plead. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7756	Madam President, you are wrong when you say you have a completely arbitration position when it comes to interrupting the speech of the MP and when it comes to your assessment whether or not the MP spoke about the matter on the agenda. You see, I've just pointed out that based on what you've done, there's no theoretical way you could have known. It would be the same as if you'd interrupt me now while I'm talking and say that you had a hunch that I wouldn't even talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. That can't be at all. You won't admit you hurt the Rules of Procedure. In addition, besides being wrong, you are now continuing to violate the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 27, which sets out a very wide range of tasks of the President of the National Assembly, which certainly refer to the chairman during the meeting, because the President has given you the authority to chair. You, as chairman, are now in violation of the Rules of Procedure by engaging in a debate with MPs sitting in benches. The only way to carry out a normal search and a normal debate, even when it comes to violations of the Rules of Procedure, is to communicate and dialogue with the assembly speaker, because that is how this parliament technically works. In a moment, you are conducting a dialogue with Verica Radet, who sits in place. If you think she was wrong, give her a warning, it's the way she communicates. For some reason, you didn't want to do it, I suppose, because you want to present yourself to a tolerance, and then give a lecture to the millions of audiences who sit in benches and communicate with them in such a way that only your voice can be heard in television, without the voice and objections of the MP being heard, except as you interpret them. This is, firstly, politically incorrect, and secondly, contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is not the first time we've made any remarks about this behavior, and it doesn't matter if it's the Serbian Radical Party's MPs. A few weeks ago, when we last met in this capacity, I promised you that every time you made mistakes and you violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure at the expense of the rights of the Members of Parliament, which you, Mrs Komic, in this House, you would do to the greatest extent possible of all who chair the meetings of the National Assembly. Therefore, it does not matter at all which parliamentary group is the MP for whom I assess, or my colleagues, that his rights have been violated, we will respond anyway. I am very sorry, until you learn order and conduct in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there will hardly be normal conduct and normal debate in this home. I am prepared to talk about the amendment to Stefan Zankov because there is something meaningful to say, even in relation to this fact of accepting that amendment by the ruling coalition, but it is obvious that it will have to wait for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7757	There's no violation of article 27, MP. So the chairman is obliged to apply Article 103. To remind the MPs that a member of 103 says that we are all obliged to talk about what is on the agenda. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1), so MP Momir Markovic and MP Srdjan Spasojevic, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, you have violated the provisions of Article 103. Rules of Procedure and certainly Article 104. When you pointed out to Mr. Krasic whether or not he could speak and warned him you called on Article 103's position and said that the speaker could only talk about the issue on the agenda. I am asking you for an explanation; if you are not able, look for the stenographic notes and tell the MPs and the Assembly in which part of your speech Mr Krasic came out of the topic that is on the agenda today. The public of the courts tried to speak from the aspect of a criminal trial, which is, among other things, public. You freedom of expression and a political aspect of speech cannot blame the MPs. From the standards of decency and cultural treatment, Mr Krasic did not leave. This is where the Rules of Procedure says well, you can react, but only in the cases provided for by the Rules of Procedure; it is known when the Rules of Procedure provides that you may or may have the right to terminate the speaker. No condition was met to do so to Mr Krasic. Among other things, that's why you took him two or three minutes in his debate, in discussion with him, so he didn't talk about the amendment for 15 full minutes, but for 12 minutes, and objectively he had something to say, and objectively someone didn't like what he was saying. We have today in a very rational and constructive way started the debate on the agenda. The debate today begins in another direction exclusively thanks to you. The fact is that we are talking about courts, but this hall is not a court and you must refrain from making and giving political judgments to those of the opposition who speak here. You express them the way you did in Mr Krasic's case. I ask you, if you are willing and sincerely ready to be constructive, as well as the MPs of the SRS, be kind, refrain from political courts, do not question the way of political or professional expression of individuals, consult the Rules of Procedure in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7759	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP, you can have insight into the stenogram. You have the right to ask the Assembly to plead. So I am obliged to apply Article 103 and I will apply it as it is written in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Then the Messenger of the people Srdjan Spasojevic, then the Messenger of Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, President-in-Office Mrs Comic literally abused Article 27, Article 100 of the 3rd and 4th, injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure and Rule 141 and misused Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Let's get in line. Article 27 says – in this case, the President, the National Assembly, is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing the sessions, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, taking care of the timely and harmonised work of the working bodies, etc., and other tasks provided for in the law. Where does it say, Mrs. Comic, that you can do what you did to the MP, Mr. Zoran Krasic, that in half word, not in half sentence, you stop him? Article 100 of pages 3 and 4 reads – the president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. It is a member who regulates the issue of reporting for violations of the Rules of Procedure. You, Mrs. Comic, are obliged to give an explanation and an explanation when one of the MPs reports by the Rules of Procedure, when advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. When the MP discusses the amendment to your explanation and explanation is not necessary, it is not desirable and there is no place for it. Therefore, you cannot interfere with reporting by amendment and reporting to the Rules of Procedure. That's how you violated the 100th century 3rd and 4th; and after the explanation, when Mr Krasic said - I don't need that explanation, you continued. Article 104 refers to the dignity of the National Assembly. Whenever you chair, Mrs. Komic, you violate the dignity of the National Assembly, and we and you are obliged to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly during our work in the Assembly. Article 141 The Rules of Procedure say - a detailed search is carried out by the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and on amendments proposing the introduction of new provisions, with a total search time for each parliamentary group of 15 minutes, etc. National MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups agree on how much time they will spend. The representative of the SRS parliamentary group under this amendment was Mr Krasic. I have not seen a single moment of reason for you to break into half a word, not in half a sentence, as Mr Aligrudic said, but in half a word, to interrupt the MP and to literally not know what the man was going to say. The right of the MP is to explain the amendment the way he will. It is right, it is an obligation to persuade the MPs to vote in favour or against the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is not the first time. I remember when I came out for one amendment, or for breaking the Rules of Procedure, so Mrs. Komic said to explain it; it was so clear to everyone that I said - you don't have to explain it to me. No, I have to. Okay, explain it to me. And that's why I got the warning. It seems that Mrs. Comic is trying to discipline the MPs, to line them up. That, Mrs. Comic, won't do it anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7761	National MP, none of the provisions you quoted were violated, and you misquoted the event during the presentation of MP Zoran Krasic. He was not warned that he was violating any provision, I just reminded him that the obligation, under Article 103, was to speak about the agenda. The explanations were given to another MP, who asked to speak of it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7762	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Honored Chairman, Honorable Ministers, I advertise Members of Rules of Procedure 27 and 104. Mrs. Komic, it is unacceptable to conduct a session like this. The MPs here in one good atmosphere began to work on the agenda points; there were some seven-eight amendments, the government accepted something, something we're saying that you didn't accept, it's all going one good time, and you've brought us all here all of a sudden into one total mess and nelado. Of course, when it comes out of this room in the means of public information and in many TV shows, the opposition is blamed, for the delay of the law, for unhappiness, for obstruction. It's not like that. Citizens of Serbia, you have an accurate picture of how this parliament works, you saw this morning: we have opened a session, we have started to work, and the chairman doesn't like it; we are going at a good pace, at a good speed, and then the controversy begins with MPs in direct communication. Just a little while longer, Mrs. Comić, so you'll start sending us into a corner to turn around, as if we were undisciplined, as it was in a long time ago, and that's now forbidden in schools; when good students don't go into a corner and turn their backs, so when they like the teacher he says, come on, get back to the place. This really doesn't make sense. This is unacceptable. We have a very important set of laws ahead of us, we have started a debate in particular very correctly and, of course, you are giving a word as you wish. I will tell you that you were wrong seven-eight minutes ago, you broke the Rules of Procedure again: you gave your word to Mr. Dragan Stevanović of the SRS, you called me the next speaker, and then, I don't mind what Momir Markovic said before me, you gave the word to him, so you gave it to me again. However, concentrate a little, this is the Serbian parliament, the laws are being passed here, the executive authority is still being controlled here. And, please, stop this constant need to obstruct this Parliament because you like it that way. So we have a lot to do, we have some agenda points that are ahead of us, trust the government, budget, something that is extremely important to this country, and don't you stop all of that. Is it because you're not ready to discuss these points of the agenda? Is that because the budget isn't over yet? It's such an impression here that you wish we weren't working on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7763	There is no breach of Rules of Procedure, no member of 27, no member of 104. It is the application of Article 103, and all MPs are obliged to talk about the agenda point, about what is on the agenda. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7764	Dear fellow Members of the People, Madam Chairman, you know that we love when you hold a session because you do what the opposition should do – in the best possible way you obstruct Parliament's work. I can't believe you're allowing yourself, because you've been a person who's been in that position for a long time, we've known you from that DOS period, a powerful DOS since 2000, that Mrs. Hope Kolundji from the scene gives you orders about what you should and how to do. I believe that you know this Rules of Procedure well, and I also believe that sometimes you break it out of december and indiscriminately. Good intentions can sometimes produce something evil, usually produce good, but evil can also come out. Out of evil intentions, there's always some evil, never good. Evil bears only evil, in politics as well as in life at all. You know Makiyaveli and his understanding of politics and that the goal justifies the means and that in politics and political life something that is morally different from ordinary life. In another sphere of life, we qualify as immoral, but if it's about politics, it can go away, it's moral. Why? Because usually politicians are called upon to some indefinite floscules, it can do it like this, and it can do it anyway. It can be in some greater interest, so we declare – the European Union is of higher interest, we must hurry to pass laws so that we can apply there and what I know... Or, in order for our future generations to live better, we now have to pass some laws urgently, and we have no idea what these laws really... We have a clue, but we pretend we don't know what kind of repercussions they're going to have on ordinary citizens and on those new generations. So, I would remind you to take care of how you treat the Serbian Radical Party. What you tried with the Serbian Radical Party along with your mentors, and now you and Tomislav Nikolic in the West, above all in the United States, who through Croatia and intelligence and the CIA are doing whatever they want here. Such a way and such a political life in the country is opposed only to the SRS. You underestimated us in 2000, when we were 23, kicked out, beaten, punished, we were gone for six months in the O.R., you did a lot of things, so the next election was completely different. I just want to remind you of something that I didn't say, but it's good to hear, as the Serbs convinced themselves 90 years ago at Kajmachalan, miracles are always possible, often likely and sometimes certain. Therefore, it is certain that the SRS will come out of all this as a winner, the people will recognize it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7765	Three minutes and 30 seconds. You did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, so I am unable to fulfil my duty to explain. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7766	The basis for reporting is correct, you've given him a good point, and the member who's injured is a member of the 27th, and I'm quoting him now, so I'm asking you not to include that time in my discussion about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Article 27 says: "The President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, and other tasks provided for by law and this Rules of Procedure. "So, in this article, I repeat again -- it takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I, Mrs. Komic, cannot give you any other provision of the Rules of Procedure that you have broken except this, because this provision of the Rules of Procedure is the widest of all meanings and covers all possible infringements that you can carry out when it comes to seeing you chair meetings of the National Assembly and when it comes to your seeing how you implement the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. You have just explained to one of the MPs why the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, in particular when it comes to the unauthorized interruption of Mr Krasic's speech, you said this - that you did not, in fact, realise then that there was an injury to Article 103 of position 1 by Zoran Krasic. That's what you said, you can take a stenogram and read it. If that's your explanation, then everything else you said today falls into the water, then it turns out that all of us who talked about your injuries to the Rules of Procedure were right. In that case, whether you admit it or not, whether you apologize to us as MPs or not, that fact remains. Although I don't have to ask you to apologize, it's completely pointless; based on the attitude you've taken, I would never get it, therefore, it doesn't matter. In any case, Article 103 states, "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. "Article 106 stimulates the chairman's right to interrupt the MP if he finds that what he is saying is not on the agenda, through a provision that says that the reminder is given to the MP who, despite the warning of the president of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. This means that it is necessary to first warn the MP of a violation of Article 103. A Rules of Procedure that says we have to talk about the agenda. If that warning does not bear fruit, he is warned. That's the meaning of the decree. This means that the president of the National Assembly is authorized by these provisions to interrupt the MPs in their speech. Otherwise, it is said in the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the MP, except in the case set out in this Rules of Procedure, must not be interrupted. Believe me, when it comes to what you have done in the case of the speech of Zoran Krasic, which is symptomatic of all other MPs, you have done this to me before, so I am reacting, not because of Zoran Krasic, obviously there were no elementary conditions to conclude that the MP did not speak in line with the agenda. You interrupted it against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and later during this little debate on the violation of the Rules of Procedure and admitted that there was no basis for it. As far as I'm concerned, this debate ends, and we can discuss later what it's like to run the National Assembly when you allow yourself to communicate with MPs sitting in benches, lead a monologue in front of TV cameras and everything else. So it's your right, but I don't think it's in favor of the work of this assembly. Please and I appeal to the other MPs to conclude this so that we can move to a debate on amendments, because I really have something to say and what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7767	No injured member 27. You just described the course of the session. So, just a reminder of Article 103: Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic is not mentioned, is not warned, and you have made excellent contact with Article 103 and Article 106, and have proved that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, so it is the chairman of the obligation to remind her. The presidency that would begin by breaking up the speaker and giving the warning is what I really find inappropriate. Of course, Zoran Krasic kept the agenda and explained why he did not accept the amendment until the end of his presentation. Sam interrupted the exposure when it was 14 minutes and 50 seconds. You can trust me or not, but if he kept on talking for 16 minutes because I interrupted him, as you are now, without reminding me that three minutes and 30 seconds, he spoke for four minutes because you quoted the Rules of Procedure. So Article 103 obliges all of us to talk about the agenda. Article 106 speaks of measures to be applied by the chairman if Article 103 does not apply, Article 27 obliges me to take care of the application of Article 103. National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). I thank the MPs for clarifying the application of Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7768	Article 27 and Article 104. Unfortunately, we're not clear. What you're doing... Really, it's the first time I've felt uncomfortable here. All that has been said so far by the MPs has only been in favour of one thing, and that is to interrupt these dialogues with you, to admit that you have made a mistake, that you have interrupted the Serbian Radical Party's MP during his speech. The man really talked about the amendment and tried to link it to one situation. Whether you or I like the situation, that's another question, but the man tried to connect and he did it, and you broke it in half of the sentence. I would ask the president, first of all, of the MEPs for European Serbia to pay a little more attention to this. You will later say that the opposition is obstructing the work of the Assembly. This is a direct obstruction of the work of the Assembly by the chairman. I'm afraid there's something else behind this; there's a violation of the law by the government, the Budgetary System Act. All the time you've been trying to stall the budget to get to the MPs, to leave us so little time that we can't do the amendments well. The government broke the law. You will try to justify it, as the finance minister tried to justify that violation of the law. We have a large number of amendments here. Today we see in the press, yesterday, the position is constantly circulating that the opposition does not have to talk about all the amendments that we have submitted to these 14 laws, so that we can discuss at the next session of the government's trust, so that everything else can arrive on the agenda. Look how much time we lost, surely 45 minutes, at what the chairman was trying to convince the MPs that she hadn't broken the Rules of Procedure. Or we can't even say that she broke the Rules of Procedure as much as she broke the MP without any need and told him that she had to speak according to the subject, i.e. in accordance with the amendment. That's what he did. It's no big deal to admit a mistake. I made a mistake. Let's move on. Everyone is ready to move on, and Mr Aligrudic said he is eager to talk about his view of this amendment and all the other MPs want to talk about the amendments, which is why we have submitted them. But this way, Mrs. Kolundjia, only the MPs of the opposition are irritated, for no reason whatsoever. Mrs. Komic is now telling me behind my back, what you said – of course. But Mrs. Comić hasn't done it all these 45 minutes, but she's trying to explain to us that she's acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. She failed to comply with the Rules of Procedure, unnecessarily interrupted the opposition's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7769	I agree with MP Dragan Todorovic. In an attempt to move to the agenda, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji is well-intentioned to remind the MPs that they are right when they ask for an injury to the Rules of Procedure. Neither the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji nor any other People's MP can force me to vote instead of the People's Messenger who utters the violation of the Rules of Procedure; it is up to the People's Messenger to declare whether he wants to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure or not. Does MP Slobodan Maraš want to vote? Yeah. ) He wants to vote in the voting day on whether the injured Rules of Procedure was when MP Zoran Krasic, with a reminder of Article 103 and the obligation to all talk about the agenda, continued his presentation. Is that the reason? National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7770	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 104. You violated the dignity of the National Assembly when you failed to apply the Rules of Procedure and did not warn the head of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, Mrs. Nada Kolundji, that he could not throw out of office. I must remind you that a month ago, you took away your word from me at the chair table. First you gave me a warning at the time I said that Marko Milenkovic was not Dragan Zivkov (which is obvious, at the moment Zivkov is not in the O.R. but they are really different), but the next time you gave me... I immediately took out 3,000 dinars, put it there and told you – here you go, as well as Mr Krasic. The next time you gave me a second warning when I asked you, who is this man, because there was a man sitting on my right hand, some individual, I really don't know who this is, in the seat of the vice president of the assembly. Then you took away my word when I told you that people in the O.R. react with justice because of your explanation that lasts five or six minutes, or whatever. I'm glad, Mr Batic, that you've returned to the scene of a restored multi-party in Serbia. You and Mr. Kostunica, Draško Petrovic, his brother Mirko etc. You sat there and there was probably intention, like us 73, at the time, Serbian radicals, and before that, only one, Professor Vojislav Seselj, to start developing democracy in this building, which the communists buried eight meters below. Where are we after 18 years? We're still in the basement, eight meters below ground level, but we're digging up more and more, because the vice president of the Assembly abuses the Rules of Procedure, the head of the ruling parliamentary group, throws it away. And not only that, I pray you, what good is her intention: just a moment ago, out of pure peace, not caused by anything, the woman says to the chairman – well, put it to the vote; like, whether she hurt the Rules of Procedure or not. Well, it's not a market, it's not a market, so we'll do it one way or the other. How did you come up with the idea, I followed closely, to tell my colleague Krasic, to interrupt him in the middle of the exposure? He is not only impressed by this assembly, he is known to the entire public, and the Hague public is known, since he is the chief legal adviser of Professor Vojislav Seselj in the process against him, and the international public, as a man who has the fastest possible legal interpretation. Zoran Krasic?- I'm sorry. Well, there's no bird on a branch that doesn't know, little kids who think about what they're gonna be when they grow up, that he's got legal science in his little finger. And you're telling him that he, Zoran Krasic, has not bound the amendment under the law to arrange the courts with something that has to do with the law! I really can't figure out how such nonsense could have occurred to you, and you can question yourself. It is not nice, Mrs. Comic; as when children rat in school to a teacher, a messenger throws away, a messenger of the people, this, a messenger of the people. You know no one in class likes kids who rat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7771	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the proposed amendment, I would like to ask Mrs Kolundjia if she may be familiar with the provisions of Article 292. The Code of Criminal Procedure? In Article 291, chapter 22 stands – the main search is public. The main search can be attended by adult faces. The persons attending the main search cannot enter weapons or dangerous weapons except for the defendant who may be armed. Article 29: "From the opening of the sitting to the conclusion of the main search may, at any time on official duty or at the request of the parties, always after their hearing, exclude the public for the entire main search or part thereof, if necessary for the purpose of keeping secrets, protecting public order, protecting morals, protecting the interests of minors or protecting the personal or family life of the accused or damaged. "Article 293, item 1: "The disfellowshipping of the public does not apply to parties damaged, their representatives and defenders. "So it is that the acceptance of the amendments, as announced by Mrs Kolundji, would be in direct contrast and in collapsing with the provisions of Articles 291, 293, 292, 294. So please bear in mind the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. If it were literally understood that it was necessary to declare that the trial was public... I'm glad, there's Mrs. Minister, there's a lawyer, there's former Minister Mr. Batic, who can interpret these provisions as well. I would not go into it, nor boast, but I interpret this as a long-standing lawyer and lawyer, or former minister of justice, because in 2000 we were working on the provisions of this Code of Criminal Procedure which is now in force, and its application is being prepared, as the minister announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7773	People's MP, you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Todorovic insists that the minister has been informed. You know that MP Petar Jojic wanted to talk about injury 226. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: It points to that. ) Please refer to the members of the 225 and 226, in writing to the one you want a notice from. You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? You have just violated all the provisions on the right to receive words under Article 100(1). So you abused the Rules of Procedure. You got your word. I couldn't take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and you abused the wording procedure. Now you want a word? National MP Petar Jojic is given the floor under Article 100(1) because he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7774	Madam Chairman, allow me to prove that this is not a matter of injury to some Rules of Procedure... (President: People's MP, you can't get a word based on Article 100(1) if it's not an injury. ) On the basis of Articles 225 and 226, to ask a question...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7775	No, you can't get the word. On the occasion of the notice you are interested in, you will contact the authority and the organisation you are asking for a notice. You have no word, MP. Members of 225 and 226, relating to the rights and responsibilities of Members of Parliament, shall mean that you receive the notice on your own, because that is the notice you are interested in. Please allow me to give you my word on the basis of Article 100, not in the first sentence to say that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a word on what you're reporting to say there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to call upon the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which makes you the chairman, do not take part in the violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, a member of the 100th requires that an injury be done. You go out for a pay phone and you say, no injuries, there's a misunderstanding, and I'm obliged to tell you that you don't have the grounds to get the word. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7776	Mrs. Comic, you are widely known, I have told you many times, as a campeic woman. You need to talk from that place, talk, talk. But I don't know what's going on with you today. You are a permanent violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Comic, if it is the ruling majority's intention to obstruct the work of parliament, then do it a little more elegantly, don't let everything be on your back. When you go outside the hall, when the press is waiting for you, I don't know how you're going to explain to them whose order you've been obstructing parliament today, because what you're doing is obstruction of the radparliament. When MPs speak according to the Rules of Procedure, it is not an obstruction of Parliament's work, although you sometimes try to turn it around, but when you, completely without a basis in the Rules of Procedure, hold a monologue for a few minutes for every MP who comes out here to speak, then it is obviously deliberate delay, obstruction, because you don't know what you're going to do with a network of courts because you're stuck like a chicken in a house. You don't know what you're going to do about breaking the Constitution, you've announced to all the bells that you're going to re-election all the judges. Now you realize how wrong it is and you're trying to get out of it, and you don't know how. A moment ago, you tried to tell Mr. Jojic that members of 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure require that the MP address someone in writing. Mrs. Comic, I asked you an hour ago, from the scene, to read where it says what you were saying. Now, I ask you to read that the MP cannot address it through parliament, or through the President of Parliament or the President of Parliament, to request notices directly from this place at the time when the MP and his MP group assess that this is current, that it is necessary, that it is necessary for him to perform the function of the MP. Where does it say you have to be addressed in writing and waited 103 years to get an answer to that question? Mrs. Komic, don't tell us in advance that you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. You're playing with these rules of procedure. It is for all the MPs, even for the chairman, the holy letter, regardless of how bad he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7777	People's MPs, by looking at the stenogram, you will see that my suggestion to speak in writing after MP Petar Jojic did not say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured when he received his word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Todorovic has dropped the suspicions from his discussion that they are members of 225 and 226. The fact is that he abused the Rules of Procedure in that report, that he did not say which member was injured, that he received a word without a basis. And in the name of tolerance and in the name of custody on the application of the Rules of Procedure, it is said to address it in writing, as I also believe that the MP should receive all notices. Your announcement after that... By looking at the stenogram, you will see that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure in my communication with MP Petar Jojic. His second announcement began with a sentence – no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. My concern for the application of the Rules of Procedure means that it is given beyond the agenda and according to the law of the councilman who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. When an MP comes out for a pay phone and says no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, that's what the stenogram says, I'm obliged to say there's no basis for him to get his word. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7778	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says -- the president of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for by the Constitution, chaired by the National Assembly sessions, sees the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Komic, I must tell you that I personally have a lot of sympathy for how you conduct the meetings of the Assembly. I have to tell you that you are an unwitting part of the work you are doing for the MPs of the opposition, but I must warn you of one thing, Mrs. Komic, I think you are the victim of a joint venture to obstruct the Assembly, precisely because they know which way you work, or you are leading the Assembly. I have no doubt at all in your good intentions, you are making a huge effort to explain to the Rules of Procedure every MP who has come out for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Whether you're doing it or not, to put it aside now, it's personal to me. A few facts suggest that you are the victim: first of all, tossing out the head of the ZES parliamentary group that suggests you, completely unsuspecting, what you do. You can only work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The second thing, which is why I am sure that you are the victim of this joint venture: yesterday, in talks with the heads of parliament's groups, they tried to agree on a session where parliamentary issues would be held before a session on the government's non-confidential vote – too transparent, a cheap trick – counting that MPs in their parliamentary issues would more or less bring out everything they had, to the greatest extent, and to say the moment when a question of confidence is raised on the agenda. When we saw it and said it was out of the question, the first thing that was scheduled, and only after that, when you didn't respect it before, how suddenly, do you remember just now? That tells me enough that it's scheduled for today's session to be obstructed. Look, we started, totally in line with the agenda and the amendments, saying things that we think we should say, that your way (I'm not saying deliberately, simply you run the assembly) would provoke us to go out for a pay phone. I apologize for this overrun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7779	People's MP, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, I repeat, I am obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. As far as Articles 103 and 106 are concerned, it is clarified. As for parliamentary issues, the decision was made when we adopted the agenda of this, the third session. A decision has been made and it has been voted to ask parliamentary questions after the end of all points of the agenda. It is a decision that I will always be happy to vote for, because I believe that every session of the National Assembly should be completed at the point of parliamentary matters, as this third one will be completed, after the debate is over, and after the decision has been made. People's MPs get that there's no agenda. When we voted on the adoption of the agenda, you can see it in a stenogram, the president said that after the agenda points were finished, the parliamentary issues would be held. I would like to thank you for your applause for supporting the MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Parliament Club. National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7780	Of course, Mrs. Komic, members 104, 225th and 226th. Now some things, ladies and gentlemen, are beginning to become clear. We have been criticising, even angry with Mrs. Comic, as chairman, and it turns out that Mrs. Comic is not at all guilty, that Leopold, in the image of the president of the DS parliamentary group, Forward Serbia, Serbia in Europe, is actually conducting from here how Mrs. Comic will behave. Here, on my own behalf, Mrs. Comic, I apologize for being angry with you so far, because it wasn't you, it was Mrs. Kolundzija. He is also guilty of those warnings you have given me, and he is guilty of the interruptions when not only me, but also of all the MPs of the SRS, he is guilty of these long stories, discussions and explanations, for she has commanded you how you will behave. I'm sorry, I'm going to watch Mrs. Kolundji react from now on, so I'm going to talk to her, and I'm going to blame her from now on. And not just me, all the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. Please don't explain this to us, it makes you feel evil, believe me. I have a feeling she's, like, jealous because you're sitting here, so she wants to take your shift, but that's what you're gonna do at the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7781	There is no violation of Article 104, MP, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has not violated any of the views in Article 104. Do you want a detailed explanation, or do you understand, when anger passed you? The MP says he wants an explanation after the session. Unfortunately, he can't, he has to attend the session, it's a duty under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milan Lapcevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1), so MP Petar Jojic, MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7782	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting to Article 27 and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I believe, first of all, that you do not lead the Assembly properly, and by Article 104, to insult the dignity of the MPs of the people. For exactly an hour and 15 minutes, you keep trying, in addition to all the warnings and reactions of the opposition MPs who want to point out how to lead the Assembly, to explain how you are right, and we are all wrong. I respect that quality of yours that you are very persistent, not to say stubborn, but it is simply amazing that after every completion of the presentation of any MP, you, per mantra - have not broken Article 27, then explain three minutes that it has not been broken and that you are obliged to hold a session of the National Assembly and that, according to certain members, you have the right to comment on everyone's presentation. I really don't understand. I hope that Mr. Jugoslav Ćosic and all the other leaders of the political shows watched this afternoon's session and that they saw what it was actually intervening, whether it is the opposition who wants to obstruct the work of the Assembly or whether you have provoked all MPs of the opposition to tell you that this is not the way you should do it and that there is no reason for each time by commenting and repeating the mantras to provoke a new MP to report here. I really don't understand why you're doing this. You keep trying to prove something that's unproven. That's the worst way to insult the intelligence of every MP, telling him that black is something that's white. What's that, what's the background of that? Is the background that you can't put together a budget? Is the background that you keep saying that only one law in a set of European laws that is needed will be passed by the end of the year, but that is why it is necessary to prepare the public in advance for the opposition to obstruct parliament, and therefore only one law? Tell us what the mediate is. Mrs. Kolundjia, you have other vice presidents from your majority, so they can start running this parliamentary session so we can work on the agenda points and on the amendments that we have submitted. Mrs. Comic, please tell me that when I finish the presentation, you say that no injured member is 27th and that you comment on my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7783	People's MP, I would like to direct you to the reading of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 100. The MP requesting to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure shall be given the floor under Article 100(1). The chairman is obliged to explain whether the injury occurred or not. If the chairman agrees that there's been an injury, then of course there's no explanation. If the chairman disagrees and feels that the injury has not occurred, then he is obliged to give you an explanation. So, I'm taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I'd like us all to do it together. Then every session would run through the Rules of Procedure. Since you asked me to make a statement, I think I said, and as far as Article 103 is concerned, talk about the agenda, relating to Article 106, it is the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the custody of order in the National Assembly. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7784	Articles 225 and 226. Madam Chairman, we should overcome this situation and continue working under normal conditions. It should not be allowed for any delay or conflict to occur on any side, for this does not lead to anything. First of all, it will depend on you a lot on how the session is going to run. When you just took my word and turned off the microphone, when you said that I said there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure, one of my colleagues threw, "Oh, it hurts the Rules of Procedure." You didn't let me finish my sentence. So it's a clear misunderstanding. I asked for a notice, within the meaning of Articles 225 and 226, whether Mrs Kolundji was familiar with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which were regulated in Chapter 22, in the provisions of Article 22. 291, 292, 293, and 294, and only for the reason that I believe that there can be no mistake in adopting amendments that, in any case, will lead to problems in the application of the law, in practice. There are respected lawyers here, there are lawyers. Mr. Novakovic, Vice-President of the Assembly, is a longtime lawyer and can explain to you whether there will be problems in the application of this law if an amendment to Article 7 was adopted. So that's where I wanted to talk, because it might be that we misrepresent a standard that can in practice represent a brake and create problems for judges when running major searches. That was my intention. I had no intention of any other matter, nor of complicating or creating a certain atmosphere that does not lead to the work of Parliament. Therefore, we seek to correct every text of the bill, wherever we can, to indicate that this law, like other laws, can be applied in practice without being contrary to basic laws, primarily the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I had no other intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7785	National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7786	I will discuss it on the basis of Article 104 - violation of the congregation’s dignity. The dignity of the assembly is always injured when you chair. I suggest an experiment. Give any other vice president to lead this assembly, I guarantee there will be no such situation. So you're harassing us here. I asked you last week, when we had a similar situation, not to do so. It's just not healthy. Thanks to this obstruction of yours, given what's ahead of us and how many amendments, we'll probably be working late tonight. So you're deliberately exorcising the MPs. Whether it was given to you by someone for the job or not, I absolutely don't care. You don't behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Believe me, this is what citizens are watching, what you're doing is pathology. You've dispersed all your MPs. The people went away, fled, fled in the congregation. It's probably an integral part of the coalition agreement that they can't answer your questions, otherwise, you irritate them, it's seen in their faces. So, I suggest you leave that chair, that anyone else presides and there won't be any problems, not after we suffer criticism from the famous visionary of Minister Djelic that this assembly is a black hole. This assembly isn't a black hole, but apparently some vice presidents are the black hole of this House. Think about it, don't harass us and don't put us in such a sick situation. Let the MPs work. There was no problem until you moved into that place and suddenly we have a situation now that, I don't know, two or three hours you want to burn with the MPs. So if we were to recalculate the time you've been discussing in the last month, you've taken this House two or three working days. It's a fact, and you don't feel any responsibility. Once again I appeal to you, allow Mrs. Juditi Popovic, allow Mr. Nikola Novakovic, Natasa Jovanovic, to allow anyone to chair and guarantee you that these problems will not be. The head of the parliamentary group has escaped from the O.R. And you managed to drive her away. I really don't know how long we're gonna work like this. So, once again, please stop doing this, let someone who is doing this job do more casually and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure do this job. Otherwise, we'll live to work till early in the morning tonight. I guess it's clear to everyone that you can't work 16 hours a day, that it's not good for health to work so late. It's all because of your presidency.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7787	There's no breach of Article 104. It is about the application of Rules of Procedure 103 – the MP must talk about the agenda – and 106, which is about the reminder of the obligation to apply the Article 103. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic. I apologize, MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the amendment to Article 7.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7788	Let's clear up the misunderstanding. I'm reporting for amendment to article 7, Stefan Zankov. That amendment reveals some of the things I would point to here. First of all, the amendment itself is technically revealing a serious failure in the way the draft provision of article 7 applies to the public. First I will read how it was proposed, then I will read the amendment, then I will comment on the fact that the head of the ZES parliamentary group here pointed out that the ruling coalition will stand behind this amendment. Therefore, the proposed Article 7 of the Law states: "The debate before the court is public and can only be limited by law, in accordance with the Constitution. "It's at first sight... It's not clear to me how those who wrote the law and gave it to the minister before he went to the board of directors and the government themselves, they didn't see what this sentence looked like. She doesn't say anything. So, "The hearing in front of the court is public," that's one part of the sentence, and then it goes, "and it can only be limited by law." What can be limited by law? Controversy? The public? You don't know that from this sentence. So when I saw Stefan Zankov's amendment, which explained this one incoherent sentence in two that sounded too high, I thought it might be logical. I'm just talking about the grammatical aspect of this article, and we'll essentially talk about it later. So his amendment reads as follows: "The hearing before the court is public". The second part of the sentence says, "The public can only be limited by law, in accordance with the Constitution." It seems too much, so now, instead of one incomparable sentence of the bill, we have a proposal to replace it with two relatively excessive sentences, grammatically logical, correct and in its content meaningful. It's about the proposal and the amendment. We had a discussion about all this. Mr. Stefan Zankov came out and said something about his amendment, said something a little wider than the amendment itself, talking about the very text of the law, and I thought what I'm talking about right now didn't explain well. However, everyone's right, and even the author, the author of the amendment, to explain his amendment in the way he wants to. That's no problem. Then the president of the ZES parliamentary group came out and said, I cannot quote, I did not take a stenogram but I will paraphrase, next – that the ruling coalition will accept this amendment. Then she said she would accept it for the reason that it's clear to everyone that the court's work is necessary to the public, something like that, but that's what she said, so we'll take a stenogram and we'll look at it. Then another miracle occurs unseen: the vice president of the National Assembly, who is from the LDP otherwise, comes out, and talks about how glad she is that this amendment will be accepted, for the same reasons. The most beautiful please – this does not apply to Mr Zankov, nor to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, primarily to Mrs Nada Kolundji and to the minister who is present here because they represent the ruling coalition, one in parliament, and the other in the government of the Republic of Serbia itself – agree with yourself what you wanted here. So it's one thing for others who have not submitted the amendment or failed to participate in lawmaking to make a little mistake, so they don't understand what it's all about, to forgive them. But that the head of the ruling coalition's parliamentary group doesn't know what it's about, and that he's forgiven, that's hard to do. What's public here? It is not disputed that the debate can be made public, so there is a real term of "public debate", as this indicates that the principle of public in some process, whether it is administrative or judicial proceedings, implies, first of all, in the part of the debate, respecting the debate in principle. Here is another question when it comes to the original text of the bill – what is the public in the process? Here is one of our predecessors in his presentation on the amendment (unfortunately, this is the same one of our predecessors whose presentations, namely the reaction of the chairman of the entire gungull about the infringement of the Rules of Procedure,) quoted what is said in Article 32(3). The Constitution. Article 32(3) The Constitution, when it comes to the public, speaks of a kind of judicial procedure, above all about criminal proceedings, because these are provisions of the Constitution that treat human rights. Of course, the public of the human rights proceedings is extremely important. However, I cannot understand how it is possible for the president of the ZES parliamentary group, the largest group of the ruling coalition, to come out and say that the amendment (I repeat, which makes sense because it has a meaningless provision of Article 7) will accept it because it is obvious that we need the public. I ask you most nicely, if you are already writing ridiculous provisions in the bill, if you are already forced to accept a relatively meaningful amendment that corrects one nonsense of that provision, then it would be fairer for one who comes out on behalf of the ruling coalition to say that he will accept it and say why it is accepted. Don't replace the thesis. Don't talk about how the amendment to Stefan Zankov brought the public into the judiciary. That's not true. This amendment by Stefan Zankov does not introduce any principle to the work of the court at all. There is a debate in principle and the debate can be limited. There's a debate in the law that limits things by nature. The outsider procedure is not in itself an argument; there is no debate. Is there a public in the outsider procedure? There may be. Where do you regulate that? With the constitution? No, I don't. In other words, if we are already talking about the public in this bill, then it should have been one systematic and valid working chapter, not as it is written, or should not have existed, but rather referred to the provisions of the Constitution that regulate matter in that domain in which this matter is precisely regulated when it comes to the protection of human rights and to the provisions of the law on procedures to regulate the issue of the public, when it comes to certain procedures, as it has, of course, been. Of course it is necessary to accept this amendment, because it is unsustainable that such a meaningless formulation stands in this text of the bill. But if the proposed amendment is already accepted, then it is better to expose the rationale of this acceptance by the ruling coalition in a pretext and normal way, to explain why it is necessary to accept this amendment which, again I say, is too much written in relation to the non-substantial provision. It would have been even better if we had heard the acceptance of that amendment from the Government of the Republic of Serbia i.e. from the minister. I ask one question, which may be excessive, and I ask it to you, Madam Minister: do you think this amendment by Stefan Zankov should be accepted? Should I accept it or not? We heard the position of the president of the ruling coalition's parliamentary group that sees that it should be accepted, and that woman doesn't know why, she can't explain it. Can you explain to us whether this amendment by Stefan Zankov should be accepted? Does the Government accept this amendment or not? Or the government thinks it should remain a provision in a law that reads like this, I repeat for anyone who is a lawyer, and who is not going to convince his colleagues, friends, relatives, lawyers how this sounds: "The debate before the court is public and can only be limited by law, in accordance with the Constitution." What can be limited, debate, public debate? What can be limited here? So that's amazing. Therefore, I ask you most nicely to answer the question here, extremely clearly and decadently, does the Government accept the amendment of Stefan Zankov and, if it accepts it, why accept it? The government accepts him? Let's hear it, maybe Hope doesn't accept it, maybe Hope accepts it, and she doesn't know why she accepts it. It is very important that if we participate in the debate on amendments, the bill, that we respect our fellow Members and all of us to respect each other, at least to the extent that we know what we're talking about. If we even know that, then we can differ in attitudes, we can say whether this provision has room here or not, whether it can be formulated differently or not. Let's at least respect each other and know what we're talking about. If an amendment by the ruling coalition is accepted, someone on behalf of that ruling coalition should say - sorry, we accept the amendment and we know why we accept it and the reasons are you, you and you. At least respect us so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7789	The right to replica on the basis of Article 101, based on direct reference, is a national letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7790	The President-in-Office, Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I came out to talk about the amendment in question, I specifically pointed out that I had come forward without knowing that Mrs Nada Kolundji would plead as she had declared herself. Therefore, we from the Liberal Democratic Party have supported the amendment because I have made such a statement. You know how, you rightly have two ways to communicate with the court, as far as the public is concerned, and all in the field of law and legal science: you can say a lot of words without saying anything, and you can only say a few too many sentences and explain everything. I specifically defined myself when I explained why we think, as LDP, that this amendment should be adopted - the right to a fair trial... Otherwise, this is highlighted to you in Article 32(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution and we do not believe that it is necessary to impose a special weight on that member of the proposed law and - in accordance with the Constitution, because that term, this formulation, gives special weight to that member of the law. So we can hit a lot, but it's important that we hit exactly. In this case, the key thing is a fair trial, and this fair trial guarantees the Constitution. Therefore, there is no reason not to install it in this member of the bill. I found it appropriate to replicate, because in some context my personality was mentioned, that, as vice president of the assembly, I was discussing this amendment and that it was not quite understood what I was going to say. The point is, I just did it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7791	Mr. Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7792	I find the session will continue to be normal. I'm asking you a question about Articles 104, 225 and 226. First of all, Mr. Vice President, you certainly understand that because you are an expert, top-notch lawyer, long-term, experienced; you can understand, because you too will find yourself in a position to apply these provisions and to call in your future practice if you continue to engage in your profession. Madam Minister, I request a notice on who authorized the MP to accept the amendments in advance on behalf of the Government. As far as I know, that right belongs only to you, in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The head of the ZES Parliament Club has no right to pass you and past the government accept amendments and make such statements as may harm your bill. Namely, it was a scandal. If this amendment were to be accepted, what is new here and corrected by this amendment in the text of the law? Absolutely nothing, it's already disrupting its system and its definition as norms. You have in your proposed article 7: "The hearing before the court is public". The amendment promoter says, "The hearing before the court is public." That's the first attitude. You continue in your proposal: "and can only be limited by law, in accordance with the Constitution". The applicant for the amendment reiterates the words that are unnecessary in the norm, he says, "The public can only be limited by law, in accordance with the Constitution. "He prescribes your decree, your standard. Who's gonna accept that? And if things were even uglier, if Hope Kolundji had accepted this amendment, then you would have the following sentence: "The public can only be limited by law." Who is it that can understand this norm - just? Mr. Aligrudic told you and explained what the public was and he was right. I think this standard is... Although it can cover certain views, those principles cannot be corrected, and legal opinions. So the point is that this amendment has no logic, no possibility of being applied. Before this, it should remain in the law, although the law should state the provisions in which proceedings, whether in criminal, litigation or non-parisan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7793	By amendment, Mr. Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7794	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, is a very interesting situation regarding this amendment, that is, the whole situation that has been further completed by the head of the ZES parliamentary group. We have a very complicated situation. The amendmentr tried to make this member of the law more clear in some way, namely to bring it into line with the Constitution, trying to explain in his explanation that it is very incorrect if such a member of the law remains. The government has rejected this amendment, which is very debatable. In my opinion, if this is a linguistic error, i.e. meaningful, or whatever, Mr. Jojic mentioned earlier that there was twice the word "only" in the amendment, it could have referred him to some sort of correction, etc. You refused that amendment. In the explanation that you rejected it, you say that an unnecessary further precision of that provision is proposed by the amendment. Now we're in a very strange situation. A moment ago, with a colleague from the DSS, we concluded that the first five or six amendments submitted by the opposition, i.e. the first five or six amendments submitted to the first members of this bill, the government accepted, which is very interesting. If you accept the first amendments to the first members, you are, in fact, in my opinion, thus proving that this law is written in haste or that you are aware that you have miswritten it. The emissaries are getting it. Mr Novakovic, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, should not be allowed to be dropped by MPs. But since I heard what was said, of course the government should accept any amendment that is meaningful, which amends the law, which is in accordance with the law. The government did it this time, but I'm asking a question - what does it say about the bill? Of course, we are pleased to have adopted a number of LDP amendments and other opposition parties, and the party of power, that what we have delivered has been carefully read and no apriors have been rejected. But as one colleague throws away, if this amendment is interpreted like this, it is obvious that it has not been read at all. I'd like you to plead. One colleague has already asked, more specifically, counterpart Aligrudic, to say whether the government, since you said you did not accept this amendment, would change its mind, because indeed this amendment corrects this member of the law, in fact, makes it clearer. I am pleased that the ruling majority, i.e. the head of the ZES parliamentary group, has seen it, so she brought it out here to accept it. As precise as she was or not in the situation in which she accepted this amendment, that is the second question. Afterwards, Vice-President of the Judita Popovic Assembly said the LDP welcomes such an amendment, which really corrects this completely unclear 7th article, which turns out that the debate before the court can be limited. We've really lost a lot of time when it comes to this amendment. If the Minister finds it appropriate to comment, it would be fine. If not, we believe that what the head of Parliament's Group for European Serbia said is right, it will accept. But we would like to understand why there is such a difference; yet, so far it has been a practice for all that the government refuses to refuse and the ruling majority. It would be interesting to hear. Okay, maybe there's an example that confirms the rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7795	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? You don't have time for the amendment, and by the Rules of Procedure, that's how you interpret it. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Ragush Marina.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7796	We probably didn't understand each other, so I'm reporting on the basis of Article 226 because I found out that we spent on this amendment a little while ago, and it's really necessary (I'm referring to Mr. Maraš's discussion) to ask Mrs. Minister for an explanation. Given that we understand that this reformed, in perspective, system of justice should begin to function from 1 January 2010, which means that it is true, we are only interested in what urgency in the adoption of the entire justice system. Perhaps in another way, a little more thorough and more detailed, we could approach that, and this amendment has shown this situation. Also, the Serbian Radical Party came into possession of certain knowledge a few days ago, related to the dual citizenship of judges in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which denied us the possibility of explaining by amendment one member of another law on judges and now we have a problem, and we just wanted to make that member a little clearer. What I really wanted to ask you to do is this opportunity (I asked for the previous day), but I doubt that we will come to that explanation through this protocol -- so we need data on how much the judge really owns dual citizenship, performs a judicial function, especially when it comes to the citizenship of countries in the immediate environment. This is necessary for us to take part in the debate on the specifics of the law that regulates the area. I think that's what I'm telling you right now, we have a problem because no one has ever noticed a single misunderstanding that can in the field, in practice, lead to certain problems. Thank you in advance. I suppose you can get to that information before we get to this side, because really deadlines are undefined, unfortunately, it takes a month, two, three, and the law passes, so I thank you in advance for this clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7797	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 11th and all other members of the bill, in which the words "economic appeals" appear, were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7798	Mr. Todorovic, Mrs. Kolundzija would rather change her hair color than accept my amendment. She hates me, you see for yourself. Because of this hatred for me, she is able to eliminate the entire SRS parliamentary group. She's angry, you see, there's something going on. Let's start with this amendment. Considering that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a member of 7. The bill said the debate before the court could be limited, I took it seriously. In translation it means – you from the Judges' Society remember well, you who expect re-election even better remember, the debate before the Court must not be. It's a message from the government of Mr. Cvetkovic. You see for yourself how this has been done, even the MPs of the government, such as Konstantinovic and others, had to submit amendments and amend this bill. And I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 to fix it, if it can be fixed, given that it is the wrong concept. So, you Judges' Society remember, the debate before the court will be forbidden. Take care of re-election. As the sun warms us up with this and this stupid Democratic Party, we've got new democratic standards: so, you can vote from Thessaloniki, you can vote from Bodrum; when you arrest, 13,000 pieces are free to do, there's no problem; the state of emergency can always be introduced. These are all democratic standards. Take care if anyone takes your democratic standards seriously. Article 11. The bill regulates... After the Balinovac, everyone accepted the manners and placed a title above the member of the law; not the big title for the whole chapter, but each member has its own written. Article 11 has the title - Courts of the Republic of Serbia, and in several positions it regulates the names of courts of general jurisdiction and courts of special jurisdiction. Of course, we as the SRS do not accept this concept, we have set out in the principle debate why we do not accept such division, names and hierarchy of courts of general jurisdiction and courts of special jurisdiction under this concept. It refers, therefore, to the basics, more, the appeals, the variants with the economics, the variants with the misdemeanor and this variant with the administrative court. Now I don't want to go back to it, it's a big concept disagreement, but in order for the draft law not to be so wrong, so there's no mistake, it's all dried up, although we're on a good track to be -- it's dried up after the Democratic Party, because what they get dryed up, we've tried to teach them a little bit to apply their logic consistently. We've calculated, they've got some logicists, I guess some lectures do, that there's some logic, but we can see that there's no such thing, there's a leak. When he gets stuck, he makes it happen and the job is done. This government wrote... And now I doubt what they've written because they've given an explanation about the amendment to Article 7 why they don't accept it. Here, now you see how it was about the amendment to Article 7, he says, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the formulation of Article 7. The bill is clear enough," the government said, there is no public debate, "so there is no need to further specify that provision in a manner proposed by the amendment. "Then Hope Kolundji jumps and says – no, this precision is necessary because what the government wrote is not clear enough. When we read the explanation why you refused my amendment, I'm just shaking. Is it still true what you wrote? Here's what Mr. Cvetkovic's high opinion government wrote (probably Vojkan Simic did this explanation to you, we kicked him out of the courts, so you know, and you received him), he says: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the term 'economic appeal court', which is more correct in the bill. "In order for something to be right or wrong, there has to be something else like the etalon, the unit measures the value. However, regularity can also be an aesthetic criterion; it can in some ways also apply to the emotional state, but you know for yourself, tastes are not discussed. I like candy, Zaka likes salt, I like to convince him -- eat sweet, he says -- brother, I don't like salt, I like to eat the end of the story. It's like loving, you know, cooperative egoism. Now, after 20 or 30 years of marriage to ask you why this woman is yours, a man can't answer. Well, emotional condition. That's how the government suits me, he says - we don't accept the amendment because of the emotional state that was at that moment in the government. You just didn't understand me, Mr. Todorovic, when I said this couldn't go away since Hope hated me. So if it were a different emotional state, what I suggested would be accepted. This is what our democracy has given us – Zoran Zivkovic for the Field Marshal. That's what happened, people, what to do. So if we go from the logic that exists in the draft law on the regulation of courts, that logic can be expressed like this, I read what the Government wrote: "The courts of general jurisdiction are the basis of courts, higher courts, appeals courts and Supreme cassation court. "It is in the courts of general jurisdiction; there is a kind of graduation, not a graduation like when measuring the percentage of alcohol in roasted brandy, but there is some level, first level, second, third, fourth. To be even more precise, from the point of view of the court's jurisdiction, he's always second-degree, though, he appears some time and this county is second-degree, but some hierarchy exists. The hierarchy uses appropriate names and terms to show that it is a hierarchy. When it comes to courts of special jurisdiction, it is said like this, it is now avoiding the hierarchical schedule: Infringement courts, the Supreme Court. This is first-degree, this is second-degree. The difference, not only in jurisdiction, but in this terminology, is that this is a violation, and this is a higher offense. When it comes to business courts, they say this: business courts, and business appeals courts. To help them, I say that logic is a dangerous discipline, I said, economic courts, they're first-degree courts, and others are appeals-economy. So, you always put the level in first place, then the name of that court. They say it's right here to be like this. I thought it might have some reason to be economical, so that it wouldn't be appeals-economic, but to be economic-appellate, so it wouldn't look like what it was like for the offenders, because there's a misdemeanor, a higher offender. Then I started thinking, and why didn't they write a felony-higher? I don't want to caricate anything, I just want to go back to what I started when I went out for this pay phone. It's about hate and there's no other reason. Hate, even under Murphy's laws... You know, this isn't a linguistic problem, this is a mental-moral problem. The mental part is how polluted the environment is, so the lack of oxygen is not allowed to see what exists, and the morals for the simple reason why someone doesn't want to at any cost are disgusted by the fact that the amendment comes from the Serbian Radical Party. It's not news, it's not new behavior, it's something that's been going on since January 25, 2000. Everything the Serbian Radical Party suggests is anti-European, anti-civilisation, it goes towards isolation, it reflects primitiveism, pro-paintwork, reflects the fact that shoes of 200 euros are worn, not 500 euros, that they wear a 200-euro suit, not 2,000 euros, to drive a "jugic" and not a yacht, that this is not what the media like, and this is what the media worship. So again it's an emotional, psychosomatic state, that watershed that doesn't allow this pro-democracy, European... I don't know what epithet I'm going to use to describe that beauty that isn't transitory anymore, but it's fleeting. At the time, I was thinking that this wall on the left might understand something that is reasonable, that every one of my statements about the Democratic Party should start with the word "European", and that would be something like this: European Boris European Tadic, European and European Dragan European Gilas, Europeans together, stole European citizens of European Serbia together. I've been thinking about saying nice, beautiful, most beautiful, what the Vranians would say, and that, and the sixth -- European beauty. Everything is European with us, and even it does not smell European, but smells. So far away, and this wall of silence, goes and counts that the former "Idoli", media, Miki Rakic, police, "Cobra", CIA, BIA, DEA, Mea, will choose whatever name you want, which you want, to finish. And it will end, but it will not improve the position of Serbian citizens. Mr. Novakovic, you were probably justifiably absent from the National Assembly Hall yesterday. Of course, I am not angry if you do not accept the amendment, there is no need to accept it, but, Mr. Novakovic, I would ask you to ensure the presence of the ideologist of Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic's Democratic Party. It is possible that he is across the street, counseling Boris Tadic on these far-reaching moves, as he is a visionary, he looks away from Micunovic, it is possible. He promised you twice yesterday from this place that we would only discuss issues concerning the lives of Serbian citizens. Please call him, you have the police, if necessary, bring him in, and we'll start discussing life issues that plague our citizens. That's what our Democratic Party made it clear to us last night, promised that they wouldn't deal with the election, because they're winning everywhere, but they want to solve economic problems. We want to discuss, see if our citizens have money on savings in these banks and how risky it is to save in Serbia. Look, we have a banking system that is completely similar to the European system. That European has been pretty messed up, he's cracked. Citizens in Europe don't know what to do. This system multiples problems with us. We've had some here who say, "Citizens, feel free to go to savings." I don't know, I'm looking for an answer, if anyone can save in these banks or if they're going to go to an emergency to raise that money. We've seen, our system is reportedly not good, the European system is even worse. So, what do citizens do? Who guarantees them? The guarantee is that Boris Tadic is beautiful. Well, that's transitory, people. Where's the money? Are people going to lose money? You just refuse the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7799	Anyone else want to talk about article 11? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7800	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the regulation of courts, to Article 17(2). The bill of law, and I wanted to introduce the plural in that article. The government did not accept the proposal. Even if she hadn't accepted it, it wouldn't have changed so much in the law. There is also something good, which is that the request I made to the Committee on Justice and Administration on 14 October, in the interest of the citizens of our municipality, a request requiring a review of the proposal for a network of criminal courts, has been accepted as proposed. It was accepted to the satisfaction of the citizens of our community. In that request, I explained the needs of a court for violations in Kikinda, as the draft law envisioned the abolition of the court's misdemeanours. The request sets out a number of reasons to justify the existence of a misdemeanor court in Kikinda; I will not state these reasons now because there is no need, since the Ministry (or the Justice Committee) has accepted this. As for the amendment, whether it's going to be one or the plural, I think it'd be better for me, I'd be more stylishly arranged for a member if we were to replace it with the right words so that we could get the plural. The government thought differently and didn't accept it. Thank you. (SRS emissaries banging on benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7801	Thank you. The word for the amendment is Mr. Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I regret to say yes and agree with the government's explanation for the refusal of this amendment. Of course, you refused the amendment not because it doesn't have legal meaning or grounds, but because it's completely missed in the grammar sense. It shows an absolute ignorance of grammar. For reasons I won't go in, and in essence, the amendment's proposer wouldn't come in, so I wouldn't deal with it, at least not through this amendment. You see, Madam Minister, at this point, you are fortunate that Mrs. President of your Parliament group, Hope Kolundji, is not here. I have no doubt she would have come out, as she did before, and accepted this amendment. But I would not accept it because it makes sense, we have now found that it does not, but given the fact that it has been proposed by a group in this House whose legitimacy of residence in this parliament is most seriously challenged and challenged. This points to the fact that it is not only Gordana Comic in defenceless grapes, but all of you who are part of that political group or, to say the majority. You can and you don't have to this time, but it wouldn't be bad... I think now, through this amendment, we can objectively go back to the story of the amendment around which quite a large controversy has opened up here. I don't think it would be a bad idea for you to take more active participation and access to this story in the next period, when we discuss the amendments. You were just asked to express, state the government's relationship to the fact that a representative of the parliamentary group, or parliamentary majority, has accepted an amendment that has seriously, with several aspects, been questioned. So that it doesn't happen in the future, that you wouldn't be, as I said, in defenseless grapes, it wouldn't be a bad idea to get into this whole story a little more actively and that when we express our desire or need for you to give us the government's position to come out for this pay phone and say what your attitude is to certain amendments. Therefore, I would not be surprised if the government, or representative of the parliamentary majority, would come out and accept this amendment, given the origin of the amendment, not its essence and meaning, or the intention of the one who submitted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7803	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. Milan Veselinovic has a word, so Mr Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for the throat, the throat problem. By listening to the discussion of the set of the law on justice, especially this part of the court's regulation, the impression is that politics has gotten in the way here. In addition to all remarks made by MPs of opposition parties, in particular by the Serbian Radical Party, introducing the amendments we have proposed to improve this legislative project, I will address one issue, using Article 226. The Rules of Procedure and the presence of Ms. Minister, in connection with the order of the courts, i.e. the abolition of the City Court in Tutin. We have seen that in some smaller places the status of municipal courts has been maintained, and in Tutin the municipal court has been abolished, although we well know that the New Market judiciary, which covers the area, is a black hole in the judiciary and that there are accumulated problems, which are not solved, especially in the policy area. I think this move is not good, it will only burden the poor judiciary in the area anyway, and there are many crimes related to corruption, crime, smuggling, especially because it is located on the border with Montenegro and the administrative border with Kosovo and Metohija. The Minister may find time to go around that part, to see, to get into the essence of the judiciary in that area and to do something with the goal of improving the judiciary; not by mixing politics, not by lustrating those unsuitable, but by really seeing how many cases there have not been solved for years, for dozens of years, how many criminal acts of former authorities are there, why is that hitched? In particular, it should be borne in mind that it is a multinational environment that is sensitive to this matter. When we turn around and attack the work of Serbia's MUP, mostly, all the burden is transferred to the judiciary, because Serbia's MUP does its job as much as it does, finds a thief, criminals, brings him there to responsible, investigative judges, and the process stops for several years. Once again, I am taking the opportunity to appeal to the minister of justice to find opportunities to solve problems with root, not lustration. The judiciary should remain independent. The judge has to be independent, but it has to be done everywhere, even in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7805	Thank you. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7806	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to ask the Assembly how a citizen can submit the amendment, and in this particular case we have an amendment to Article 17. You know well that the Serbian Radical Party won 78 seats and the Serbian Radical Party follows, if it respects the law, if it is moral, if it is to respect customs, if it is to respect the integrity and principle, that only the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party sit here. Therefore, this amendment has been submitted by a citizen. I cannot explain to myself how parliament can allow its citizens to come to the Assembly and submit amendments and yet dare to come and explain it. There's no such thing in any parliament. The Serbian Radical Party respects the basic principles of morality, which means that it belongs to the party to whom the mandates belong, and no one else is with them. As regards the proposed amendment, Madam Minister, the proposed amendment absolutely does not improve the text of the draft law in the provision of Article 17. This is understood and it is quite logical that this amendment should have been rejected, because it does not comply with the proposed norms, nor changes them, nor improves them. No definition, no clear norm. This is understood as proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, today Serbia has a great intellectual force of civilians and experts, and can, in any case, interpret and implement laws in the Republic of Serbia, above all, judges, prosecutors and lawyers in other institutions that apply certain provisions of certain laws. What will be achieved with this amendment? I guess some efficiency. There's not a word about it. Will it be effective? No way. What is important for our legal order is that it must be seen, firstly, the legal-political aspect of our society, that is, our country. A parallel-legal aspect must be respected, which in one part you used, then a formal-legal aspect, then a legal and historical, socio-economic aspect and a legal-philosophy. So from the oldest days as the law was formed from customs to written documents and, finally, Serbia had the opportunity to bring in Emperor Dusan's code, which was one big codification. When it comes to justice, when it comes to judicial laws, in any case it is necessary to have the following: the principle of party disposition, the principle of formality, the principle of suitability and literacy, the historical principle and the principle of material truth, on which justice is based. The principle of material truth is based on every rule of law, as well as our rule of law, with a legal theory, and how rich. The principle of directness, what does that mean? This principle implies that citizens can directly address competent courts in the exercise of their rights and other institutions in a direct manner. The principle of directness requires that parties be given the possibility in a procedure that, on equal terms, they can prove their claim in order to exercise their rights and to make a final decision of a court or of another body. The principle of impartiality. With this principle, if you'll allow me, Mr. Vice President, I'll be a few minutes. We are witnessing that more than 80 courts in the Republic of Serbia have adopted complaints and made decisions that have taken the mandates that were taken from the Serbian Radical Party. They were returned, and we have a case in Kragujevac and Belgrade that the courts did not do so. Now we are asking a delicate question – we have here in parliament respectable lawyers, those who are longtime lawyers and lawyers, who know what it means – if we are in a crisis of unequal court practice. Here's an example, we're going into a crisis of unequal court practice. I am opposed to the fact that the Supreme Court, i.e. the cassation, can adopt and establish principles of law, so that instead of standing to form case law, but not principled legal views, because someone from the most instance can take the wrong principle of law, that courts apply it in practice and thus make decisions contrary to the Constitution and contrary to certain law. I therefore accuse the judges who took part in the decision-making process in Kragujevac and Belgrade for failing to comply with the Constitution and the law and did not return the mandates of the SRS that were kidnapped. I'm accusing them, let them think about whether they belong in the judiciary, let them judge for themselves. I call on the expert public, in which I include both judges and prosecutors, judges who have made fair decisions, who have not fallen under influence, who prove that they are impartial and that they respect the Constitution and the law and that no one can turn the phone, no political party can order the judge to judge... That can't happen anymore. I hope that all MPs in this House agree with these messages and that this should not be allowed, regardless of which political party it is; it is about respect for the law, the legal order, that is whether we are equal before the law. (President: Time.) Thank you, I'll continue later. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7807	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Konstantinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I have heard this debate about whether this amendment improves or does not improve the text and the various reasons why it should not be accepted. Personally, I think that this amendment is more precise than it was a member of the law itself, that it is linguistically and grammatically improving the text and that there should be a plurality in this Article 17th point 2 as suggested by fellow Kishmarton. I believe the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia will vote to accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7809	On Article 18 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. A session of the Legislative Committee has just been concluded; the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Ms. Malovic, minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7810	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, given that the government has not had the opportunity to plead on this amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment. Since there has been controversy here about the amendments the Government has declared, I remain in everything the Government has said, unrelated to whether or not the amendments are accepted. In the very act that you have received, which we are discussing today, it says - the bill, which means that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed it, the Ministry of Justice has prepared it, and you are the one who will vote on it and accept those provisions or not. Of course, as representative of the Justice Department, I will fully respect your decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7811	The National MPs Konstantin Samofalov and Milan Škrbic submitted to the title above Article 19 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the vice-president of Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7812	Mr. Novakovic, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21, which regulates respect for the working time of judges and court employees. Here's a term that, in the SRS' view, is inappropriate. We think this was a great opportunity to correct the mistake that was made earlier, whether because of the poor translations of the laws that came to the former ministers, which Batic, which to Stojkovic... It is inappropriate, Mrs Malovic, that you are a person of dignity and a woman who, as far as I have seen, respectfully addresses the MPs, to remain this provision and to be called "judicial staff". As you translated and who translated to you, or to the predecessors, laws that are harmonised with the EU, you could put: "staff" is required. That's the same thing. I see here that's popular, when we travel to these international delegations, as we get on the plane, they start saying, "Stuff" is this, "stuff" is that. I'm surprised and I can't be surprised, because I know, ever since the world and the century, there's been busy faces. Employees are persons who work in court, who work in the authorities, who work anywhere. What kind of staff? They're not people who work in court butlers or adjutants to anyone. He is a butler, Nikolic Tadic, but that's different. We can't humiliate these people right now, especially because they're already humiliated by paying classes that are amazing and that they strike periodically, almost every year they stage a strike because of the fact that it's wrong. So isn't it nicer and isn't it in line with the tradition of the judiciary, in the end, and according to our Serbian language? Now, if this is what Mr. Klein and Mr. Batka are looking at, they'll probably be in some column in the NIN to deal with this issue. Really, does it have to stand "staff" or "face employed"? They're going to give you an interpretation and they're going to say that language is both correct, but what's more appropriate? They always do it when a coin appears or a new expression appears and some innovation in our language. Is it also right in the spirit of our people and in the spirit of Serbian? I guess "face busy." Then these people know that people with their dignity, with their qualifications, and that no one calls them some staff, which is really, because of the lack of money in your budget in your division, are humiliated because of extremely low wages. These people, these ladies and gentlemen, persons employed in court, who must, just like judges, as Article 21 says, monitor working hours and be disciplined at work, cannot, Mrs Malovic, help better operate the judiciary in Serbia. They are an extremely important factor in this entire system, but as long as there is political pressure, influence and manipulation with the choice of judicial holders, as I say correctly, Serbian radicals... I want to kindly ask you to accept that, because you're the person who knows it's going to mean something to them, so let's change it analogly, and in all other laws, what's the problem, where it says it's staff. So they do their job and their duty perfectly normal. Look, let's say, people who work in the office. Not to mention names, although I might, are honorable people, there are three employees in the office of the Kragujeva District Court, who have work to do over their heads. And when elections aren't, every time I get there, I see these people doing their job in a committed and safe way, those people who are employed in the Kragujeva court, as well as everywhere, and they're just looking for the state to respect them a little bit more. Just when, as an authorised SRS person, along with these outlaws who took the mandates of the city council, I went to sign because I had the honor of signing contracts with them, a smile on the faces of those now disfellowshipped, the radicals saw all the persons employed in the Kraguje court. They saw that it was one solemn act for all who had been given the opportunity to make out of 87 candidates on the SRS list in Kragujevac they were among 18 council members. We are also in such a consolidation of forces, in addition to lies and delusions about actions, "Fiyata" and everything that was served to the Kragujevci in an unsuspecting media campaign conducted by Tadic and Stevanovic, we managed to make a success, so we are the largest opposition political party in the town of Kragujevac and the single strongest political party. Then, not with the involvement of these honorable men, the persons employed in court, because they were doing their job... As this solemn day was served, this citizen who sat here and took the parliamentary mandate, and now on board, and the rest of the Serbian radicals with cakes and cakes, we served that solemn day persons employed in court. They saw that we were happy for the fact that we had achieved such a success in that, as many thought, an impossible mission. It could not have occurred to anyone, not to the persons employed in the court, not to the office, not to those working there, that something like this would happen and that only two months after that the group of people, who is deeply criminalised, would start a coup, take over the SRS, and end the electoral will. When due to this fact that the City of Kragujevac Assembly did not want to respect, firstly, the unanimous decision of the City Election Commission, and then the Committee on the mandate-immunity issues, filed a complaint to the Kragujevac District Court, did not violate the law of the person employed by the Kragujevci District Court, as you call them "staffs", but rather the President of the District Court, who is, at the very least, a suspicious person because he is in direct contact with Nikolic and that outlaw group. His home friend, someone who is burdened with many other crimes, whose choice, this Miroljub Tomic, was challenged by both Mr Krasic and my smallness when he was elected President of the District Court and, as such, the alpha and omega in the forest judiciary, chose similar judges in the District Court. Now I'm not going to mention the one who's also known for its crimes, but I'm going to read it, the public is also working for you, Mrs. Minister, what kind of criminals they are, and these are people who are employed in court, because they are judges, but they are also the ones who have made such a scandalous verdict to take away, or take away the mandates of the SRS in Kragujevac. These are: as president of the first council, Radovanko Nikolic, judge Vesna Cvetkovic and Milunka Cvetkovic; as president of the second council, Obren Jezdic, president of the Council of Simonida Miloradovic and Aleksandar Blanus. I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, since I hear from the last rows of some unarticulated sounds, that you press that button so I can continue normally, thank you very much, to talk about serious things. There are some here who were released by Vuk Bojovic apparently and came to the National Assembly today, so they interfere... (Chairman: Please don't. )......................................................................................................... and those from the zoo and citizens who have no mandate to represent anyone. Please, we're talking about serious things, the fact that the judges of the District Court are in Kragujevac, and there are six of them, now I've read, really criminals in the right sense of words. As stated by Mr Todorovic, vice president of our party, in a criminal report filed by the municipal public prosecutor, judges are persons who, according to their profession and by these codes (which I see, you are trying to establish and specify criteria for selecting judges and prosecutors in the next period in the re-election process), must be complete professionals. As was the responsibility of all those committees in the City of Kragujevac Assembly who raised their hands to respect such a unanimous decision by the GIK and the Committee on the mandate-immunity issues... Not only that, I will now inform both Mr. Todorovic and the SRS and the entire public, the two criminals in the city's assembly, Stevanovic and Milenic, are moving on. It was not enough for them to give such a radical decision by the Kragujevah Assembly of the City, where they first did not respect the Law on Local Elections, Article 47 and Article 49, an open opportunity, a creamworth more, to those judges who were prepared (this group of criminals) to make such a decision, but to move on. At last week's session of the Committee on the mandate-immunity issues, the SRS committee from Kragujevac, Branislav Aleksic, told those from the Kragujevac City Assembly (you should know, Mr Chikiriz, because you are part of the coalition government) what they intend to do. But I now warn Stevanovic that he will immediately receive criminal charges, as he is, as mayor under the law, directly responsible for the execution of every payment order, every dinar spent from the City Assembly and for the violation, possibly, of the Law on the financing of political parties. Mr. Branislav Aleksic was told last week, after he was taken along with this criminal Tomic and Nikolic, that he would also take the money for ten council members who were elected from the SRS list. So again, you see that you somehow bind these individuals and these people who have come into the image of any individual... Yes, well, you told me, thank you very much. You see, both you G 17 and you're "yellow" who you've held back and what Boris Tadic is doing to you and what you have to endure here, but I believe there are a lot of honest people among you who know that this is a situation that is not appropriate and that didn't happen in this way. It was before Ivkovic and all that, but this is scandalous; and you are ashamed, I know individually and talk to some of you. What will you do when Hope Kolundzija participates in all this, Boris Tadic dictates it and violates the electoral will of the citizens. Therefore, Your Honor, you can really tell me now that the executive branch of power is independent of the court, that there is nothing you can do, as Mr Markovic told me. He said he would submit a review, although he did not give me these court decisions, according to these decisions to take office. You must know, Mrs. Malovic, I am prepared to give you copies of these applications, and we have also addressed the Republic Public Prosecutor. Yesterday I asked if he was alive and if we had him. We don't have a Republic Public Prosecutor. He's long gone. Who's going to react in this situation? Which is and what is it, therefore, a failure in law? Who could have suspected that someone would dare to go to such a flagrant violation of the Constitution and the law? When the Law on Local Elections was passed, we tried to make it the widest possible consensus, so that day, and we were at a rally in Leskovac, you were making up something again. Mrs. Radeta, who worked as a member of our expert group, then reported and said there was no way we could support that law, even though it was the letter of the Constitutional Law. She had committed and worked seriously on it, but she was absolutely sure, as she is today, that they were an excellent member of 47th and 49th. Isn't that right, Mrs. Radeta? The best possible, in particular the whole of Article 49 and Article 2 which gives opportunity when it fails, or does not make a decision in accordance with the contracts officially signed before the persons employed in the Kragujeva court by these outlaws, to activate resignations with the authority of the applicant and to return the mandates of the list from which those who have been selected have ceased. What are we here for? Is the law respected? What's the stalemate now, what's this all about? He is not responding to the municipal public prosecutor on criminal charges for six criminals filed by Mr. Todorovic. He's not responding to the Republic Public Prosecutor, he's nowhere to be found. He wasn't even... If there was and he was doing his job, let's logically conclude everyone and tell you, he would have been at this conference the other day, Mrs. Malovic, right? He wasn't. Who's here? Montenegrin Supreme Court President Vesna Medenica, deputy state lawyer Dragan Novosel and head of the OSCE's legal department in Serbia, Ruth van Rijn, arrived. That's where you made a nice deal and said - they have to be high professionals, honorary, responsible, to respect the laws; among other things, the one we're bringing today, or we're discussing in particular and a whole set... (President: It's half a minute. )......................................................................................................... I'm done, those laws. But what are we to expect when in Kragujevac, a city in which an appeal court is being established, in a town in which in the 19th century, Serbian democracy was annulled by the establishment of the Sretenjski Constitution and the Assembly, the first Serbian assembly, there was such a violation and the withdrawal of the mandate? At the very least, you're responsible for the fence and for saying... (President: Minute. )......................................................................................................... that you condemn this, that what happened was a scandal and that it's a shame that there are criminals in the Serbian judiciary like this. Thank you, and I'm so sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7813	Mr. Mirko Chikiriz, a replica mentioned in Ms. Jovanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7814	Thank you, very briefly. I would really like to, and I think I share the opinion of the citizens, the judges, that the Assembly is dominantly discussing topics that are on the agenda. What Miss Jovanovic was talking about is somewhat about the topic of the agenda, but this has been heard in this high house several times before. Indeed, on behalf of the SPI, as works of the ruling majority, I would repeat in the shortest possible terms: we believe that the party should be the owner of the mandate, and of course there is the free will of the committee and MPs to make their mandate available to the political party. Again, the Kragujevac City Assembly did not engage in what is happening within the SRS. She did not discuss whether resignations and contracts were concluded under the faults of will, under duress, delusions, or some deceitful acts. We left it to the court of law. I don't think the situation in the judiciary is the best, we talked about it on behalf of the list of ZES and SPO, but I would really disagree with the qualifications on the judges of the District Court. I know them all individually, those who are listed as criminals, I think they're the top of the Kraguje justice system. I would not agree with the assessment that the mayor and deputy mayor are also criminals. We are part of the ruling majority, surely we would not be entering the ruling majority with criminals. Indeed, since this has been repeated, I do not know how many times, I would ask Ms. Jovanovic, as vice president of the Assembly that I greatly respect, to make her contribution to the more constructive work of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7815	You don't have the right to a replica. You challenged her.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7816	According to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 104 and 141. Let me explain to my colleagues. You're the first MP in the assembly, I want to help you. When it comes to the amendment to any law, if you're wise enough and you have any sense of this job, you'll always find a connection between the tabled amendment and what you want to say to the public. It's the skill of a possible one. You'll learn that. So, you don't stick to what it says, so you're just talking -- persons employed, etc. I've made an excellent connection between the court employees in Kragujevac and this case you're talking about. Because you've expressed your suspicion now, Mr. Chikiriz, you say - she didn't get into it. It was her job, by law, to get into it. What's the Kragujevac City Assembly doing? Then you don't know how to read the Law of Local Elections, so that's your problem. It's just a congregation thing to get into it. If an authorised person has brought resignations, contracts and powers, the Kragujevac City Assembly should be involved. And that you were all smart enough to raise your hands, as only 13 of us did, and to determine what the City Election Commission did unanimously, in which members of all parties, as well as the ruling, as well as Mr Goran Ivanovic of the Democratic Party, a member of the GIK, who was chairman of the previous term and who said that he voted with both hands to return the mandates... Goran Ivanovic, as well as Mrs. Zorica Avramovic, who is the president of GIK, who is an excellent lawyer, will make such an arrangement first with Stevanovic and Milenic, in agreement with Nikolic, then criminal Miroljub Tomic and, responsibly, the president of the District Court who has other crimes. See how it all comes to its own. It turns out that they intend to keep going, which would say, on the knife from the SRS, that they won't calm down, that they want to take the money that belongs to us under the Party Financing Act, or election results. Since it happened in Lapov where you're responsible, fellow Chikiriz, SCO, I now have to apologize the case. The SO Lapovo session was held on Friday. The authorized face of Zlatko Radic, president of Serbian radicals in Lapovo, submitted resignations, powers and contracts for four SRS outlaws. Your municipal board, chaired by a certain Sasa Ivanovic, received clear instructions from Mr Vuk Draskovic, the president of the SPO, as well as the president of the municipality Lapovo Dragan Zlatkovic, to vote and to determine the resignations of Serbian radicals. They wouldn't listen to the president of their party. Then what are we talking about? Then you bring Vuk Draskovic to sit in your seats instead of you, or to keep giving you explanations and interpretations, because it is obvious that what you agree on in your party will not respect, and that is already indiscipline and ignorance of what your party's policy is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7817	I cannot thank you, because Article 104 obliges MPs to respect the dignity of the assembly, and Article 141 regulates the search for amendments. So, you abused the Rules of Procedure, so please don't do it anymore. Is there anyone else answering for the word after the amendment? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7818	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Mrs Malovic, I would like first to express my satisfaction with the fact that you have accepted some of the DSS amendments, and also with regret that you have not accepted our amendments to the law on the seats and areas of the courts, so that in the debate on details we will try to convince you that some of them are good, as well as these amendments to the draft law on the regulation of courts, especially the proposal for a law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary. My colleague Palalic told me to convey his regret that he is unable to explain his amendment today, since he and Mr Kostunica are participating in the Single Russia Congress in Moscow together, so that he will join in next week. The amendment he submitted refers to the third chapter of Article 23, where the jurisdiction of the High Court has been regulated. In his amendment, the colleague suggested that the words "in civil law disputes be deleted in point 7 when the value of the case enables the publication of the audit". I think it's clear that we're not wasting our time in some big exposure. The government has told us in its explanation – it is more comprehensive for the trial in civil disputes when the value of the case of the dispute allows for the declaration of the review to be provided for by the jurisdiction of the higher court, for reasons of greater value of the dispute. It was precisely the intensities of the applicant of this amendment – that all cases in civil matters should be in the jurisdiction of the particular court, regardless of the value of the dispute. It is our idea, or desire to extend the jurisdiction of the basic court, because we think that the proposed solutions are not well done. I think this way improves the efficiency of the basic courts, their functioning, and thus contributes to the uniformity of the case law. I hope that by the end of the amendment debate, you'll think about this one more time, and I think it's really the best way to fix this. I know there are amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, where a certain amount will be changed for the subject by revision, but until that happens, I think this solution is quite satisfactory.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7819	On the occasion of the amendment, Mr Petar Jojic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7820	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this amendment by Mr. Palalic is an amendment that better regulates the conduct of citizens before a first-degree court. The question arises why should citizens refer to another court rather than to the basic court to settle all disputes, as it has been in jurisdiction so far; why should citizens now appear and the jurisdiction be transferred from lower to higher court? More rightly, this solution, proposed by counterpart Palalic, is because in this way the right of our citizens is achieved faster and more comprehensively. As Ante Fiamengo said, that Slovenian sociologist, you studied that in college, this is a question of whether to stay or not. I think the amendment is quite appropriate, to improve the text. Finally, the revision provision is also very complicated in the current Law on the Prosecution. The height requires, or the value of a dispute that crosses 500,000 dinars allows and gives the party the right to declare its review to a higher court. This is a better solution proposed by counterpart Palalic for not leaving even the basic, now municipal, court without the right to decide on these rights and interests of our citizens. I think the amendment is in place, he's going to be in better function because we have a secure overallity, we're going to have security and efficiency, and, thirdly, we're going to have the economics of the process secured. For these three reasons, I suggest you adopt this amendment. Regarding that unequal case-law that slowly enters the small door, which concerns those mandates of the council in Zemun, where the mayor of the city of Belgrade, with the position of great power, comes out in public and tells Serbian citizens that the mandates will be detained by those who took them and fled temporarily from the town hall in Zemun, as well as those who did so in Kragujevac, the mayor has no constitutional and legal, not even the moral right to engage in the dirty work. It's an extremely dirty job. This proves that we do not have an independent and impartial judiciary when the mayor can send such a message and make such a statement. It's a very serious thing. To warn the judiciary to uphold the Constitution and the law. The mayor has nothing to do with the court's affairs. Nikola Pasic asked the minister of justice - Mr. Minister, were you interested in any of your relatives' case in the district court? He says - well, Mr. President, I did. Why? I just thought, she says, I should ask her to get rid of the case. And Nikola Pasic, as Prime Minister, says - Mr. Minister, please go to your cabinet in 15 minutes to write your resignation so I don't call the government at one hour to relieve you of your duties. If it were a legal state, Belgrade's mayor would be immediately removed, in England, Germany, France, Italy, Belgium, even in Estonia. It would be replaced by his party and said -- you don't deserve to be the mayor of all citizens in Belgrade's territory, including the Zemun municipality. That's why I think, ladies and gentlemen, these judges who defiled their cheeks should think for themselves whether their place is still in the judiciary. That's what they were talking about. This is why: the professional public condemns them, condemns them by fellow judges and says -- it is not possible that those two smart-ass, the one in Kragujevac and the one in Belgrade, allowed themselves to be smarter than both the Supreme Court and all the presidents of the district courts and judges of municipal courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? These are the extremes on which we must build basic principles for judicial independence, impartiality and without the influence of politics. Please and I suggest that the coalition that is in power never again allow anyone to interfere with the judiciary. Raise your hands from the judiciary, let him do his job. That's what the SRS is gonna do. I'll just let you know now, on one case, how the SRS proves it. When I was deputy republican minister, and after the federal justice minister, Rada Trajkovic came to me, then the SRS MP first and then the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, who asked me to force her brother from the Municipal Court to Nis to transfer and elect a district court judge. I saw then that there was no place for it, nor was the Serbian Radical Party, which briefly participated in the Socialist Government at the time, to allow it. At that moment, I turned the phone to Professor Vojislav Seselj, who was in the government building, and told him what it was, that she came to intervene without me suffering and that the Serbian Radical Party should not. What happened? The president of the Serbian Radical Party, then Deputy Prime Minister, urged Radu Trajkovic to resign; on the same day, he had to resign and be expelled from the SRS. So, gentlemen of the Democrats, and you do, you will be respected in the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7821	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Zoran Bortic comes from the area of the County Court of Sapac, so it is the Mačvanski Management District, and I belong, according to the jurisdiction of these courts, to the County Court of Capac. Madam Minister, I would like to inform you that since Dusan Petrovic is no longer the justice minister of this District Court in Sapac and the seven municipal courts in the area of the district court function much better and work more in accordance with the law and the Constitution than was the case before. A colleague, Bortic, submitted an amendment to Article 23, as the member was regulated by the jurisdiction of the senior court. You know that the concept of the SRS in terms of seats and the organisation of courts is significantly different from what you have proposed. However, if you adopt these laws, given that their application has been delayed by 2010, the SRS will surely be in power by then because we are not subject to a political struggle by some party who now has MPs, but precisely the Boris Tadic regime. Article 23 regulates the jurisdiction of the High Court. The senior court judges in the first and second degree and here in the position of 1st under eight points are listed the jurisdiction of the High Court. Coli Bortic wanted to add another point to regulate the jurisdiction of the senior court in the first degree. However, the government did not accept its amendment and said it is in line with what is foreseen as the jurisdiction of the senior court in the second degree. It's unacceptable because we want to precisely define the jurisdiction of the higher court both in the first and second degree. What is referred to as the jurisdiction of the senior court in the first degree – the court for crimes for which the prison sentence has been scheduled for more than ten years as the main penalty. Because the previous member defined the jurisdiction of the basic court and said that the jurisdiction of the basic court, among other things, is to judge crimes where a prison sentence is intended or threatened for up to ten years. It's okay and it's acceptable. When it comes to the second point of this position, it is elaborated on what is the jurisdiction of the senior court, which is said to be tried for crimes against the Serbian Army. We cannot agree that this is so, it should be so, but it should be put into jurisdiction and conducted such judicial proceedings where it is tried by persons who, at times of war or of war danger, as well as in times of peace, have performed their duty in the best and most professional way. This morning, I had a chance to speak to Milan Milicevic before the start of this session, and I may have made a bit of a mistake, which is 43 years old, but he was fired. Instead of three years ago retired as a military person or a civilian at the service in the military, he was fired. What a cynicism! I don't think you can believe that. It can be said that the scenario you've made to destroy people's lives, stop economic activity, good and you seem perfect, but he's idiotic, he's immoral. I don't have enough words to qualify what you're trying to do with the citizens of Serbia, now and the alleged reform of the justice system. Infringement of the territorial sovereignty of the state – well, who defends the state? If law enforcement and compliance with the Constitution were to be consistently implemented, I think a large number of high-ranking officials should be prosecuted. I'm not going to prejudge from this place, say they're supposed to be in Central or some other prison. Yesterday on the agenda, we had a law on citizens' associations. One number of people who are the feathers of some associations is also not a place on the loose, especially those who poisoned, as I said yesterday, the civil sector in Serbia. I mean Natasha Kandić, Sonja Biserko, Borko Pavicevic and a series of their friends. How, then, can we say that our goal is to train the civil sector, and in fact through the civil sector, we are implementing a policy of Boris Tadic's regime? The damage to the reputation of the Republic of Serbia – and it is in the jurisdiction of senior courts, and it certainly does not stand. Following today's press, I can say that what some political party officials said yesterday about the process of pressing charges by Croatia against the Republic of Serbia is terrible, scandalous. It is said – if the Republic of Serbia stood up to the complaint, it would only be in the interest of day-to-day politics and politics. We in the SRS believe that this lawsuit should not have been dropped, not now to go against the charges. The damage to the reputation of foreign or international organisations is also within the jurisdiction of the court. We must first protect our country and have a proper and good relationship with other countries and international organisations, but we do not. We have apologized everywhere and in every place, and we have received nothing from it, on the contrary, the impression that the state of Serbia is not interested in defending itself. It is inadmissible and my proposal is that the representatives of the government never do so again, because it is simply forbidden by the Constitution. Furthermore, the jurisdiction of the senior court is to launder money. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so you've already washed, ironed and brought in that money and increased it. They didn't spend it. They spend money on Serbian citizens. This money is being increased not only in Serbia but also in the surrounding countries. If these are the consequences of economic activity, that's good, but if it's robbing citizens of Serbia, it's not that it's not good, but to remind you, it's forbidden. There is little money left, which we would have to make much more account of, which the citizens of Serbia gained and gained by hard work. As far as our financial crisis is concerned, when MP Aleksandar Vlahovic came out and said - why are we talking about it, so you bring mistrust, this whole side welcomed that sentence with applause. Serious multinational companies are thinking about their workers, thinking about how to co-operate with the state to protect not only the property and capital of these companies but also the standard of citizens working in these companies. When it comes to violations of the law by judges and public prosecutors, these proceedings are being conducted by a senior court. Of the 2,400 judges, as many as there are in Serbia, we believe that most of them are honest, honest and highly professional people, based on the Constitution and the law. But there are also those who do not care about the fact that the constitution or the law is not important, but what someone from the cabinet calls them, whether it will be the mayor's office of Belgrade, whether it will be the cabinet of someone who made the party, and who makes judgments like in Kragujevac, Belgrade, Jagodina... We are for such judges to be prosecuted and to be responsible for this shameful act, but we also have a situation for the prosecution to remain silent on SRS applications, such as the first municipal prosecutor, i.e. the municipal prosecutor's office, or the city's, in Kragujevac and elsewhere. It's just not allowed. Help Serbian citizens to exercise their right. Yesterday in the afternoon, Mr. Zoran Krasic told you that the legal path is sometimes pointless and difficult for those who are exceptional legal professionals and who are in certain positions and cannot legally achieve and protect their rights, and which is why they are only hoping for citizens of Serbia who are not in such a position. In the second degree, the High Court decides to determine the security measures for the presence of the accused in a reduced criminal procedure. That's quite all right, but point 2 of that attitude says – to solutions in civil matters; to judgments in small-value disputes; in executive and extra-parnical proceedings. Paragraph 3 says - the Supreme Court is in charge of a procedure for issuing accused and convicted persons. I don't know what "for publishing" means. Making a conspiracy, to simply betray? In order to carry out the proceedings for taking the case on a plea and so forth, I can understand that, but what does it mean that a senior court betrays a person not convicted but accused? Madam Minister, we in the Serbian Radical Party don't want to get into the business and procedure of the courts and the prosecution, but we don't understand... We are not going to prejudge, but we are not clear on the basis of which legal acts Miladin Kovacevic was detained and what his fate is, because we know that yesterday I was talking about it, significantly before any state authority came in, and we will tell the courts and the prosecution that the state authorities, before any state authority came to The Tower, that television cameras, headed by B92, were ahead of it. They are practically not only forming and affecting political opinion, but in the most direct and direct way affecting judicial authorities. If we want the "r" of Serbia's judicial reform to take place, we cannot allow such actions and behaviour. I believe that the amendment that my colleague Bortic has submitted is acceptable. It doesn't essentially change your concept, but it will certainly define the jurisdiction of the higher court more precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7823	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure indicates Mr Zoran Krasic. I give him my word to explain what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7824	Mr. Novakovic, I appeal to Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. You've done a breach of the Rules of Procedure. While I explain this and finally find a connection between you and the injury, I am handing you a copy of the documentation for political parties in the National Assembly, and according to the site of the National Assembly. Here are examples for: DS, G17 plus, DSS, LDP, SPS, NS, League of Social Democrats Vojvodina, PUPS, SPO, Alliance of Vojvodian Hungarians, Sandzak Democratic Party, Unity Serbia, Together for Kragujevac, Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina, Democratic Party of Serbia, for one non-party personality, the Movement of Veterans of Serbia, the Social Liberal Party of Sandzak, the Party for Democratic Action, the Bosniak Democratic Party of Sandzak and the Social Democratic Union. I would ask you to provide to the political parties represented in the National Assembly, according to your website information, what has been copied in a sufficient number of copies, and here I have several copies for you and for the other vice presidents, so that you will not be denied for notice. I ask that the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, and someone of your choice read this letter and urgently provide information to Srdjan Milivojevic, Mrs Nadia Kolundzija and all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given that in one part of what I have provided you there is an official presentation of the statistics on the movement of pensions and what can happen from 1 January 2009. As a commentary, it is a warning – if a pension and disability insurance law is not passed by the end of 2008, the legal force of Articles 73, 75 ceases. The 2005 law (this is the so-called Dinkic Law) opens up the possibility of pensions coming down to only 30% of the average salary. If I were in the heat of a media fight against the SRS, someone wouldn't call me if I were to read data that isn't accurate, credible, I'd go ahead, just in case, and appreciate that Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, who was mentally struggling to get the bankruptcy mafia out of prison, to defend himself from freedom and to join a new party, please, that the official authorities respond to this, so that the use of this data would not cause surprise and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would not come into a situation to get baptized with both the left and right hands that hit them since DS chief ideologist Srdjan Milivojevic became.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7825	Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7826	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 31. The draft law provides that the Supreme Cassation Court determines the principle of legal views for the sake of uniform judicial application of law. The amendment suggested that this attitude be deleted. However, the LDP considers that there is also a need for this position in the bill, in that Article 31. First of all, we think it is very good to institutionalise, in fact, the concept of principled legal views, because these principled legal views are the result of the decision, i.e. the expert thinking of judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, the most judicial instance in one country, specifically in Serbia. Otherwise, it's an experience in law enforcement. We know very well that often laws are passed with us that don't apply, so we have a bunch of laws that don't have that function, which are also why they've been passed, voted and released into the procedure. Often these laws have some inaccuracies that are mostly an obstacle to the application of the provisions of the law. As a result, the principle of legal attitudes are also useful, as they exclude, above all, the possibility of creative interpretation of the law. With us, this creativity often implies that there is arbitrary interpretation. When a principled legal position is established regarding the application of a certain law, certain legal provisions, one legal certainty in the application of that law is automatically obtained. So in that case we have one uniform application of the law, we have a unique legal position. If citizens who think about whether to engage in certain trials have principled legal views before them, they could be or are invited to go ahead with this court procedure or to give up, because there is one legal certainty as to how this problem can be solved. In this way we avoid unnecessary trials, because people don't give in to coincidences, maybe they will succeed in the trial, maybe they will get court, and then they are tried for years, which is where the practice is not uniform and there are no such principles of legal views. In addition, with these principles of law, we are in some way reducing the possibility of unauthorized influence on the court. You will allow me, we must take every opportunity, every opportunity to reduce that possibility of unauthorized influence in court. Therefore, this member of the law and this position contribute to legal certainty, and for this reason we feel it is good that this position of Article 31 is included in the legislative proposal. We do not support the proposed amendment and we believe that the government's decision not to adopt the amendment is rational and legal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7827	Thank you. Based on article 85, I'm setting a one-hour break. So we will continue our work at 3 p.m., and the first speaker will be Mrs. Verica Radeta, and then Mr. Petar Jojic, if there is any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon. At the beginning of the notice that, on the basis of Article 85(5), we will work after 18:00 hours, but no later than 2.00 hours, because Serbia's Radio Television has a transmission obligation of 20.00 hours, and the Assembly works and sessions only take place in direct transmissions. The morning section ended with a debate on the amendment to article 31, which was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. She answered for the word, and the word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7829	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just one sentence, Mrs Comic, without the intention of usurping your rights, Serbia's Radio-Television also has the obligation to transfer the trial of Dr Vojislav Seselj at 22:00 p.m. on the second programme. Of course, we from the SRS, as well as 1,200,000 Serbian citizens who have signed their petition and asked for this transmission in time, are grateful to Serbia's Radio-Television and of course we will always take care of the time foreseen for this transfer because we are convinced that what Vojislav Seselj is doing in The Hague tribunal is of paramount importance for all citizens of Serbia, for the state of Serbia and for the Serbian national interests. In the afternoon, we began the debate on the amendment of Dragan Zivkov to Article 31. Proposal for a court-ordered law. Given that it was an hour ago, I will only remind myself that Article 31 refers to jurisdiction outside the trial and that Article 31 reads: "The Supreme Court of Cassation lays down principled legal views for the sake of uniform judicial application of law; it considers the application of laws and other regulations and the work of courts; it appoints judges of the Constitutional Court, gives an opinion on the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and carries out other powers under certain law. "A colleague Dragan Zivkov, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has suggested that this section be deleted which says the Supreme Cassation Court determines principled legal views for the sake of uniform judicial application of law. In his explanation, he said very briefly that, which is absolutely correct, in Article 142(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that courts work, i.e. based on the Constitution, the law and other general acts. So this provision of article 31 is, above all, unconstitutional. It is not good when the National Assembly adopts laws that we know in advance are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and when we put ourselves in a situation where, before the entry into force or immediately after the entry into force of the law, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia will be in agreement. Of course, we do not dispute the right and the possibility for everyone to address the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court to work in accordance with their powers, but we should make sure that we can in this Parliament pass laws that suit the political option or coalition that is in power in Serbia. It is perfectly legitimate and it is normal for SRS MPs, as well as other opposition parties, to submit amendments with the intention of actually showing the citizens of Serbia through these amendments how this matter, both any other matter and any area of social life, would be regulated by the Serbian Radical Party. You of the ruling majority have shown through the government's proposal here how the majority of parliaments and the government of the Republic of Serbia see the order of courts and, of course, we can and should discuss it, but when the question is whether something is in line with the Constitution or not, then we think there is no place for political views. I do not believe that there is any legal party in this parliament who would be willing to deliberately pass laws that do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia rejected the amendment by counterpart Zivkova, with the following explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why it is necessary for the Supreme Court of Cassation to take principled legal positions for the sake of uniform application of law in court. It is true," the government said, "that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 142(2) states that the courts are based on the Constitution, the law and other general acts, but it is necessary, since those rules are not always precise, to take principled legal views to ensure that these rules are uniformly applied." In this explanation, why is the amendment not accepted by colleagues Zivkova again hiding between the ranks of something we already have, I think this is the third time, in the last ten days or a week we have been able to notice – it is obvious that the Government of the Republic of Serbia disagrees with some constitutional solutions. If not, then how can the Government say that some regulations, and previously it is said that it is the Constitution, the law and other general acts, are not always precise and that a court should now, whatever it is called, the Supreme Court of Cassation, can be called not knowing how, to establish some legal practice which, the Government is ready and shows us, is not in accordance with the Constitution, laws and other general legal acts. The constitution was brought by Serbian citizens. A vast majority of Serbia's parliament accepted the constitution, a vast majority of political parties participated in a campaign to adopt the constitution. One current assembly group led an anti-campion campaign, but when the representatives of the political party speak here, they always draw attention that they do not like some constitutional solutions, but that the constitution must be respected. So here it's just legal thinking, there's no room for improvisation, especially not by the assumption that the Constitution, the law and other general acts are not precise enough. When it comes to laws, we are paying attention to our amendments to write the laws and propose them to be precise, to make legal standards clear, concise, precise, to leave as little scope for abuse as possible when applying the rules, to leave as little opportunity as possible for so-called. legal gaps. The Government of the Republic of Serbia must not, in particular, allow the National Assembly to acknowledge in advance that it is passing laws that are not precise enough. Let's change these laws, let's correct, accept amendments to MPs, primarily the Serbian Radical Party, because I am addressing the public of Serbia and the MPs on behalf of my political party and the parliamentary group. Let's take every amendment seriously, so we can try to make things right together that you're already predicting in advance so that it can happen or that you already have laws that are inaccurate. It is your argument, by reason of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that you have confirmed that the amendment of counterpart Dragan Zivkov should be accepted. What we don't think is right in some law should be changed nicely. Otherwise, if I were you, Mrs. Malovic, I would seriously worry. This law on the regulation of courts has a total of 98 members. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted 19 amendments. It seems to me that this is quite a large percentage and that this says that we have actually received a bad proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because by accepting these amendments you have admitted these 19 mistakes compared to 98 members. Of course, a representative of the government should discuss each amendment, it should accept any amendment that contributes to making the law better and more applicable, especially in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but it is worrying that you have delivered to us a law that you have admitted has so many faults. And how many amendments you won't accept. We will in the course of the debate warn you of this and explain where we see all the bad solutions in this law. That this law is already in force and that there is a Supreme cassation court and that in this Supreme Cassation Court, there is a person more judicial than Judges Sladjana Bojovic, as president of the council, Željko Skoric and Zivana Djukanovic, as members of the council, imagine that all the courts in Serbia have accepted legal practice, such as criminal, as brought by the three judges of the District Court in Belgrade, according to Djorđa Gačević of Belgrade, the council of the City of Novi Belgrade... Imagine that dozens of courts in Serbia, who acted in accordance with the Constitution and with the Law on Local Self-Government and agreed to return to the SRS' kidnapped parliamentary mandates, imagine that they had to handle this, that their legal practice would be this subsequent verdict of the three-member district court in Belgrade. We could then expect such an illegal decision to be made and when it comes to the Zemun municipality, especially when we know that Dragan Gilas has already made statements and prepared us in advance, first of all to the citizens of Zemun, that he is ready to introduce a forced administration and that he is confident that the court will decide in that direction. Here, today we haven't received from Milan Markovic yet, and he has promised to inform us already today, because yesterday we asked, why a certain lady in the Belgrade City Assembly does not want to publish the legally adopted Statute of the city municipality of Zemun, because she says she has been ordered not to publish it in "The Official List of the City of Belgrade" because whoever issued the warrant knows that a forced administration will be introduced in Zemun. So we can't let any three people who can buy Dragan Gilas, Miskovic, Vukic, who participates in the purchase of judges or can make them... You, in fact, want all judges in Serbia to be listeners to the regime, such as Sladjana Bojovic, Zeljko Scoric and Zivana Djukanovic, by the lustration you are planning. That's why you want all the judges to be resolved, so that you can then choose your own and ask them a test question - who is ready to listen to Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas, who is not ready to do so, has no place in Serbia's judiciary anymore. We Serbian radicals want to fight it and do it day by day. First of all, we want to inform the public of Serbia what criminal authority Serbian citizens have today, and not only in the government of the Republic of Serbia. For the government, too, small children in Serbia know that it is a set of criminals, with some exceptions, are certainly not all the same; you, Mrs Malovic, cannot think of comparing yourself with Dinkic or Djelic. It's criminals a couple of excellencies. The time of 15 minutes is up. So accept this amendment so that criminal troikas such as Sladjana Bojovic, Zeljko Skoric and Zivana Djukanovic from the Belgrade District Court would not happen in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7830	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, Ms. Verica Radeta, interpreted it quite logically and in a constitutional way explained why Article 31 should be deleted, and this is close to those provisions, which rely on each other, is Article 33. Ladies and gentlemen, the Verica Radeta has explained that the courts are on the basis of the Constitution, the laws and other general legal acts and on the basis of an international law treaty if our state has concluded such contracts. Article 31 states that the Supreme Court of Cassation lays down principles of law for the sake of uniform judicial application of law; considers the application of laws and other regulations and the work of courts; appoints judges of the Constitutional Court, gives an opinion on the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court and exercises other jurisdiction under a certain law. Article 33 refers to the publication of decisions of the Supreme Cassation Court. You see, the decision of the Supreme Cassation Court, usually as a single interpretation of the lower courts, must be published in "The Official Messenger", and it cannot be announced that the statute of the city's municipality in Zemun has been made public. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no way one court can be allowed, nor can the Supreme Court, to determine and to bring principled legal views. These principled legal views, in my deep conviction, and based on years of practice and monitoring of the work of the courts, from the lowest to the highest, became law, not judicial practice. In numerous decisions by municipal and district courts, as well as the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, I have had the opportunity to find that the court is not calling for a provision of the law, but for established legal principles of the Supreme Court. What are we going to do now when in one court there is a bigger one and a bigger one does not accept a principled legal position, but says – I will judge by law; if in a municipal court it decides three-memberly bigger? What's gonna happen? Whether the Supreme Court will now say – you have not acted in your council according to the principle of law. You, gentlemen of the judge, who thinks and pretend to be smarter than the Supreme Court judge, did not respect our principled legal views, take care of how you will now pass your judgments. What usually happens? The largest number of decisions abolished or amended is those who have opposed this entry into the legal procedure, in breach of the Constitution and the law, so that their legal views and opinions should be respected by all in court and in lower courts. According to the SRS, this is absolutely unacceptable. Tell me, from a comparative right, in which European country is it so regulated that the Supreme Court, or cassation, or federal, or constitutionally authorized to bring principled legal views that will be binding on all courts in the territory of a single state? Now let me remind you, I own the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany which I have studied from the first to the last member. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany, the issue of court practice has been regulated differently. The federal court in the Federal Republic of Germany does not know the institute - principled legal views. This is what the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany is doing in Article 95(3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany – in order to preserve the unity of the case law, joint large courts are being educated. Can't be the smartest one sitting in the Supreme Court, please excuse me. They can't all come there. That's the problem. You have far more professional or professional and equally professional in both county and municipal courts. Imagine, when the government puts pressure on the Supreme Court and says – it is in favour of Miskovic to judge and so on, there is no other way; the Supreme Court says - we must take a principled legal position and judge it, do not judge by law, and you must make such a decision and otherwise follow a re-election. You can come under attack, so that because you have applied the Constitution and the law are resolved because of your intricacies. That way, as Mr Krasic says, lustration would be performed. I repeat, in order to preserve the unity of the case law, common larger courts are educated. So, courts, not one court, like this one here. This matter is getting closer to the federal law. Madam Minister, you have a problem when it comes to courts and when it comes to judges and prosecutors. You see, you are predicting in the law that an interruption or delay can be carried out, giving authority to a public prosecutor so that he can "walk" into legislation to protect a debt lobby. This means that it is given the right to the public prosecutor that when he assesses or is ordered by someone, he suggests that the competent court delay the execution of Miskovic, Peconija, Babovic or others until another legal issue is resolved. Ladies and gentlemen, that's how a debt lobby would be protected. In 2000, when we passed the Executive Procedure Act, we abolished the institute so that the public prosecutor could request a postponement or termination. I will bring you to read you the provisions of the German civil code and the German law on enforcement, which say when and in what cases a delay or termination of the executive procedure can be carried out - in ten cases. You know when? Number one, when the debtor lays down a guarantee, which means that Miskovic lays down a guarantee and puts a mortgage on the facility and that he cannot alienate it, or that a ban should be imposed on him by means of an account; that a savings book and a jury account on which that amount stands, but also handed over to the trustee's hands. Then the trustee may say, agree that execution may be delayed or interrupted. These are examples... Of course, Mr. Krassic. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is in any case acceptable and we believe that no principled legal views can be a law for judges. We are in favour of organising a unique court practice and that this unique court practice is being studied by all judges and all judges, but we cannot give authority, Parliament cannot now give authority to the Supreme Court of Cassation that it takes principled legal views and then says - I am not interested in the law, I am not interested in the Constitution, we think, ten of us when we sit down and make a decision, someone goes to the gallows. It can't be like that. The Constitution in Article 142 to be clear, normable: "The courts are independent and independent in their work and judge on the basis of the Constitution, the law and other general acts, when provided for by law, the general rules of international law and the approved international agreements. "Is there any principled legal views here? There isn't. He can't serve anyone the Constitution of Serbia for the procedure. No, I don't. This is a gospel that no one can cross. This is a dam. No government, no court can break the constitutional provisions. I'm telling you this from experience, from practice. I know, I've read a number of judgments, hundreds of them, and there's a fellow attorney here who will be able to confirm that, where judges are just calling for the principles of the Serbian Supreme Court. I tell you, we have good judges both in municipal and county courts and in the Supreme Court, experts, but there must be no abuse. If this goes away, there's an abuse, no one can stop it. How will you invite a larger, general session of the Supreme Cassation Court or a department tomorrow, how will you invite him and say – why did you not respect the Constitution? I'm sorry, please, here's the law, it says -- it's proposed that principled legal attitudes are mandatory, that they have to be applied. I repeat, I consider that uniform court practice is sufficient. She's different from this institute. This provision is too strong for you, it equates the Constitution with a principled legal position, or a provision of some basic law or code. Imagine, if it is the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Supreme Court and its sitting session, and in this case we will take the view that all those 12,000 who were arrested in 2003 will have to go to prison, because that is what the Supreme Court session considers. All those who have wronged the law in another way and committed other criminal acts, the principle of attitude is – not now, the Supreme Court is of the opinion that this provision should be applied in one way or another. You see, we Serbian radicals ask that the Constitution be respected. Almost all the parties sitting here took part in his adoption and swore to God, kindly and to heaven, that they would honor him. If so and if we have done so and adopted such a constitution, then we must all respect it equally. It's a particularly sensitive matter of the judiciary. We can't make ambiguous provisions. We can't allow abuse there. This should be prevented and passed and regulated only in accordance with the Holy Scriptures. in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7832	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33. The draft law on the regulation of courts, which I asked for the removal of the position 2 which, to remind you, reads: "All decisions of the Supreme Court of Cassation under Article 30(1) of this law are published on the website of the Supreme Cassation Court. "The government has rejected this amendment for reasons that it believes it is necessary to get to know the general public all decisions of the Supreme Cassation Court which are important for the practice of the courts are published on the website of the court. To be clear, when this amendment was submitted, the intention was to delete a really unnecessary one, mentioning the position, because this falls, otherwise, in the way the courts work, so there was really no need to regulate this specifically with legal solutions, especially for an institution that had yet to be brought to life. Instead of accepting constructive proposals to simplify the proposed legal solutions, the government is set up as a Chinese wall and actually prevents any such possibility. All of this is otherwise absurd, given the fact that the whole period after the five-octobaric changes is actually marked by the lack of a real strategy for judicial reform, and this clearly stems from the fact that laws are very often changed, so that courts also work in conditions of complete uncertainty. The case works, just as this draft law on the regulation of courts was passed on 1 January 2002, however, a period of application of provisions establishing new jurisdiction and new courts was postponed for 1 October 2002. However, this period has passed. The deadline for the application of these provisions of the Law was moved on 1 March 2003. When the Supreme Court noticed that this term was approaching without preparations being made in good time and seriously, it addressed the Ministry of Justice and the bearers of the other two authorities, indicating all the adverse consequences of the non-creation of the law. However, on 1 March 2003, new courts were not formed, conditions for the new jurisdiction of the courts were not secured. That's why we are now in a situation where in the Law of Order of Courts we actually have courts that don't even exist in the practical courts that exist. That is why a proper strategy for judicial reform is necessary as an instrument for future, true reform. Its aim is also to define the exact directions for comprehensive normative and organisational reform through a clear definition of the areas in which it will be implemented. The right to reform, not like most cosmetic reforms, is a process of exceptional importance for the exercise of the principle of rule of law, and the rule of law requires respect for constitutional principles of the division of power and independence and independence of the judiciary. Such a change in the name of the courts, the re-election of judges leads to the fulfillment of a consensus in political power to carry out the lustration of judges already spoken of by their colleagues, but according to a law that applies only to the judiciary, in a way that cannot guarantee security and certainty. The situation in the judiciary is such, unfortunately, that I'm afraid we'll get to the collapse very soon. In addition to these numerous amendments submitted by opposition MPs to the proposed law, it is evident that the professional public has also highlighted a number of essential shortcomings in the legal solution. This, above all, is reflected in the need for public publication and criteria for the abolition of certain courts, i.e. changes and the overall judicial network, as well as a detailed analysis of the necessary activities and resources needed to plan changes in the order of implementation of activities and some real deadlines. They are also inadmissible, unclear and unsuitable solutions to the material position of judges, contrary to some international standards which, for example, only provide that, for example, judges' salaries must be regulated by law, i.e. prohibiting this reduction of one level achieved. Of course, the most controversial and critical is precisely part of the law relating to the change of the judicial network, i.e. the abolished number of municipal courts in Serbia since 1 January 2010. As we have heard from the Justice Ministry's representative, which explains this by the necessity and inevitability of the judicial reform, this will help to resolve court disputes and trial in the first instance in the primary courts for a maximum period of one year, and in the second instance up to six months. So, by abolishing 86 courts, instead of municipal courts, the 34 basic courts will be formed, and instead of those 26 districts there will be as much higher, followed by an appeal, supreme and cassation court. There are 120 municipal courts in Serbia now, and even 86 of them will become the main courts in which the judge will come as needed. Given that I am an MP from Mladenvec, there are also very negative comments that both the citizens and the employees of the judiciary, given that under the new law, which I have no doubt will be adopted by the assembly majority, and the Municipal Court in Mladenov, along with Barajevo, Grock, Lazarec, Obrenovac, Sopot and Surcin, therefore the suburban municipalities, will be in charge of the second basic court in Belgrade. Finally, I believe that, under the true improvement of the situation, there is an increase in the legality and regularity of the work of the judicial authorities, and this further means a small number of abolished decisions by first-degree courts and high-level urgency in the trial. They say the doctor operates on a man and the judge on a man's soul. The problem is that in Serbia over the past eight years, many judges have only been faceless officials of the regime, not particularly respected or respected. The only question is how will the state of Serbia get out of this network that it has fallen into. Legal certainty, fair trials, independent judges, the rule of law is something that is far from the will of Boris Tadic, just like the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7834	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is eight minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7835	Mrs. Komic, it is enough for eight minutes, you know that I am generous when it comes to the EU. Now I'd like to draw attention to something that you didn't understand about Mr. Peter Jojic. Further consideration of this law will include other provisions where there will be a speech on perceptions and attitudes, however, one legal understanding that is being taken up by the Supreme Cassation Court department and the other by principled legal views. Mr Jojic explained to you very vividly how legal understanding is being made in departments and how the principle of legal attitude is being reached. There's a big difference. If you believe it or don't believe it, it's your problem, but based on some experience of mine, and believe me, I've been faced with this problem for at least 30 months as a trade minister, we've had a big problem when it comes to attitudes and understandings that take over departments. Why? Because the president of the council writes some text and says -- it's legal understanding, schedules a class session, colleagues raise their hands, and it becomes a legal understanding. A colleague from the second grade, from the second major of the same department, in the same legal situation, and such situations happen, writes legal understanding, the session of the department is scheduled, hands up, and you have in legal traffic two legal considerations that are completely opposite to each other. Then, if it comes to the Supreme Court, we are talking about the Supreme Court because we have no experience with the Supreme Casation Court, pray to God the greater subject, whether the greater one whose president acted legally in this way or in the larger one where the second one is. In particular, it was scary with the council for administrative disputes. When it comes to the principled legal views taken at the general session, I have to draw your attention, based on the practice of the Supreme Court, not since this lady, but long ago, and here we have lobbying, literally speaking lobbying and taking some principled views. Now let me tell you the most honest thing: if it's a principled legal position of '65, '70 and some or possibly 1983, 1984, 1985, then it's cemented and has its weight; if it's about the principle of legal attitudes taken after 1992, 1993, tie the cat to the tail, there's nothing. Thanks to Dusan Petrovic's and Srdjan Milivojevic's actions, the bankruptcy mafia is at large today, so you know, and no one's talking about it. They're all at large today, defending themselves from freedom, and they found a new party to protect them. They'll be officials there because they're tycoons. If you were able to understand this, Madam Minister, then it would be much easier for you to question the binding power of principled legal views and legal understanding. This looks a little anachronous and looks like someone's pleading for contempt of the judiciary. Please, the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Society of Judges and the Society of these prosecutors cannot be compared to the House of Lords. The House of Lords rarely takes principled views on some issues. There's some other reason why I shouldn't burden you with it, so your brain doesn't break, but there are other reasons. So, in that sense, we need to interpret this criticism, first of all because of this dreary practice of ours. The principle of legal attitude, legal understanding in a regulated judiciary makes sense, but ever since democracy came, we've been far from making sense. As far as this amendment is concerned, which is submitted to a member talking about the publication on the website of the Supreme Cassation Court, why is it that something that is usually a technical means you're raising to legal standards? That's a possibility. This is the possibility and result of the technical achievements of individuals in the house, institutions, companies, whether it has a computer, whether it is connected to the Internet etc. Why are you making this a legal norm? Who has, if published, can see, and when you put it as a legal norm, then you must inevitably make sure that every legal norm in itself, if not directly then indirectly, contains something called law and contains something called obligation. If you raise one form of technical communication to the level of legal norm, then you need to assume responsibility to ensure conditions so that both rights and obligations are at the same rate. No, the government cares about... She saw a frog soaring, so let's get her foot up. That's the problem, which you make an EPP of a simple technical means as an option. Well, even now, the Serbian Supreme Court has its own website, so who's interested and has a computer in the office, clicks, finds something he's interested in. Although, these things might not really be there. Look, if you're going this way, you have to give a warrant now and how to update the site. What's it worth to me to watch a website when there are decisions from a year and a half ago? No, she saw the frog where the horses are wetting, so let's get her leg up, and she'll get her horseshoe. But if he can wear a horseshoe, it doesn't matter. A horseshoe weighs more than a frog. They're counting on time to push through, it's going to pass, there's a little bit of this information medium, that medium, everything is going to be European, European. You know how funny this is going. An even bigger problem in this whole concept of yours is that you're interpreting something as jurisdiction and it's not jurisdiction. Jurisdiction is something that can be defined as being created and fleshly, where the law should be applied, the proper provision. How can someone be in charge of determining legal views? When there's talk of jurisdiction you have to have parties, there's no parties here. That you may have thought of something – a job of work, an honor, but you have written "competence", and the word "competence" right has a very precise meaning. The National Assembly is in charge, we have two members who define what the affairs are, but the National Assembly is also considering other issues that are not in those two members, because this is part of the work and interests of the National Assembly. But what do we do, we have problems because people have graduated from colleges "on the line".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7836	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7837	Mr Avramovic has submitted an amendment to article 44, and this is the natural continuation of what I just said. You see, you're here in article 44, it's a general session... (President: Article 34.) I'm sorry, Article 34. Mr Avramovic has submitted an amendment to two members, to Article 34 and Article 44. It's okay. Now let me explain to you why it's okay. Look at the title above article 44, right there's the word "delekrug." Above article 44 says: General session of the Supreme Casation Court – Delokrug; so these are jobs. In this context, it is also written on principled legal views. That's what I was just saying. Mr. Avramovic, by his amendment to article 34, asked for attitudes 3rd and 4th to be deleted. This article refers to the annual schedule of jobs. Among other things, there is something that I believe is not in the law, and that is whether the judge will appeal on the annual schedule and within what time will he file a complaint to change that annual schedule. I think it's a matter of the Rules of Procedure. If you're putting this into law, then the entire legal path needs to be defined, and there's no legal path here. It's a first and a basic remark. Article 3 says, "The appeal of the judge is decided by the President of the High Court within eight days of the day of the appeal." Item 4, which Mr Avramovic requests to be deleted, reads: "The appeal of the judge to the annual schedule of affairs in the Supreme Cassation Court is decided by the general session. "I'm sorry, please, I think you've raised this question needlessly to some higher level. Now I have to return a little debate on something that was present in the principled search of this bill. As I recall, I think Mr. Konstantinovic, but you won't be angry if I made a mistake, but I do know that several DS representatives were excelling this bill, among other things, claiming that there would be no more court-mandated cases; even there was a little run out of the box and he said -- the computer will determine when anyone in which case to judge, etc. I have to tell the public that something like this is already working in Serbia. There are Roman numbers for bigger ones, for a judge who's in charge, and then that number goes out of the register in order when he comes in. The purpose of this natural right is that the judge judges in order how cases are coming, and it comes down to the following: if there are ten judges, there are ten numbers and then the first case goes to the first judge, the 11 goes first, the 21 goes first, the logic that can't affect which judge will judge depending on who's the prosecutor and who's the defendant. It works more or less with us. The question of rigorousity and whether it works the right way is something that's an internal matter of the court. But you know how lawyers are, they're resourceful, they file a lawsuit, and then they drop the lawsuit, and they press charges again, and they get a second number and a second number bigger, so you don't have to make a fetish out of it. The fact that the computer is going to... Peter, did I do something wrong? No, I don't. ) They withdraw the charges and return them again when it comes to Marina’s turn, not to be tried by Percid, but rather to be tried by Marina. Guys, you know that. I don't think that's supposed to make science out of it right now. It's just a schedule. The fact that you boasted about how the computer would, but not NASA's computer, that it would share objects, that there was nothing. Forget it. I don't know where you got that urge to brag so much about those machines. You praise machines a lot, and our society is like an animal farm. It's something amazing. It is a guaranteed right, the standards of the United Nations, for independence and independence of the judiciary – to order the judges to be in charge of the case and to judge, there is no draw, no bingo, no loto, no Pink, no this, no that, but precisely the order is known. But don't make this, like, a good system to prevent abuse. On one case, I told you how to stop it. Or does a lawyer go to the office and say, "If I take it now, what bigger will it be?" The marina. I won't take it. How long can I be here? Come here in half an hour. In the meantime, she ran a lawsuit, went to Perside's, and then she got the job done. Don't lecture us on how modern European things are, etc. In European courts, funds are being swept away, funds are not being chosen. Who do you think's going to get a two or three billion-dollar dispute to judge? Is Marina there? No, they won't. They're chosen judges. You consider this only as a criticism of practice, not a criticism of the first and second attitudes of this bill of yours. Since you want to whine about it being technology, computers will arrange a fair trial, etc., then don't make a science out of it. That a judge who is dissatisfied with the annual schedule has the right to object, the appeal is resolved by a senior court, you don't need it in law. It's not all the same to be in law. No one can put into law what comes to his mind, especially something like this regarding the EPP. Because if you're putting this like an EPP, then you're dragging the judge into something that's inalienable labour rights, because we have one thing for the judge -- a judge's function and a working relationship. It's sublimed in the judge's personality, you take care of it, one is a judge's function, the other is a working relationship. I wish you'd never asked the question of the judge's working relationship, but of doing the judge's office, and this is already quite getting into something that concerns unnecessary matters. That's why I'm telling you that not everyone's free thinking, desire or will is a good substance for legal norm. For you, as you set out about it, to make it clear to the viewers what they are trying to do, it is: The marriage law says what a marriage is and what a marriage is; it is basically that they love men and women, who intend to live permanently. By law, they are obliged to comply with those obligations prescribed by law. After twenty-something years of love, something's gone, and now a woman's suing her husband in court and saying, "I ask you to make a verdict and commit your husband to love me." How can he do that in law? How can he judge that? That's what you put in here. I'll be a good judge. We have what he swore twice in church before God, so he became "Smoki." No, it's not all about legal norms. Madam Minister, I get the impression that someone in this set of judicial laws, part of this law, but even more the two or three laws that follow after this debate, has cheated you badly. Now I'm going to explain to you what this scam is about. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is a Article 146, the first position says this: "The judicial function is permanent". What do you think continuity means? I'm getting the impression that you're chasing concepts, permanently, permanently, indefinitely, for a certain period of time. Can a judge's office be performed for a certain period of time? You can have the cleaning lady for three months, work for a certain time. You can have the cleaning lady on probation. There's as much law there as it can last. You can receive someone to do occasional and temporary jobs. You can hire someone based on the deal, but this is the judge. This isn't a working relationship, this is a function. It's a function within a branch of government that controls, quite, both legislative and executive power. Is the judge in a working relationship? You see, here you have said continuity, and in the next article of the Constitution there is a provision that says: "The high council of the judiciary, in accordance with the law, elects judges to perform permanent duties in the same or other court. "What does this mean to you - a permanent performance? Doesn't the concept of perseverance include perseverance? What I'm saying goes beyond the amendment, but it's got to be in mind and this, because now it's a hack of judges. Since there are 126 votes and there will be re-election, take care of the annual schedule, take care of it. Here is the intentional deadline for objecting to a judge who is dissatisfied with the annual schedule. Why? To be eliminated by these "yellows" to get him kicked out of court. Do you see how long-term they're making up the scam? In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there are two members who are contradictory to each other. The judge's office is permanent, and when the National Assembly under the new law, the new Constitution elects judges, it gives them the continuity of functions. There's no judge for a certain time. It doesn't exist. If there's a judge for a certain time, then he's not a judge. Principles and principles for the regulation of courts, in order to ensure the independence and independence of judges, who adopted the United Nations, do not know of this solution. We've been waiting a little while to hear this association of judges, since they're very smart, etc. Well, today and yesterday we dictated the names of the judges. They won't answer. The Association of Judges is a front against these here. They're on the same job, so you know, both judges and prosecutors, and parties and citizens who participate in court proceedings. They're on the same page. They're just pro-forms fighting re-election. You remember seeing Petrovic-Skero. As the President of the District Court, she went out to strike, to demonstrate with people who work in the judicial administration. She criticised the government, and she wrote a regulation to the government of Zoran Djindjic on how to deliver Milosevic. Well, as a reward for that, apparently she's unacceptable to the District Court, they're transferring her to the Supreme Court, and she couldn't wait to be president there. You saw it a few days ago – she criticises the government. Well, who believes that? He can't convince me because I know much better what they're doing and how they work. You can see what all this is about: the provisions on the Supreme Court's website, the principle of legal views, and you have two contradictory provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which these "yellows" will abuse. So it is no wonder: a month ago one judge reached one verdict, and in an identical factual and legal state today, a second verdict is passed. Why? He's threatened with reelection. They're going to re-election, to lustration. Apart from the Serbian Radical Party, which fights re-election, all others agree to be re-election. For what? They don't want to respect the Constitution, the law, they don't want to respect the principles of the United Nations, the European Union. I defend the European Union, God forbid, but I'm gonna have to do it. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7838	Anyone else want a word? Zoran Krasic spoke for 14 minutes and 37 seconds. You have 23 seconds, if you like. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted together to the 38th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The title above Articles 39 and 39 of the amendment was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Vice-President recently read that the Government of the Republic of Serbia (of course, we received this in the government's report, but this is a public address) accepted by the LDP's amendment to Article 38, which refers to the position of the 2nd member. It's about Article 44, which is why I'm not abused, but I'm going to bring it into a relationship in the meantime. Article 38 speaks of the department of judicial practice, and secondly says that "the department of judicial practice monitors and studies the practice of courts and meets judges, judges' assistants and judicial interns with the legal understanding of courts". The colleagues here have suggested that it be added that the department of case law, in addition to all of this, study and practice of international judicial authorities. A very interesting formulation and it would really be good, Mrs. Malovic, to explain to us what you understood under these "International Judiciary Authorities". Is this the Hague tribunal, is it the International Court in The Hague, is that the International Court of Human Rights? Unfortunately, we do not have good practice, or good experience with either of these courts, and we cannot because you, as Krasic would say, are on that European path, to accept everything that smells like Europe, even if it is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, like this. I have warned you before, when I spoke of the amendment of my colleague Zivkova, that you must make sure that the laws adopted in this House must comply with the Constitution. They do not have to be politically in line with the SRS's stances, with the SRS' political programme. We present our views and the programme from this area to the citizens of Serbia and from here and from every other place and explain to the citizens of Serbia how courts would be arranged if Serbian radicals did so. So, we don't insist on it, but when it comes to the compliance of the law with the Constitution, then it's not party programs, nor ideology, nor ideas, it just has to. You're a lawyer and you know it. Any law, constitution, you may like it or not like it. I also said in the afternoon (or already) that my LDP colleagues here have repeatedly said that they ran an anti-constitutional campaign and that there is a very bad constitution in Serbia, but that what is being brought here must be in accordance with the Constitution. As we have a very bad opinion of many of your laws, but every law passed in this parliament for Serbian radicals is a law that must be applied until a new or amended text is brought forward. So I ask you to explain to us what these international judicial authorities are to you and what is good, even if it were in accordance with the Constitution, in the practice of these international judicial bodies which could serve us as some idea of leadership and which could direct our regulations towards those, as you say, organs. Milan Avramovic's amendment refers to Article 44, and this member refers to the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court. The position of the first member states that the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court adopts principled legal views, discusses the application of the law, appoints judges of the Constitutional Court, etc. I don't want to waste my time reading the entire text of this article, because our remark is that it is the general session of the Supreme Court of Cassation that adopts the principled legal views. We have already warned you of this, we warn the assembly majority, when they vote on this law and these amendments, to take care of it. I'm surprised, colleague Ratkovic, since you, as president of the Legislative Committee, have repeatedly written here, of course, counter-businessly, that some amendments are not possible because... but you did not find that they were not in accordance with the law and the Constitution, that you did not draw attention to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this Article 44, as well as to Article 31 and some other members of the Law on the Regulation of Courts, was in fact not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In light of his amendment, Milan Avramovic wrote that Article 142(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes that courts judge on the basis of the Constitution, laws and other general acts. Given that the government of the Republic of Serbia has given a completely identical explanation why it does not accept the amendment of Milan Avramovic, as it also wrote for the amendment of Dragan Zivkov, I will read this explanation and use the same explanation, because the exact text can only be very similar, but essentially the same answer. So you're saying that the amendment is not accepted because it is necessary for the Supreme Court to take principled legal views for the sake of uniform application of law in court. This sentence absolutely means nothing compared to the amendment that we have submitted. We say it needs to be deleted, and you say it's necessary for the Supreme Court to take principled legal views. We would have accepted your explanation if you had given us an argument as to why it was necessary, because you have already been through Article 44, and the preceding Article 31, told us that it was necessary. But this second part of the argument is interesting where you say it is true that what we have written is that "the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 142(2) states that the courts are based on the Constitution, the law and other general acts, but it is," the government said, "on the other hand it is necessary, since those rules are not always precise, to take the principle of legal views to ensure that these rules are uniformly applied. "What does this mean? From your explanation, it is obvious that your intention to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia through the legal practice of the Supreme Cassation Court, you are changing the laws, which you are fully aware of unconstitutional; then, of course, you will come into a situation to say – this is not exactly in accordance with the law, because this law is not in accordance with the Constitution, but the Supreme Court has taken that position and we must respect that position. I repeat what I said when I spoke about the amendment to Dragan Zivkov. I asked, first of all, the public of Serbia what would have happened if this law on the regulation of courts had already been passed and that it had come into force and that it was now being applied, would everyone... This is, above all, because the hours of the judges are mostly over and I would like them to follow Parliament's work, at least when it comes to this topic, first of all because we want to tell them what counterpart Krasic said, that only the SRS is honest and exclusive against lustration and that all judges are on white bread, so that they can be deployed afterwards, i.e. to get these judicial functions at the request of Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Miskovic and others who shake Serbia. So I'm asking, first of all, the judge that this law is in force, the one we're talking about right now, would the judges who care about the profession, who do their job honestly, honestly, in accordance with the law, accept the position of the District Court in Belgrade that, God forbid, the position of the Supreme Court? I am talking about the council of Judges Sladjana Bojovic, Zeljko Skoric and Zivana Djukanovic, who have reached a completely illegal verdict by rejecting the appeal of Djordža Gačevic of Belgrade, the council of the Serbian Radical Party in the City Municipality of Novi Belgrade. How would you get judges to work on such a legal practice when, in this case, we have dozens of decisions by various district judges across Serbia, who made their judgments absolutely in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, with the Law on Local Elections and did not succumb to the influence of those who are trying to end the will of citizens without going to elections? So we have to take care of these exceptions, not to let unconstitutional solutions become judges of the Supreme Casualty Court and that such a trio creates legal practice in Serbia; it means they would completely destroy the legal system, because it is obvious that this judge troika does not judge either by law or by the Constitution. They probably don't care much whether there will be judges or not, for them I suppose you've found some other places, as for your assistant, Mrs. Malovic, who couldn't pass here as a judge. We must take care, first of all, of the interests of the citizens of Serbia. At this moment I speak on behalf of the citizens of Zemun, who expressed their electoral will in the last local elections, and in all others; in the local elections they unequivocally showed that they wanted Zemun to rule in the vast majority of the SRS in a coalition with the DSS. Now you're looking because you're threatening lustration... And, to all the judges who have been given to settle for the complaints of some Zemun citizens in the small brain, there is a fact that these days they are discussing whether or not they will be lustrated, and they know who is now the one who chanstrates judges in Serbia, or who is preparing their lustration. You are now asking that all judges be similar to the regime, that all judges be similar to the executive authority and Boris Tadic, such as Judges Sladjana Bojovic, Zeljko Skoric and Zivana Djukanovic. They are not such judges in Serbia. The vast majority of judges in Serbia want to do their job in accordance with the law; judges want to be independent, the judiciary to be independent and independent, but they have a problem with executive rule. We are also trying to protect these judges, as well as Mrs. Radmila Josipovic, an employee of the Belgrade City Assembly, who yesterday in a conversation with Zivko Jocic, the Zemun municipality secretary, said she should not legally bring in the Statute of the city municipality of Zemun because she was ordered not to do so. I ask her out of here in public, and let her tell us, who ordered her? Yesterday, we asked Mr Milan Markovic to inform us who ordered this lady not to publish legally and legitimately the Statute of the city municipality of Zemun in the Official Journal of the City of Belgrade since 17 November. We haven't got that answer yet. We understand that Mr. Milan Markovic, as an honorable man, must not even ask Dragan Gilas what this is about. So we ask him publicly and openly if he's going to go so far, is this woman's job at risk because, completely unconsciously, in a conversation with her colleague from the Zemun municipality, she put pressure on her? Is it possible that the work of this woman and is it possible that Dragan Gilas will be so morally ruined that only because of his salary at Bezanija's hair, he's already "involved" with Vukic and sold it, now they can't regulate it legally, and they took the money, is that why he will question the judicial system and the legal system of the state of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7840	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 45 and 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is a country that is a long time ago, while those who are now rolling and watering Europe lived in hordes, had a law, it was called Dušan's Code. You have erected the Emperor Dušan's monument, Serbia is grateful for that. See what that monument looks like: Emperor Dushan keeps one side of the law and holds a cannon in the other hand to enforce the law. I remember some passages from Dushan's code, he says, "And judges to judge by law, not by mercy, my kingdoms." So, the same law for both the emperor and the tiniest great man from the Empire of Dushan. However, in this Dushan law, it said that if someone stole it, they cut off his hand. Something I'm thinking, how many of these from the "yellow company" now without both hands or without one hand, only for the eight years since they've been in power. A lot of people would sign like this. Let's put that aside. National MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted an amendment to Article 45 of the Law, which reads: "The title above article 45 and the article 45 is deleted". Article 45: "The general session shall also be convened when a disagreement arises between the majority of the different departments or between different departments in the application of the rules, when in one department a derogation from the principled legal position or when legal understanding cannot be adopted at the session of the department. "Ladies and gentlemen, what are the laws that are so transparent to us that they can be applied without any remainder, if we have to think about how to adopt a legal understanding of the legal provisions? Free will or what is being prepared in the judiciary, in the judiciary - lustration. Those who listen will be able to reach both the Supreme and the Cassation Court, the re-election will be carried out by those who have not resorted to the "yellow company", the ruling nomenclature, having to go to lawyers and I'm afraid there will be a lot of lawyers. Article 142. The constitution that should be the birthplace of all laws, all laws which do not comply with the Constitution must be brought into harmony, cannot be adapted to the laws, but to the laws of the Constitution, says: "The courts are independent and independent in their work and judge by the Constitution, the laws and other general acts, when provided for by law, the general rules of international law and approved international agreements." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which is why the amendment of the People's MP Momčil Duvnjak was not accepted – the amendment is not accepted, and the explanation is the same as for Mr Zivkov's amendment to Article 31. That argument says, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why it is necessary for the Supreme Court of Cassation to take principled legal views, for the sake of uniform application of law in court." Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, if the lower court makes a decision, a verdict that is not in accordance with the law, is either the obligation of the High Court to return the verdict, to comply with the law, or to pass a judgment that will be brought in accordance with the law, and not to give legal opinion, the legal position shall be brought by cassation courts. I believe that many laws have been passed in this country that are not applicable. Here, back in five or six years, it must have been a few dozen laws passed to be laws, to be voted on without being applied immediately in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, this law will do so much turbulence in the judiciary, so much to be brought under question, so many honorable, honest and honest judges will have to go away from the judiciary or to resort to being judged by what the Supreme Court orders, let's say, as ordered by Dragan Gilas, whom I heard, ladies and gentlemen, that he moved into the mayor's office 15 days before he was elected, secretly, at night. They're used to mostly working at night, some socks are drawn to their heads, and when they go at night, they don't really recognize each other. When they go together, so they don't recognize each other. Will we, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, be at one of the next sessions, on a proposal from the Serbian government, on a proposal from the "yellow company" and those strikers, as one MP said while he was an SRS MP and spoke to another parliamentary group - you are the strikers of this "yellow company", the supporters of this "yellow company"... Will at the request of the "yellow company" and new strikers Zeljko Skoric, Sladjana Bojovic and Zivana Djukanovic be proposed for, say, the Supreme Cassation Court? It wouldn't surprise me. This is what people listen to. They're not judging by the law, they're listening to what Dad says, even if it's Dragan Gilas. What happened in Zemun and what's happening now, that attack on democracy, that attack at the will of the citizens has never been seen before. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, not by law, but by listening to Dad try to, in addition to the clearly expressed will, in addition to the legal procedure, cancel the will of the citizens. I don't think that's gonna work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the MP should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7842	Anyone else want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. The SRS parliamentary group has eight minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the MP of the SRS Mr Momcilo Duvnjak has seen a provision in this law that is contrary to the Constitution and of course the amendment intervened to fix it. I must express my dissent, which is not great, with my colleague Zoran Krasic. Mr. Krasic, you said the ideologist was Srdjan Milivojevic. You know why Momchilo Duvnjak isn't in a position to defend his amendment? For the reason that the citizens of Kruševec have shown confidence in the SRS, it solves some of the life issues and problems of the town of Kruševec. Who knows us best? Those citizens in the middle of where we are and where we live. You can see that they have not trusted Srdjan Milivojevic. That makes me a bit suspicious not of your legal views, they're absolutely correct, but in that claim from last night, I doubt it. But I'm coming back, of course, to the amendment. The amendment submitted by his colleague Duvnjak refers to the Supreme Casation Court. He suggested that Article 45, along with the title above that article, be deleted. According to the SRS concept, as we consider solving the problem of the judiciary, the Supreme Court of Cassation can be acceptable. Its jurisdiction, its establishment, its workaround and composition and its possibility, according to the Constitution, that it elects and the Constitutional Court are not disputed, but it is the establishment of opportunities for the Supreme Cassation Court to adopt principles. You know what, what would you say, Mrs. Comic, what does that look like? This looks like transferring the legislative opportunity to the Supreme Cassation Court. What are you doing this for? You don't take everything, you take something back, but you should always get rid of what you do as soon as you get back. What do you want by taking from the Supreme Cassation Court and the judicial authorities at all? You want to take no action alone, but final decisions. If you're already taking that, then you want to repay yourself, and you tell the Supreme Cassation Court that he has the opportunity to deal with legislative activity. How? By establishing principled legal positions. It's not about tradition, legal, historical or any other tradition, it's about ad hoc solutions to the problem. If the Supreme Court of Cassation were to act on complaints from the councilors concerning the Law on Local Elections, it would probably take a general session and bring a principled position on how, in addition to what the District Court did in Kragujevac, as well as in Jagodina and Belgrade, it would be a practice, both mandatory and for other courts. You see, fellow Momcilo Duvnjak recognized it and opposed it, as did the entire SRS parliamentary group. The government has been explaining itself, and already my colleagues have been saying this, calling for an explanation that has been given on several amendments submitted by the SRS MPs. You say and admit that, on the basis of the Constitution, Article 142(2), the courts are based on the Constitution, the law, the general legal acts and international contracts that are recognised. I find this very interesting, you say – on the other hand, it is necessary, since these rules are not always precise, to take principled legal views in order to uniformly apply the rules. They are not always precise, very often regulations that the congregation’s majority of adoptions are not precise. Here, one of the MPs from the district court in Sapac has tabled over ten amendments to a set of laws in the area of justice. None of them have been accepted, and I'm sure that MP will vote for these laws. That's not good. He himself has seen the mistakes and shortcomings of these proposals, but he will vote for them. You fellow MPs don't even think about helping the government the way it is. She's trying to fool the citizens, trying to bring confusion into the justice system. If this National Assembly as the most legislative body should protect something, in addition to individual rights, it is to create good preconditions for an independent, third, very important, branch of government, and that is judicial authority. For it applies its knowledge and practice to one branch and to another; in case those who are messengers of the people and those who exercise executive power do not obey the law, the judicial authority shall also apply to them. Instead of creating them good conditions... And we will create good conditions if we make good laws. If that is not the case, they will not have a good legal framework that they can comply with their constitutional obligations. The fact is that this law is not good, and it also indicates that a total of 53 amendments have been submitted to this law, and 19 of them have been accepted. Madam Minister, the SRS MP group appreciates your tenacity to attend the National Assembly session, but you have praised these laws as perfect, as if they lack almost nothing, and now you see through this - only 19 amendments have been adopted. Almost everyone could be accepted, they would sort of improve the text, it is possible, although it disagrees entirely with the Serbian Radical Party's concept. If this amendment is not accepted and this article is not deleted in 45th, along with the title above that article, we are slowly introducing the tribunal into the Serbian judiciary. And you're very much like this UN tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7844	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be possible. The word has the People's MP Milica Vojic-Markovic
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7845	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs Donka Banovic and I have submitted an amendment before the DSS Group to Article 49, which reads: "The Secretary-General of the Court shall be chaired by the Secretary-General, who shall hold a general session on a proposal from the President of the Court. The Secretary of the Supreme Cassation Court has the status of a state official in office. The Secretary of the Supreme Cassation Court can only be one who meets the requirements of the Court of Appeal. "So our amendment consists of a position 2, according to our proposal, being deleted, means this part: "The Secretary of the Supreme Cassation Court has the status of a state official in office. "We have received a reply from the government and from the Committee on Justice who say they do not accept this amendment, although the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. So, the answer we have received says that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why it is necessary for the Secretary of the Supreme Cassation Court, as the highest court in the Republic of Serbia, to have civil servant status in place, which would suit the importance of its function, in accordance with certain laws of another kind. Although the Legislative Committee says it is possible, I think it is cohesion. So, on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, Mrs. Donka Banovic and I wanted to finally start applying what this government is saying and what is necessary, and that is actually saving. It's obvious here that the state produces more and more government officials, even though there are so many today that it's not even polite to say it. What is also very important is that we, as a country that wants to go to the European community, have accepted a series of measures such as reducing the number of employees in the administration, state officials and reducing the number of employees in the state apparatus, and what is constantly surprising to us is that with every new bill coming from the Government of the People's MPs, we see that the government is constantly increasing this apparatus and that we have new state officials, new employees in the administration, in the ministries, etc. When the budget rebalancing was ahead of us, we, as MPs of the opposition, were constantly pointing to the fact that the apparatus was becoming inappropriately large. It is also very strange that the government, which represents itself as a socially responsible person, must save for several reasons, and one of them is the big global crisis, which has obviously come into our country, although many ministers have responsibly claimed there is no chance of coming to us and that it will bring us good. It is definitely here, many workers are fired, in many companies we have a very restrictive budget, at least as the media say, and the government does not refer to the situation as it requires. On the other hand, what we expect from one government that says to itself that the Socially Responsible Authority is austerity measures. These austerity measures must be felt on the budget by reducing the number of state officials, because, excuse me, the responsible government must rationally spend the budget, the funds of all Serbian citizens. These are not assets that are to be spent constantly on supporting permanent state officials. Now that I mention the budget, and this amendment is about that budget, I must say that we MPs are constantly getting information from the media that the budget is extremely restrictive. So today is November 20th, on November 1st, every MP in this National Assembly had to have a document called the 2009 Serbian budget, and today we don't have it. There is no Minister of Finance or Prime Minister in front of us to explain what this is all about. So what I'm saying now may not even be true, given that I've been informed from the media, as well as all the other MPs. So, we definitely understand one thing: the budget is restrictive, social spending is reduced in agriculture, tourism is reduced, subsidies from the field of social giving are reduced by 25%. It is simply amazing that it is being saved in courts, that 39 general courts will not exist, will be abolished, that we will have 300-400 judges less, because this re-election will go towards it; that the donations for the military will be reduced by three billion because we have reforms in the military; that pensioners will be reduced, and pre-election promises are made so lightly; that students do not know when they will enter the year because they do not know the budget. The savings are joined by Minister Dulic with advice that we should save electricity, turn off lights, bathe at night, wash at night. Thank you Minister for understanding us, but there is simply no need for that, because we all went through the period when current coalition partners of Minister Dulic taught us to save on those impossible things, such as some of the most common things for life. They also taught us that we don't have electricity for 20 hours, so just thank you Minister, the advice is advice. On the other hand, what's also amazing is that right now it's not only the government that's saving. Her budget is wasteful. That's why our proposal, please don't give us any more draft laws in which every civil servant will become a civil servant.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7846	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I think you should have accepted the amendment between Mrs. Donka Banović and Milice Vojic-Markovic, because we have long pointed out the problem our country faced, especially since 2000, because of the enormous increase in the number of state officials. We have provided you with some information that only since 2001 until the end of 2004 has almost 3.5 times increased the number of civil servants. We've also been giving you almost a year's data on the salaries of people who are employed in public enterprises, in boards, about directors, for board presidents, supervisory boards. It's so much money that it's just astounding that in a state that faces bankruptcy, if it hasn't gone bankrupt... Well, they'll probably let us know. I remember some earlier periods, '81. years, when the state practically announced bankruptcy. I think this one went bankrupt a long time ago. We just have to wait for them to let us know. Instead of making a maximum effort to streamline with existing, available workers and in every way possible jobs you have done in accordance with the law, you increase the number of employees, while the state and the state administration only do their job worse. At every step of the way, it's visible. I'm already here once, when the law on public procurement was proposed, I said -- it's not worth the law to us, we can pass whatever law you want, mostly translate it, or copy it, it's absolutely not worth it, because it's basically not gonna mean anything when it comes to our country. All attempts to sort out problems related to the functioning of the rule of law are not on the concrete wall, but on the reinforced concrete wall, it is practically impossible to solve anything in accordance with the law. Here, you have this problem which the Serbian Radical Party has now faced, regarding the kidnapping of the mandate: although the Constitution is clear, the law is clear, although the judgments have already been passed, you have judges who only take care to carry out the tasks of the current authorities, and everyone knows that the current authority in every way sees it abuses the judiciary, abuses all state authorities. When it comes to Dragan Gilas, there is no one in this country to be particularly convinced of what he is prepared for. You of the Democratic Party know that best. They best know what Dragan Gilas is like and what he's capable of. That's the problem, Madam Minister, which we face all the time. You think something will improve by passing this law or any other law? He won't. I'll prove it to you on examples. You know, we have a law on free access to information and you know that it is the obligation of all those who fall under this law to give answers to questions under that law. Here, I happen to have a question here asked by the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. The issue was addressed on November 4th, which refers to 4,300 criminal cases, which, according to Boris Tadic, have become obsolete and in which the limitation of the execution of the sentence has taken place. That's what the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic said. Now, you know that according to the Law on Regulating Courts, under the former law, Article 66 provides that the collection of statistical and other data and monitoring of the work of courts, as well as the supervision of the handling of cases within the prescribed time limits, is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. Look, your ministry is not giving an answer. The Supreme Court replied in November 4 to 10, within six days. What about your ministry? Now let's ask a simple question, 4,300 items that are obsolete or because of unconscious work... As far as this unconscious work is concerned, it is very easy to assume that corruption or bribery is involved, especially when it comes to the non-execution of those who should have responded because they have already been tried by law, etc. Madam Minister, instead of this being the most serious reason for your ministry to go... Because this is an extremely large sample; I now have no data on how many cases are processed annually in our judiciary, but I guarantee that 4,600 cases are a solid statistical sample based on which you can even come up with some legality, and especially you can come up with data when it comes to certain courts, judges, prosecutors and, based on these findings, you take certain steps. What kind of state are we if there are 4,600 items out of date? What about the prosecution? Do you know how many Serbian Radical Party have filed criminal charges and there are no statements to this day? You know, it's the public prosecutors who are essentially running things. Among other things, yesterday I presented, you were not at the session at the time, facts related to the findings of state inspections related to the former Ministry of Trade and Tourism. There have been indisputable facts that the crime of abuse of official office, that large funds have been transferred abroad, and have been returned to one university. It's just one piece. I have already heard from many today who say it is the tip of the iceberg, that crime in the ministry has reached such a situation that they simply don't understand that the state has not responded by now. Among other things, I have made you wait for the decision of the President of the Republic of Serbia, whether it will allow the case to be completed, only waiting to be released, as it would say, in the procedure, to receive a signature, or a blessing from the President of the Republic. How, then, can you convince, first of all, the MPs in the Serbian Parliament, and then Serbian citizens that any law will be able to solve any problem? You won't, there's no theoretical chance you'll solve anything. I keep saying, you're just satisfying the shape, it's important to you. You're going from the election cycle to the election cycle. The basic strategy is how to deceive Serbian citizens. You could have heard in this assembly, say, for the current Prime Minister, former Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, so many lies that this man made in the 2008 election campaign. Mr. Batic, if you don't believe it, I'll repeat it to you, and I think I'm sure you've had the opportunity to see what a liar it is. The interior minister, for example, claimed in March, or April, that Serbia would arrive at the end of 2008, on the White Schengen list, and the minister read to us that there were still some twenty change things to be done so that we would have the opportunity to come to the White Schengen list and the information that we would come in 2010. It speaks of the character of this government, of the people who are in power. Now they're not interested in anything else. They only believe that they will try to re-election and deceive Serbian citizens in the next elections. Their main strategists only do this, researching public opinion on what citizens would like, and then they start making passwords, sending messages about what they would do if citizens voted for them. In line with that, you are always convincing from this Serbian citizen's pay phone that you are going to Europe. The train of beatings, but there are some who are holding it back, who do not allow you to bring Serbia into Europe and that finally the citizens of Serbia live better. Europe tells you - we don't want you to be who you are. See what happened to Bulgaria: Bulgaria enters Europe, and they are denied 800m euros due to corruption. They won't give you one single cent for at least ten years, until all the corruption and criminal affairs you've been involved in since 2000 are investigated. They know all that. Do you think they don't know who steals everything in this country, who takes percentages, that they're not informed about it? Well, that's all the representatives of their companies who come here and who want to do something; they go straight to the embassy and say, you know, we went there and they told us -- if you want to get permission, you have to go there, and you have to pay that much and that percentage, and then you can do anything. Among other things, the best example is Zrenjanin. The man who won the award as the best president of the municipality in the last year... That doesn't apply to prison, because it's so competitive that the competition could reopen and see which one is best among them. Maybe the citizens thought at the moment – here, finally, the "yellow company" decided to meet the obligations and deal with crime. However, it is not, they are counting on each other because Mr. Knezevic was intruding Mr. Pajtic so he had to... Look, no "yellow" functionor is the problem of finding anything, you just come in, you take the documents, you take the advances, and the first review gives you the opportunity to file serious criminal charges. Among other things, there will be opportunities for the assembly to hear that in Belgrade, not only did Mr. Knezevic, share land permits for pumps, as many pumps were in Belgrade's territory. You will also have the opportunity to hear about one of the biggest affairs and robberies committed in Serbia, which is the question of the Uste Palace. It's just amazing what's been done and who's been involved in the sale of the Ustasha Palace by the official state institutions. There's even a fake contest in "Politics." The reconstruction has led to the sale of the facility; it needs to collapse, and then from some 18,000 squares to 172,000 squares, then something above the ground, something under the ground... No wonder Bozidar Djelic ended up with only 11m euros in Meridian Bank, because how many had to split the commission, it's a small thing. Thank you. I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7848	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, New Serbia fully supports Donka Banovic's amendment, the DSS MPs. It is totally unacceptable that the ruling coalition cannot understand that in such situations a competition must be respected when selecting someone who has the status of a civil servant in a position. So they can't be direct setups. We had a similar situation: when we elected the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, when we passed the law, the deputy was to be appointed by the director in that case, so you accepted the New Serbia amendment that it must be in competition. Madam Minister, in order for someone to gain the status of a civil servant in a position, a contest must take place. We don't see anywhere here in this article 49 that there's going to be a competition. He says, "The secretary of the court is led by the secretary of the court, who, on a proposal from the president of the court, sets up a general session. "It could stand – the secretary-in-chief of the court, who, on a proposal from the president of the court, is elected by the council after the completion of the competition. It's a complete inaccuracy and it's impossible that you can't understand it once already; we pointed out that when we chose the director, you respected New Serbia's amendment, you accepted the amendment that the deputy director was also elected by competition. This is unacceptable. Also, you can't see what the status of a civil servant in a position, which is the category, is that the first category, second category, third category, fourth category. We don't see that. You will be in a position, if the first category of civil servant is in place, that this secretary of the court will have a higher salary than the President himself. They are illogical and it is absolutely unacceptable, so I think that the amendment to Donka Banovic should have been accepted. New Serbia cannot agree with this, so we will surely support this amendment. I think the amendment is good, comprehensive, and I need to erase this second attitude until things match. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7850	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 52. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 52. Proposal for a court-ordered law. Madam Minister, the government has not accepted the amendment. If you do, I don't mind, you can shorten the time of my discussion. If not, I will speak until you agree that the amendment has been accepted. It's really done and it makes sense to be accepted. Why did I submit this amendment? For the reason that Article 52 of this Law, on the judicial administration, is provided for in paragraph 3: "The court has one or more Deputy Presidents of the Court, who replaces the President of the Court in the event of prevention or absence. "The government's explanation for which this amendment has not been adopted says: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the more comprehensive provision of Article 52(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not accepted. The draft law, given the new organisation of courts and the possibility of a court having a large number of judges, i.e. judicial departments outside the court or judicial units. "Miss Minister, I ask you, does the court, in addition to regular treatment, therefore, which is why he is established under the Constitution and by other regulations, may have regional economic development, employment services or perhaps ski resorts, so that we need two or more deputy court presidents? Because we have one ministry that has all this in its job description and we have seven or eight secretary of state. I think that, regardless of the size, or number of judges in one court, whether it is a basic, higher, appeal or Supreme Cassation Court or some courts of special jurisdiction, next to the President of the Court, is quite enough one deputy, because the President of the Court represents a court, takes care of the legality of the work of the court, determines defenders by official duty and by alphabetical order, bearing in mind what they have received from the Association of Lawyers. By the way, all I'm asking you is, is it planned to pass a law on law on law-making in the recent period of time, since in 2005, there was one proposal in the assembly procedure, and then it was withdrawn? I think this area would be arranged in a very good way if the law was passed. I can only assume why this bill contains one or more vice presidents. No need, functionally observed, the court can work well and successfully if there is only the President of the Court and one deputy. But if you have entered the story or the procedure that you are now designing under this law should exist in the courts, then perhaps some inter-party arrangements should be implemented, I only recognize that motive for the installation of such a provision that besides the President of the Court there are more deputies of the President of the Court. Otherwise, no other legally valid reason exists. In addition to the cases in the judiciary, the judiciary has other affairs: a trial schedule is being conducted, accounting affairs are being handled, criminal sanctions are being carried out, but all these can be done by the president and the deputy president of the court. I think this amendment is worth accepting. Then the rationalisation that you and fellow MPs who support this set of laws would speak in the debate on the principle would make sense; it would mean, if we were to approach rationalization in this way and if we didn't build up the elders' staff, if we could say so, in the judicial administration. We're going to need, perhaps, a number of high-quality judges. We certainly have them both among the existing judges and among those who would be happy to work in the area of justice, but you, and I always say that, since 2000, have carried out negative selections in the area of justice and freed themselves of the highest quality personnel, who went to other functions or to a lawyer, and you left in the justice system those who were party listeners and the like. So we had, given that judges could not be members of political parties, unofficially presidents of municipal committees – not a member of the party officially, but they were the presidents of the courts and mainly carried out the tasks of political parties. Such a relationship with the judiciary and with the presidents of the courts certainly leaves no bright spot and does not indicate that there will be any reform in the area of justice. We can pass the best laws, and what you've proposed now, responsibly, is not good laws, but despite these laws, we're going to have to take a lot of care of the people in the area of justice and there's no problem. You're breaking the Constitution and you're breaking up and you're bringing down something else. We were able to resolve this, or you were able to resolve it by proposing proceedings against judges who were not worthy of such functions or those who were not professional enough to perform a judicial function. Speaking in the afternoon section on an amendment to the draft law on the regulation of courts, I said that we have an example that a man who is on day 21. 8. In 2006, he was 40 years old, six months and three days of retirement training was not retired, but was fired. It's not your case, but it's an executive's relationship to the citizens, to the employees. To make the tragedy even bigger, it's about a man who worked in the Army. This is what our relationship with the military is like, with something that the Serbian people can appreciate and speak positively about. Boris Tadic's arrival at the head of the military ministry began to collapse, so, of course, with Davinic continued and today is no better, the situation has been catastrophic since the ministry led by Dragan Sutanovac. Madam Minister, I think I've given you enough reason and convinced you that this amendment should be accepted in order to be accepted in the area of the judiciary, especially when it comes to the court's elders, to take care of the savings and the arrangements of the relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7852	I thank Mr. Peric. Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Pop-Lazic, then Mr. Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7853	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, I must say that at the very least I feel sorry for the students of equal school. Since 2000, we've actually started since 2002... We've got a former Minister Batic on the way. I don't know how many times we've had these judicial laws on the agenda, and, if you believe me, I've followed them mostly, and now I'm having a hard time following it, and I don't see the end of changing the justice system and harmonising our justice system with the EU's wishes. We don't seem to understand that there's something that's ours and good, but we have to take someone else's even though it's bad. I'm going to give you an example of how far into your ears, probably following the work of the UN tribunal, which is a quasi-sud, I'm looking here to see if you've predicted in this law maybe even that court server. He's very often engaged in those processes. The Secretariat has its responsibilities, but often the judge says - please ask the server to add, take, bring such a thing. We used to have servers, at Nusic's time, but they lit fire in the courtroom, and they didn't do these kinds of jobs. Where did you see that someone had more deputies with the same powers? We have the President of the Assembly. He has vice presidents. We have the Prime Minister. He has vice presidents. However, one wanted to be a deputy, but he couldn't because of the Constitution, so the first vice president, that's what he called himself. You said it was because there are more departments, but there are department heads. How long will we go with redefining our judicial system and when will you from the west who control you, educate or lead to those schools in Canada and Austria say much more, no more work? Our justice is getting worse and worse. It's getting worse and worse. I'd like to get you back to law school, at least to be a professor, you don't have to be a student, so I'd like to see how many books you have to write a yearly or every year a book so you can follow what's going on with us in criminal law, in procedural law, civil law. I really don't see the need for you to discuss the organisation of the judiciary to this extent, and we've already seen that you're not able to implement a lot of things afterwards, considering and establishing some courts. It's three years old that some courts were supposed to be established, so they didn't. Neither this law nor this set of laws nor many other laws are a condition, you know very well, to join the EU. We can't join the EU like this. What we need to ask ourselves today is why is the euro so valuable? What's the governor of the National Bank doing? How many million or how many tens of millions of euros a day from the reserves does he have to hire to keep the euro at this level? This may be a good question, to ask the governor or the finance minister -- how many million euros a day from the reserve are being hired to maintain the course of the dinar? How much inflation is that really, how long is that going to take, and are we in front of bankruptcy? I'd say if we did, the citizens would see that and hence the apathy and hopelessness of the citizens you see. And we don't give them enough strength to endure, or they don't see that it might be better. For what? Because everyone in pre-election campaigns is lying to them, milking them, using the media in various ways. I tried to explain it this morning or yesterday - with money you can do anything, make a good ad, sell a product, and how good it is you'll see when you start to consume it. That's what politics is about, because no one or most politicians have a responsibility here, or because we've come to terms with it, and so have many of you sitting here, that in politics absolutely everything is allowed, that morale is the last thing you need to pay attention to, and especially responsibility to voters. I think this amendment is good, that it should have been accepted, as I think many amendments that have been accepted, and not a small number of such amendments, which means that your law is very bad and that you've received or received an ex post mind, or this is just a Resave school, that you haven't really... Not you as a minister, I know you don't write it, I was a minister, so you got some material and you could give directions, which way to go. They were working people who were probably in charge of it at the Ministry, but there are much smarter heads here. You know, I don't want to underestimate judges. Many judges, I don't want to enter your biography either, come to the functions of judges of very high courts, and before that they may not have had ten convictions, but they have been very often with the Society of Judges or independently on various instructions throughout the world. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Unfortunately, our judges are not going from county to county court because they are good, because they have good results, but because they have completed some courses that need to be completed. As long as it's done, we won't have a good judicial system, not a judicial branch of the government will be independent, it won't work by the Constitution and the law, but, behold, here in this law you invent even some new sources of law... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... So I think there's really going to be a lot of commitment in front of the teachers who might have to, maybe even for this test deadline in June of the month, write new books, or there'll be a lot of students who'll fall. And not to mention what kind of trouble it's going to be in the very functioning of everything you imagined in the set of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7854	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dragan Todorovic answered. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7855	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to congratulate the ruling majority on the new coalition partner. According to the latest information, the government has appointed Mr. St. Opposite for the ambassador. I think that this has given our diplomacy an exceptional quality, especially in weight, at least one hundred and a few pounds; it is, I think, extremely important for you now to get stronger, support yourself from all sides, and now you can really take that song, "Nothing can happen to us." You've done everything to ensure yourself in every way possible, but make sure you don't get into a situation where you need one single vote, just in case. I understand. You can't exactly rely on the ones you count on. You count, if they could betray us after 18 years, which they wouldn't betray you. So this is the safest thing. No, it's not a habit, it's a money thing. Mr. Jojic, you have to know that it's only for money, it's serious stuff, so there's no habit at all. And if it's a habit, money is taken just in case, so there's no dilemma about it. Here, you see how transparent this new Tadic government is, how it makes sure that in every segment it shows how much it really cares that it really has high-quality representatives of our country. You are aware of the fact that since 2000, our diplomacy has experienced a gradual Sunflower. There's all kinds of cooks, hairdressers, doctors, not to mention who gets all the ambassadorial seats, some for money, some for being long-time friends. Just remember Radet Stojanovic, who became an ambassador to The Hague - a man who does not leave the house until he "cuts" a Johnny Walker, because otherwise he cannot communicate. How can such a man represent our country? (President: Time.) Here I go. That's what you're showing this path you're going on. Thank you very much and forgive me for this overrun. (President: I've forgiven you for that, but you haven't told me by which member you've contacted. ) Pursuant to Articles 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7856	Thank you. A little later. We're continuing our work. The 55th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7857	Of course, I have no intention of spoiling what the gentleman wrote in his amendment, but I am taking the opportunity, given this text, to point to all the bad solutions in the bill, and I will now very specifically explain it to people to understand that, because people are watching the Second Program. Watch the Second Program, especially tonight at 10 o'clock, will be the transfer of the trial to Vojislav Seselj, there will be lots of interesting things. So it's an amendment to Article 56(1). The amendmentr asks for attitude 1 to be changed, so it reads: "The court that has at least ten judges has a court secretary. "It is likely in this drive of rationalisation and efficiency, given that the original text of Article 56(1) reads: "The court may have a court secretary". Of course, the amendment was intended to bring something to order, as different variations in the appearance of the court and court level are possible. There's one thing I can't possibly figure out: why, ever since democracy hit us, the words "can," "can" be used uncritically? The court is by definition a state body and it has or does not have; it cannot be a situation – it can. No, it's not. It's not a legal formula. The text of the law is not free literary work, so to speak – what it used metaphors, style figures, five minus. It can't. The norm needs to be precise and clear. However, I note here that the problem stems from the previous provisions of this law. Now I'm going to point out to the public, especially the Society of Judges, because they like to be smart, some things that I don't think they could be in the law, no matter what the law is. What they did couldn't be. I will take, for example, Articles 49, 2 and 3. Article 49 refers to the Office of the Supreme Cassation Court and, to be more precise, to the Secretary of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Article 49 of Article 2 states that he has the status of a civil servant and is likely not so ill written, since he works in the judicial administration. Paragraph 3 states which conditions are to be met by the Supreme Court secretary and these conditions are identical to those required for the Court of Appeal's judge. Practically, it's the only provision that sort of defines the conditions to be met by the secretary, specifically the Secretary of Cassation Court. In Article 56, we're talking about the Secretary of the Court. When it comes to the secretary of the court, it is thought of as the secretary of the primary, senior, appeal, economic, misdemeanor, senior business, senior offender, etc. However, there is no provision here that defines which conditions are to be met by the secretary. Later, some provisions suggest a working relationship when it comes to court employees, and they are not judges. However, when it comes to the court's secretary, no condition is prescribed for him to meet. Moreover, in the position of Article 3 56, there is something that is an orderly nonsense: "The court secretary is being deployed by the President of the Court". I guess he's in for a contest. You have provisions to apply the Law on civil servants and tenants to all other posts in court. So there's a competition being held for the proper job of the secretary of the court. What conditions should it meet? They can't be the conditions needed for civil servants. You must prescribe the terms of this law. You're the only one with the Secretary of the Supreme Court of Cassation that's the terms of the court's appeal. These provisions concerning the judicial administration apply to all courts, and to general jurisdiction and special jurisdiction, and to all levels, as you have said, completely unnecessary - the republican rank. All courts are Republic rank. If you said "republic rank," who are these others? No province, no municipal, no NATO rank, no NASA rank, no Western Balkans rank. All courts are a republican rank, but when the mind comes to mind, then we read nonsense. Now let me go back to that provision: "one or more vice presidents of the court." What does that mean? If someone's a deputy, he can only be one. If there's more then they're vice presidents, but in court they can't be vice presidents. There must be someone who's a deputy, but there's one. Be careful with the deputies, we've got one, "Smoky", destroys us completely, hires us, goes, block accounts, bills come, no one can handle it anymore. We count 68 million when he says in the paper, "I owe you 260 million." You laugh, but you keep it here. Just smile and shake like parkinsons, no problem. Last time he laughs, he laughs the cutest. It can't if you want to make the law as a general act that contains objective norms and deserves some application that reflects the system of values. When we read these bill proposals of yours we see that there is only one system of values, which is a system of values that corresponds to interests, current, daily, that minute, and seconds, for the next month, the Democratic Party. This morning when I was coming to the Assembly, and I came first here, I was amazed to see that there was an ad on the door, saying, "I've been calling for the government for a month. I pay what they need. It takes me a month to finish a job. "Maybe tomorrow I'll come across the ad, "I'm calling for a two-month-long government competition, "and I need to finish some work." Why two months? It's supposed to go through the land books, so it takes a little bit more time. You've devalued so much what is an organization of the state, what are state authorities. Listen to me, the most embarrassing that the National Assembly could experience was those provisions that had just been commented on, concerning principled legal attitudes and legal understanding. Again because of the Society of Judges, to understand, because they just -- re-election, but it's a fol. So that you may see what passes through this law; these will arrange for the judiciary, but you know how there will be no more. It's their idea. To see what the smart heads of the Democratic Party have come up with. They say like this: "Internal Regulation of the Supreme Casation Court", so there is a member - Departments of the Supreme Cassation Court, so there is a member - session of the Supreme Cassation Court, then - General session of the Supreme Cassation Court, a member of the section, that is Article 44, then - adoption of principled legal positions, so - Composition and decision-making. So, in a member of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, they have elaborated provisions concerning only general principles of law. Watch as Article 45 begins: "The general session is convened and when between the councils... ". It is not true, the General Session is also convened on other issues, concerning candidates for the Constitutional Court, etc. The general session does not exist for these other matters. See Article 46, who makes a general session; then convocation and session management; then the Secretariat, within the secretariats and the workaround, secretary; then the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Cassation Court. We may not be understood about these legal views, legal understanding and principled legal views. It's not a problem. Both are required for the uniform application of the rules, in order to be tried by the Constitution and the law. It is not true, as you said, that the law is not legally perfect, so an opinion or attitude is needed. No, that's not the reason. It is sometimes in the orderly judiciary of support, post-carrots and assistance for equating judicial practice, so that this does not happen which Serbian Radical Party MPs have been talking about for two days. They're talking about the same legal thing, in the same factual state, that the same judge is making different judgments. You don't need that kind of equation. You need to make these legal principles a precedent that will be binding on judges, so it is possible to become a binding precedent of that situation, not to comment on it, because it is a little complicated. Yesterday I spoke to Minister Milan Markovic. He grabbed his head and said, "The court has ruled against an explicit legal provision." It's so obvious. This government says - we have to make them respect the Constitution. So wait, does the Government respect the Constitution, does the National Assembly respect the Constitution? Why don't you respect Article 102(2)? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? No, that's where you smile, rub your hands, like fine. No problem, what we've moved across the back, you're not such a burden, and a great Milosevic, and a Djindjic strong, etc. We'll take you down as well. We warn you, you give court practice, you give parliamentary practice, you give everyone a message -- you have 126 and you can do whatever you want. What did Hope say a few days ago, nervous? Oh, I'm gonna kick all of you out of the National Assembly, you radicals. When he told someone that sentence, where's the room for the Constitution, the law, the court? Force, violence, I'm not surprised. I know how you came - in arson, fights, etc. This country suffers, and we have come precisely because of this -- to prevent, disable, warn, brand, let it know that the source of complete evil in this Serbia is in that group around the Democratic Party. Since Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic is here as an ideologist, he will deny it all nicely. I see, it stings on this laptop, probably making agendas with life topics for citizens of the Republic of Serbia: how to save everyone who was in the bankruptcy mafia in custody? The Srdjan Milivojevic coalition and Dusan Petrovic effectively freed all friends from being in custody. Bravo, master! The next question that will be, Mr. Milivojevic, concerns the pensioner's appeal to prevent the pension disaster due to Dinkic's law. That, Mr. Milivojevic, to get off your laptop, to give a clear program that Kosovo and Metohija should be part of Serbia, to make it clear to all Serbian citizens and all of your burgers in Krusevec that you will be guaranteed that Vojvodina will not secede. You, Mr. Milivojevic, here you are, I call you and support you for these life issues; raise your voice against this law on the regulation of courts where bad solutions are given. You, the great human rights fighter, you, chief ideologist Boris Tadic. Well, Boris Tadic can't do anything without you. (President: Thank you. You are the almighty eye and ear that whispers to him that he makes these epochal moves. Please give your word to the ideologist of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7858	The 56th Amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of Chapter V, the title above Article 57 and Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, MP of the SRS Mr. Boris Aleksic has tabled an amendment to the draft law on the regulation of courts, to Article 57. He proposed that certain corrections and amendments be made in Article 57. Namely, Chapter V of the Judicial Staff, Title - Composition and number of court staff, Article 57 reads: "Court staff consists of judicial assistants, judicial interns and civil servants and deputies employed by administrative, technical, accounting, information and other accompanying affairs significant for judicial authority. The number of court staff shall be determined by the President of the Court by means of an act on the internal arrangement and systematisation of court posts, in accordance with the Staff Plan. The criteria for determining the number of judicial staff shall be determined by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. "Ladies and gentlemen, this word is not in use in the Serbian people, so it is proposed that instead of "judgment staff" it be defined as "person employed in court" in an appropriate decline. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe that this should be changed and that this amendment should be accepted, because this is in tradition, the term only with us, in the Serbian people. Next, watch out, in section 38 of the case law... This is what I want to link to those strong provisions and articles that regulate that the Supreme Court of Cassation has the right to determine and bring principled legal views. Be careful, it is not clear, I ask that the motionary explain to the MPs, in Article 38, it says that the judicial practice department is led by a judge appointed by the President of the Court. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is now being raised for the promoter - how is his working time regulated? Will the judge who manages court practice and judge? Who will, in what form, regulate? Should it have been legal, or will it be the President of the Court himself to determine in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? In this regard, as regards Article 43, when it comes to the session of the Supreme Cassation Court, it is again about legal views, principles, determination and jurisdiction. In Article 44. The Supreme Cassation Court is authorised to adopt principled legal positions that oblige all courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Article 45 - The adoption of principled legal positions states: "The main legal position adopted at the general session obliges all the higher and departments of the Supreme Cassation Court and can only be changed at the general session. "What are we going to do if one department singles out their opinions? What's he gonna do in civil law if one department singles out? I reminded you that in the Federal Republic of Germany it was regulated only through uniform court practice, with unique court practice being the representatives of the courts, not just one court. Article 20 of this proposal provides for a time for judicial action. This is disputed: "Courts are taken every day of the work, and actions that do not endure delay, and in the days when the judgment does not work. The Rules of Procedure shall determine the judicial actions to be taken on the days when it is not working. The Rules of Procedure determines which judicial actions are taken in judicial units outside the seat of the basic and commercial courts. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked one question the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia the other day, but I don't get the answer, we're far away, apparently. I asked Mrs. Vida Shkero, President of the Supreme Court, that on the basis of my authority... Because the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice are brought by the President of the Supreme Court, which means he must establish his working time. The courts in Belgrade are operating from half eight to half four. I had a chance this morning to see a new inscription and a new one, on paper printed, a parole - the court's working hours is from 7.45; working with the parties until 13.00 hours. Do the courts work between 7:30 and 3:30 or do they do it the way someone in a court of law does? If working hours are prescribed by law, then no one can work part-time, and working with parties must cover all the time prescribed for work. So, in these cases, the citizens won't be able to verify the contract, verify the statement, won't be able to extract a copy of the land book, won't be able to get into the office, won't be able to get an insight into the case. In this way, citizens have been disproved and they have been denied the right to enter and exercise their rights during full-time work. As far as the judge's work is concerned, that's another question, but this concerns the judiciary. So, the presidents of the courts have to point out the table at the entrance to the court that he has to write on from when to when the court works. I therefore also call on the President of the Supreme Court to re-supervise his departments and committees and see if the courts apply the rules of procedure brought by the President of the Supreme Court. In this way, only the unity of the authorities and the uniform principle of the trial can be established. When it comes to judges, Madam Minister, I had a chance to talk to citizens in a settlement in the municipality of Alibunar. A citizen named Musta Jon, a Romanian nationality, from the village of Vladimirovci, the municipality of Alibunar, complains to me and says – eight and a half years I have been tried, the court does not make a decision, only because of one border, because of the arrangement of the border, for eight years. Please, can this judge be a judge? Did the President of the Court know about this case? Was there something going on in that direction? I believe that Mr. Musta Jon of the Vladimirs, the municipality of Alibunar, has the right to a fair trial and trial within a reasonable time. Well, what are we going to do if a judge, for example, is prosecuted for murder? Is he supposed to take the case when he comes to court and retires to hand him over to another judge? When eight years are not ruled by the final court decision to disrupt the property, i.e. So what am I supposed to say? Ladies and gentlemen, in the history of every nation, they meet and cross history and law as the most important areas. In doing so, certain institutions that are established in an appropriate society rightly and in history reflect the duration of the continuity and reality of this society, and their education itself constitutes the basis of society and the basis of the state. The law represents and reflects the culture of a people, and the willingness and consistency of the legislator, so that those of us who bring laws here provide as wide a scale as possible, and then the effective protection of human freedoms is an expression of the maturity and ability of that people. Serbia's constitutional history as a state is very long and rich. Her roots range deep into the Middle Ages. In its history, this, at first glance, state went through interesting periods, in which its rises and declines were crossed, flourishing and social collapses, up to the loss and statehood itself in certain periods. Thus, after a zenith in which a Serbian medieval state was found in the education of the great empire, in which a famous Serbian legal monument -- the Dusan Code -- was introduced, her tragic fall into eternal slavery followed. The Serbian state has disappeared, tragic times have come for the Serbian people to question its very physical survival, but this brave, small, but persistent people have risen their country in the wake of the 19th century. In Serbia, in all stages of its development, there was a sense that the right to freedom must be consistently guaranteed and respected and ensured by appropriate legislation. These are the laws we're discussing. So during the first Serbian uprising, and let's call it the "Serbian Revolution", Serbia's awareness is that it is through its own right that all those who exercise power, as well as to regulate relations between authorities and citizens, must be placed under control. Many legal monuments created in that time confirm that this consciousness has won and that the ideas of rights and justice, as well as in the world frameworks, have caught the roots in this small Balkan state. The construction of a state based on the basic principles of a democratic and legalised state marked the permanent and sacred goal of Serbian society during all the periods of its development. Real social opportunities, of course, were important to define currents, encouraging... on the plan to achieve that objective. A number of documents familiar with our professional and social public testify. The development of rights and justice is the most reliable mirror of every country's social and political opportunities. In this context, I stress in particular that the judiciary must have its irreplaceable place and a great role in our country. Justice and the principles of SRS law attach special importance to protect the fundamental freedoms and rights of our citizens. Serbia was very early on a path that leads to a legal, or just state, seeking to achieve a lofty goal in which the right skill is good and just. The Serbian state has passed difficult paths of fighting and various temptations. What is undeniable is the fact that this state of vasda remained faithful to the basic idea of justice and justice. The establishment of an appropriate legal system and then adequate judicial institutions that can ensure respect for the rights and affirmation of freedom and justice was a feature of the entire history of the Serbian state. Dusan's code, which contained 135 members, was adopted in 1349, deals mostly with state law on judicial proceedings and administrative law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7860	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7861	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 225 and 226. The government had a session today. We've heard that she's placed experienced and professional personnel in the places of ambassadors around the world. Today, the Serbian government had another task; for the third time it placed the director – it should have set up whether I don't know yet, but we will find out by tomorrow – the third time in Flight Control is setting up the same man. You remember, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have repeatedly pointed to the crimes of this man, who, according to the profession of the secretary's husband, or the head of the cabinet of Zoran Djindjic. It's exactly the connection that allows him to come back for the third time. Who was Nikola Stankov? Of course, it's not just Niko Stankov, it's about Bojan Krišt, it's about JAT Director Vlaisavljevic, etc. To remind only a few citizens of Serbia and to ask the Ministry of Justice, the prosecution, why don't they check and process this thief? Some time ago, for the purpose of flight control Nikola Stankov buys a building on six floors on the Street of Nikola Pasic 9, without a public tender, because when a public tender is then no commission can be provided. The sale was made without a public tender, so I ask, who gave consent to this purchase? At Belgrade's Nikola Stankov's airport, he buys to build a new district flight control; it seems that what he has is small, the man is a megalomaniac. The purchase was made without a public tender, of course. Apparently, Belgrade Airport is only a beneficiary of this land for a certain period of time and is not the owner. Who agreed to this sale transaction? The Ministry of Capital Investment is certainly not, I know, I asked the minister. The Director of the Agency doesn't answer to anyone. There were questions referred to him. In the last two years, large reconstructions have been carried out by the Agency's buildings; tenders are mainly furnished or transactions are obtained through a direct contract. When it comes to a set-up tender or a direct contract, you know, the hand washes. I've been pointing to this man's sticky fingers for years, and so far, nothing. Work is under way at the control tower, and at the Training Centre, also without a tender; great works were done before moving to the Agency's Management Building in Nikola Pasic Square. (President: Time.) I apologize, if you'll excuse me for a little while longer and I'll be done very soon, or I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7862	The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7863	Thank you. The purchase of new passenger vehicles "pejo 607" has been carried out... (President: Which member? ) The same 225 and 226. I'm looking for an explanation of where this man's right to expropriate state property like this. Powerful purchases of type 506 passenger vehicles have been made on several occasions. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this goes, like, ten to fifteen high-class vehicles. There's a tender for the Verano Motors firm. The jeeps were bought, a tender was also set up. Field vehicles were purchased "lada levels", but not from the "Lazarevic" auto house from Kragujevac, who was an authorised representative and had the best offer, but from a private house from Subotica, so I have a slight feeling that a Serbian citizen sitting there in those last rows also had a stake in setting up the job. In the last six months, a lot of furniture purchases have been made -- the purchase of chairs four times, so I wonder what they're doing with those chairs. The delivery was made by a private company from Novi Sad, without a tender. Vehicles of the minibus type have been purchased from the company "Delta", Miskovic. Something that name is very familiar to me. A set-up tender, of course. They were purchased a few years ago by radar systems and software... I don't know how, it doesn't matter; mostly, it's some technology for radar systems, unskilled and unreliable equipment, doesn't recognize when more planes come in the same direction at different heights -- the operator on the system has a tip that there's been an airplane crash. The equipment supplier takes big money to maintain the system. There's a buy-in tender... And that's what the US ambassador set up; not this one, but the previous one. At Belgrade Airport in the power station, flight control came, listen up, ladies and gentlemen, there is a breakdown of the power system. The cause was sustained, the unreliable diesel aggregates and the unprofessional people that work there. New people who don't know the system have been admitted. For two-and-a-half hours, flight control was out of power, and two-and-a-half hours, there were more than 50 planes over the Serbian sky, and the Flight Control had no insight into it either. The Civil Aviation Directorate launched an investigation, but Director Mokovic Milan could not get the information. Instead of old diesel aggregates, the work of MS engineering, Belgrade and... (President: Time.) I thank you. I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7864	Let me tell you, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. What you're doing is misusing the Rules of Procedure, so I'm warning you not to do it anymore, and I'm asking you to get back on the agenda. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 63(4). Proposal for a law governing courts, the part relating to the assessment of the work of a judicial assistant. According to Article 63 of this proposal, the law states: "A senior judicial associate whose work has been assessed in parallel for at least two years with'specially pointed out' can acquire the calling of a judicial adviser and if he does not meet the conditions for a senior court judge. "The amendment is proposed to delete the position 4 because this provision is contrary to the provision of Article 59 of the same Law, which clearly defines that the calling of a court counselor may be obtained by one who fulfils the conditions for a judge of a higher court. The proposal for a law on judges in Chapter III has defined the conditions for selecting judges. Thus, Article 43 says a Serbian citizen who meets the general conditions for working in state authorities, who graduated from law school, can be elected as a judge and who is a professional, qualified and worthy judge. Furthermore, in Article 44, paragraph 1 reads – after a judicial examination, work experience is required in the legal profession, and in paragraph 3 - six years for the judge of the higher court, the Court of Commerce and the High Court of Justice. The government has proposed to the National Assembly not to accept this amendment on the grounds that the amendment is not accepted because it believes that the law should give the possibility for a senior judicial associate to gain more title if assessed by the highest estimate of two years consecutively and in case he does not meet the conditions for obtaining that title. Such a provision stimulates the quality of the work of the judge's assistants. The fact is that such a provision certainly cannot stimulate the quality of the work of judicial assistants, but rather provide opportunities for the rapid progress of certain senior judicial associates. When I say progress too quickly, I mean that within one year and seven months of a court trial, someone can get a call from a court counselor. In fact, Article 61 of this bill states in point 1: "The work of a judicial assistant is estimated once a year" and in Section 2: "The work of a judicial assistant who worked less than six months during the calendar year is not estimated for that year. "This means that if someone in one calendar year worked for seven months and was assessed by the assessment "specially expires" and is re-assessed by the same assessment next year, he will progress in calling the court adviser within one year and seven months. It is only enough to gain the favor of the judge's judge, which is usually achieved by belonging to the same political party. This provision of the law on the regulation of courts directly violates the provisions of the law on judges which has been prescribed a condition of six years of working experience in the legal profession of a judge of a higher court. These two laws are passed at the same time and some of their members relating to the same thing are in contrast, which speaks of the irresponsibility of the promoter. The adoption of this amendment would not violate the law on judges, and it would be an affirmative expertise. In addition to breaking the law, discriminatory attitudes towards senior judicial associates, poor collegiate relations and protectionism are encouraged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7866	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7867	As for the amendment submitted by the MP in front of the Serbian Radical Party, it is certain that the amendment should be accepted, given that there is legal basis and that it improves the text of this law. As regards the provisions of Article 6 of this Act, Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Madam Minister, in Article 6. The bill, title - Prohibition of influence on court, reads: "The use of public office, the means of public notification and any public hearing affecting the course and outcome of court proceedings is prohibited. Every other influence of the court is forbidden. "This is from a formal legal point of view well, but the problem is in practice. Here, Gilas says he'll change the decisions of So Zemun. It's not rare cases, you've had a chance to notice, that someone who wants to exercise some right, but in an illegal way, turns to some media and says, "Please, this court is not doing well, the judges are corrupt and I can't exercise my right, because that judge and that judge, he's hired and this expert, and I doubt it'll be the right decision." Then he explains on the pages and pages of the daily press and the hips of the court and the judge. What are all the pressures on the court and the judges, and they're very numerous? The existence of judicial interventions from the environment in which they occur, it's a pressure on the court. Then, the notion of judicial independence was regulated in international law in relation to independence and the position of judges. Ladies and gentlemen, the judicial authority belongs to the courts as an independent state body. The court's power is in independent court. We say they should perform independently. The independence of the court must mean such a position as that of the institution and individuals exercising judicial authority to ensure that they decide independently from other authorities on all legal disputes within their jurisdiction. This means that the independence of the judiciary exists only when any individual, I stress, any individual, nor the head of state, nor the crown in England, Belgium, the Netherlands, cannot interfere in making the right decision; it cannot be binding on the court to judge a single dispute or to prepare a general standard for a specific living situation and to apply it so. Not only does the independence of the judiciary stem from the principle of constitutionality and legality, but that principle cannot be ensured without such independent court activity, strictly based on constitutionality and legality. So, just the Constitution and the law, the other no. Courts judge, as our Constitution prescribes, based on the Constitution, laws and other regulations, general acts. That's what it is, to get back to it, that principled legal views cannot take over the role of law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the concept of judicial independence, judges are independent if they are not obliged to perform their duties, except to respect the law and follow their own conscience. In order for the judge to really be independent before, his personal independence must be fully achieved. So the previous question is the judge's personal independence. Under that term, such legal regulation of the court position (set up judges, choice of judges, progress of judges in the service, immunity, disciplinary responsibility, dismissal, transfer) which leads to the minimum possibility of members of the executive authority to influence his behaviour in the exercise of judicial office through decisions on this, for the judge and his existence. Therefore, the duration and conditions of the judicial services are so provided by our Constitution that neither individual judges nor the judiciary in general are under the control of the executive authority. That's how it's supposed to be, like in England, France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, and I'm not counting. There are numerous international acts and international regulations on the independence of the position of judges. I'll also talk about the details of this House later, and I apologize to you, Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, because I called you "Mr. Deputy Prime Minister" this afternoon, and you're the vice president of the National Assembly, which is a higher rank than the Deputy Prime Minister because you're the vice president of the legislative, highest authority in the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7868	Thank you very much. That's right. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a colleague of Radovanovic has submitted an amendment to Article 64. Proposal for a court-ordered law. What is the essence of this amendment? Here, I will read, it is brief: in the position of the 2nd member, the words "an objection to the working body of the High Council of the Judiciary" are replaced by the words "an objection to the High Council of the Judiciary". Apparently, if you were to look a little further at this amendment, it would turn out to be just a game of words and letters, but it's not like that. Perhaps counterpart Radovanovic would not have submitted this amendment, perhaps the Serbian Radical Party would not have considered it as a whole if it weren't for one very important thing, and that is the solution to the assessment of the judicial assistant. Since it is a judicial assistant, it is clear that the SRS also considers that the working body should not exist in this case. That working body shouldn't exist for at least two reasons. The first and basic reason is that there is already a law that regulates the work of the High Council of the judiciary, so this is not necessary. The second reason, and not less significant, is because it's an evaluation and whenever it comes to any evaluation should be careful. This is about the evaluation of a judge's assistant who's definitely going to be a judge at some point in time, so we need to keep everything in mind. On the other hand, only grading is one subjective category and all those who evaluate in any procedure, in any situation should remove vanity, all animosity towards those whose evaluations are done, because of that assessment, depends on who's fate and, in essence, depends on the quality, in this case, the judges, and other things. But since we're all human beings of blood and flesh and maybe some time accidentally could be wrong, it's always better when it comes to this kind of evaluation as many people as possible do those evaluations. When a larger number does an evaluation, then grading is more objective. The most objective vision and type of evaluation is when all citizens participate in this evaluation, and we have such cases, let's say, when a referendum on some topic is held on the part of the territory or in the whole state. One of the most objective assessments is the elections, through which we all came to this Parliament. We know from experience that, over time, working bodies, commissions that do evaluation forget, realize that they are their own goal and purpose; if these working bodies and these commissions make up a small number of people, then corruption can occur. That is why in many institutions various measures are being taken to avoid corruption. I will provide a classic example which, however, has little to do with the judiciary and the judiciary, for example, assessment in sport: in individual sports, such as gymnastics, boxing, a larger number of judges are estimating; in order to avoid subjectivity in the evaluation, the smallest and greatest assessment is not taken into account, and the final assessment is carried out on the basis of other assessments. So, Mrs. Malovic, I assume you've been listening to what I've been saying. I really admire you, and I thank you for closely following this session and these laws concerning directly the Ministry of which you are headed, and I ask you to consider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7870	Thank you. Mr. Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course Mr Savic's SRS amendment should be accepted, and I will take advantage of the opportunity and time we have left to finish the story of the biggest thief spoken of in this House and ask the Serbian Government if there is any courage to place another man and such a man in place. I remind you that Flight Control is the only institution still working for Serbia and Montenegro and opportunities, valves, filters that should function are numerous. So, Nikola Stankov isn't even nasty about small furniture, so, let's say, he canceled the contract to the catering company "JAT Kettering" and made it with some company that gives away far more unquality food, but the commission is bigger, so it doesn't matter. Stankov employs over 200 people, his party colleagues and other influential, in systems. He does all this beyond the law, and quality, honorable and professional people are being persecuted. He receives children from his half-trons who have fallen on English language tests, even on a health test, and the quality frames could not – either not children of half-trons or did not give money. A special story is about the purchase of radar systems equipment in Podgorica and Tivt. Jobs were done beyond any control, because the state of Serbia, and if it wanted, could not control, and Nikola Stankov has a magnificent house in Petrovac on the Sea, which he had not until then. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, assess where a man gets that kind of money at once. He acquired four radar systems for Serbia: one location is Koviona, another is Kosevac, the third is Murtenica and a radar system that is partly installed on Kopalnik. You know that the radar system on the Bather can't work, KFOR doesn't allow, but even those that can function can't function. They are obtained from the world power in the field of electronics – from Vietnam. It doesn't matter that the radar is bad, it's important that the commission is quality. Almost a year ago, the Air Control Agency was purchasing a radar-librating aircraft. It's not over yet. The tenders are being set up, they're going down one after the other, and as soon as there's enough commission, of course there's going to be a buy-in plane. Training personnel is a special story. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the same Nikola Stankov who, at the time, had reliable data, had between 12,000 and 16,000 euros a month; the salary plus the various benefits, and about these jobs, we can't talk about these money when setting up a tender, because we can't trace how much it is. That's why I'm asking the D.A. to take control, to get the investigation and the D.A.'s office done, to get the judiciary done, and probably not to put this man back on the table, not to get him elected, especially by bringing him into the system... You remember Sladjan Ivkovic, who was arrested after the affair at the Airport – Stankov takes him as chief financial adviser. In a short time, he was arrested, the investigation lasted, and everything else, and Ivkovic returned to work in Flight Control. I don't think there's anything more to say about this man, it's time for him to go either to Bachvanska or to that special prison at the Special Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7872	Thank you very much. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 65th Amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Dragan Stevanovic submitted an amendment to Article 66 in front of the SRS parliamentary group. Proposal for a court-ordered law. Article 66. The bill reads, paragraph 1: "The judicial intern is admitted to a working relationship for three years. "Station 2: "A judge's intern who was evaluated in a judicial trial with'supervised' is admitted to a working relationship indefinitely, in the calling of a judicial associate. "With his amendment, Mr. Stevanovic suggested that attitude 2 be amended so that it reads: "A judge's intern, after a judicial examination, is admitted to a working relationship indefinitely, in the calling of a judicial associate. "The government's decision is not to accept this amendment. For its decision, the government gave the following explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why we consider the proposed provision to be more celery. The above provision shall be guaranteed to judicial interns who have passed a judicial examination with a view to establishing a working relationship in a court indefinitely. As for the other trainees who passed the judicial exam, their admission to permanent employment will depend on the number of court assistants' vacancy in the courts. "This amendment has been submitted with the intention of getting rid of the discriminatory relationship towards the finished students of the right i.e. to those who are due to pass a judicial exam after three years of training as a judicial intern. Whoever passes the judicial exam with a medal will establish a working relationship in court indefinitely. Those who do not comply with this assessment, with the distinction, because for some reason that day was not their day, because of sickness or any other reason, cannot automatically count on working relationship to indefinite time in court. It is not right, in a country with a demented system of values such as Serbia, to establish, according to the legislator's intention, one such positive selection. In a country where nepotism is present in all areas of social and economic life, it has become a practice that children of well-known parents are mostly the best students in colleges and this negative selection is created already at that stage, so that these bias anomalies should be crossed at some other levels, not through the law proposed, because the proposed way is not a guarantee that the highest quality will be accepted in a permanent working relationship in courts. It is necessary to provide for the correct number of students, i.e. The graduate lawyers and the number are in line with the needs of the state in order to avoid the serial production of lawyers in colleges, because as a consequence, we will have a large number of graduate lawyers on the labour market.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7874	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7875	With this amendment, we actually wanted to draw attention to the fact that here in the Bill of Law in this article, we used some terms that would likely be present in the future law – "with grace" etc. What is the purpose or purpose of this amendment? We've long been representing the position that it's not good, no matter what the level, but according to this new one, to start from the basic court, it's not good if a court judge is elected by a man who hasn't spent some time in court. We have long represented the view that judges can be chosen by those who were judicial interns, and then assistants, counselors, etc. So, they've been going from the beginning of their working careers from the court, and then, as they meet these conditions, to be elected judges of one court, and so on and so forth. Why? Because in practice so far, we have had a situation where someone formally meets the conditions: a graduate lawyer, passed a judicial exam, six, seven, eight years of legal experience, and this is an assistant in the attorney's office with his father, secretary of the agricultural cooperative, secretary of a private company. We had a situation, it seemed to me that it was Valjevo, that a man from the cooperative came, thanks to Bosko Ristic and his family, came to court and was elected judge, so he immediately became President of the court, and he only saw the court when he went to a meeting with the girl, because they agreed to meet at seven o'clock in the morning in front of the court. So, we had a man who formally met the conditions, and the court only saw him go on an appointment with a girl. In order not to get a man employed and become a judge, to take these terms, the municipal court, when he has to pursue the norm, to share justice in accordance with the Constitution and the law, he needs to learn what the solution is, when a solution is made, with a call to which member, the solutions managed by the procedure, how this is done, how it is, because that man could never in practice see it. What we've been representing, we've been saying for years from this pay phone, is that the judge, he passed the judicial exam, he's been an associate for years, he's come up with those years that show he meets the conditions for the judge's election, the competition, he's elected judge, and you've already got a formed man, and he can go on with that job, because he's fed up with that milk, in court, he's been doing it for five, six, seven, eight years. That was our concept. What were we gonna say? We respect this situation so that the court can receive more people as judge interns and train them, etc. And that systematicization doesn't allow some to stay. The purpose of this article, what the promoter wanted to achieve in this article, is that the one who was the best in the judicial exam, if there is a vacant place, remains, and the others are waiting for order when the place for assistants, staff, etc. is opened. What do we want to achieve with this amendment? If someone has passed the criteria for a judicial intern, they have passed a judicial exam with that quality assessment, they should remain in court. Why would that piece go somewhere else? He was accepted as a judicial intern to be trained for court work. If he passed the judicial exam after three years of traineeship, he showed these results, why throw that child away somewhere else? That's what we wanted. Of course, these people will be accepted as judicial interns, will pass the judicial exam in some way, will not show any good grades or have shown inconsistency during the traineeship, do not know that they distinguish between what is important and what is irrelevant, etc., there is no need to remain. But we get the impression that in this formulation in Article 66. The bill hides something that goes beyond the professional criteria, goes into something that's a similarity, goes into the criteria of a similarity. That's what we wanted to avoid, and that's why we filed a amendment like this. So if someone passed a judicial exam, showed success, they should stay. If someone has shown that it's simply not for this job, for three years a traineeship, and no matter what he's passed that judicial exam, he shouldn't stay. We just wanted to make that clear. Because there's an automatism going on here, and that's what they say, in calling a judicial associate. That's the lowest thing in that hierarchy. So, in this formulation of yours, it has some kind of automatism. You've inserted something that's a criterion behind which not only the waist is hidden. That is the purpose of this amendment. As long as I'm here, I want to take the opportunity to speak a few words about something that's also very important to this law, that it looks like something. Mrs. Malovic, the working body is, by definition, an auxiliary organ. There's no institution where a working body can be a second-degree organ. In Article 64(2), the government gave one solution where it is possible to state its objection to this matter, which is regulated by Article 64, which refers to a solution to the assessment of the results of the work of the judicial assistant, that if it is not satisfied with the assessment given by the President of the Court, it may object and that the complaint is submitted to the High Council of Justice's working body. A working body can't be an organ. If you had said any committees, some commission... But the question is whether the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the High Council of the judiciary allow you to build sub-organs, working bodies and something else within that body. I'm sure the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow that. He defined the High Council of the Judiciary as a competent state body. The High Council of the judiciary became an institution by adopting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If he's become an institution, you can't now transfer his powers to something that's an auxiliary body inside the organ. You can't, it's forbidden. That's absolutely unconstitutional. That was the point of the amendment to that article64. submitted by SRS MP Milovan Radovanovic. So we don't argue to you that, according to the internal organisation of the work of the High Council of the Judiciary, there is something that will prepare for the High Council meetings, make draft decisions, make proposals for decisions. We don't dispute that. But you said in article 64 that the working body of the High Council of the Judiciary decided that. The working body within that high council cannot be the decision-making body. Just to remind you, we here in the National Assembly have several absolutely unconstitutional and illegal provisions in our Rules of Procedure. It is possible that only the Administrative Board adopts an individual act and solves certain matters. All other committees and commissions are working bodies, without being able to make a measurement decision. When the draft law comes to the Committee on Justice or to another committee, only the opinion within that report is given. That opinion is a non-binding attitude. Only the Administrative Committee under certain conditions, under the existing Rules of Procedure, may decide on individual rights, status issues, etc. Only him. That's something to be taken care of. You who write the Law on the National Assembly should make a different composition. The working body can't decide. We have several working bodies that are very important and make some decisions, even if it is a proposal later on. I think the worst situation is with the Finance Committee. You don't know, while it was that old constitution, that committee came through the law and through the Rules of Procedure to propose the governor of the National Bank, in one assembly, when it was necessary to change Dinkic and bring that woman from the World Bank. No, the working body doesn't have that capacity, it doesn't have that authority, regardless of what structure and proportion it is in the National Assembly. (President: Time.) ) You're questioning really, because this concept is obviously surreal. I get the impression that there was no concept here, but there was some initial version, and then everyone conditioned with some solutions. And you, so that you may not be conditioned, are little of this, little of that, and have received something that is nothing like it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7876	National MPs Judita Popovic and Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted the 72nd amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7877	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the state of emergency has passed and the Assembly normally works. This means that the esteemed Mr. Novakovic runs a session without tension and without conflict. Mr. Vice President, in terms of the provisions of Articles 225 and 226, and regarding Article 104, I would ask you to allow me to ask one question. Namely, the other day I spoke to citizens in the populated town of Vladimirovci, the municipality of Alibunar. A Romanian national citizen, Mandresh Jon, asked me to pass on to our government, which is not in refugee, how it is possible that prices have gone so far, that they have grown, that no one can follow them anymore and that they cannot provide, especially individual agricultural producers, their existence. In 2007 the price of corn was between nine and 18 dinars, and in 2008 between three and six dinars. The cost of artificial fertilizer in 2007 was 3900 dinars per 100 kilograms, and in 2008 100 kilograms of artificial fertilizer cost 5000 dinars. For 100 kilograms of artificial fertilizer, it is now necessary to sell 900 kilograms of corn in grain. Ladies and gentlemen, is it possible that the government is not looking back at the torment of these martyrs and martyrs who provide existence and food to all the citizens of our country? Notice this: for one liter of oil, which is needed for tractors and machines to work, it takes 25 kg of corn. Imagine, one egg costs 3 kilos of corn. Price of milk - a liter of milk is sold.... (President: Time.) I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7878	The title above Articles 77 and 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Shormaz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7879	I'm distracted by the MP with this picture he picked up on his laptop. It really doesn't make sense. It really bothers me. (President: I apologize. If you don't mind, I'll ask the MP to close the laptop. I would remind the minister that I had asked her a question about the trial at the Smederev District Court. I didn't get an answer in writing. I heard in the meantime, but I didn't get an official response, that the continuation of that trial was scheduled for December 16th. However, I now have some new information. It's about that case of corruption, where the current deputy mayor of the Democratic Party, and at the time, when she was arrested and when the whole case was brought against her, was Mayor of Smederev... I have some information on the court council. You check it out. If it's necessary, I'll deliver it to you. I see something about the judicial council is going on in Serbia. For example, you have this example in Bruce where the court council, related to some DS mandates, made one decision, and after a few hours one member of the court council changed and again, on the same day, decided and made a completely different decision on the same case. We have an example of a complete change in the Vozdovac court council, in order to rule differently than in previous cases when it comes to complaints filed by the Democratic Party of Serbia concerning the situation in SO Vozdovac. I'll deliver it to you, someone of my opinion as a People's MP on that court council, so you make sure it's true or not. In any case, something about that trial is wrong; I'm very late, but it's been three or four years, even until the beginning... There is a picture that the fight against corruption and crime has slowed down in the judiciary. Now I'm going back to the amendment, which, as far as I can see from your explanation, is practically even acceptable to the government. It is the chapter VII entitled Court Security: Article 77 - The Judicial Guard, then the Powers of the Judicial Guard, the Order of the Judicial Guard, etc. I suggested that the subtitle be changed and that, instead of the Justice Guard, the "Court Police" and that the words "Justice Guard" should be deleted in article 77 and the "judicial police" were added instead. In my explanation, I made it clear that this subtitle "Justice Watch" is a relic of the time left behind. The term "judicial police" is something more used in the world and more suited to the essence of things. In EU countries, when we talk about European standards, this term is used. These powers that we DSS MPs have proposed to the amendments to Articles 78 and 79 are actually police powers. They're not guards' powers, they're police. Without that, it wouldn't be clear what authority it was. In my reasons for not accepting the amendments, the Government responds to me as follows: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the area involved in the judicial guard, the security of the judicial bodies' facilities, as well as the security of judicial and judicial staff will be regulated by a special law, which is not possible at this time, given the provisions of the Police Act, as well as the internal organisation of police and the powers of police officers. While this law is not stated here, and you say it, but it does not say which, "in which the Ministry of Interior must be involved, the Ministry of Justice will also take into account the solutions proposed in the amendments of the MPs to the article. 77 - 81. Proposal for a court-ordered law. "I'll give you an example. For years, we have been waiting for the traffic law because the Ministry of Infrastructure, or for the part concerning traffic, and the MUP cannot agree on some legal solutions. The question is how many judicial guards are in the focus of the MUP in the first place. When will that come to the agenda? Why would it wait when this solution is something that's an integral part of this particular law we're talking about? Why don't we put this right away as a legal solution, and then let the Home Office, as quickly as it had to give us this proposal for passports, amendments and additions to the law, adapt to that and get us changes and additions to the Police Act, in order for this part to be resolved effectively and quickly. I'm afraid if there's any legal guards left now, and not the way it's supposed to be... My colleague and I were together in some countries, we visited some parliaments; for example, you have parliaments in Europe that have parliamentary police. It has nothing to do with the interior ministry; it's not like us, where it's provided by the D.O.P. They have their own prescribed uniforms, they have their prescribed powers, they have everything they need to secure the building of parliament, officials, MPs, and according to the Rules of Procedure on Labour and the Law on the Assembly have their powers as well. We're proposing a solution to where the court police are. It's not the Department of the Interior Police. When this law says that... I'm sorry that New Serbia's MP is distracting the minister while I'm saying this, colleague. I'm trying to convince her because the parliamentary majority has heard more than the government so many times so I suggested that they make a new government out of their ranks. This solution is much more logical, not to wait. Anyway, it's about the jurisdiction of the courts, your ministry, anyway, the judicial police, let the MUP adapt. Have the M.O.P. send us after that to amend and supplement the law, and then we'll regulate it. Let them send those few members who need to be in line with the amendments and the supplements and to regulate it. We've even got, I'm going to talk about this next amendment, I hope you'll accept this, suggestions from people who are now working in the courtroom to expand... They sent a little late, the debate had already begun, they had to be handed over to the amendment. What people do, they don't know what it's like to do an emergency procedure. They've sent suggestions on how to expand their equipment or to make it better. Regardless of the money problem, really, we've had cases of assault on judges, we've had cases of assault on judges in a court building with tragic consequences. Every day we have some problems in the courts, we know that, not just about planting bombs. I don't know if you know about the case when SO Zemun was supposed to respond to the court's demands, when people brought and handed over to the office office, it was announced that the bomb was planted in the courthouse building. There's a lot going on with us. Anyway, we have a lot of problems in the courts' buildings on security. This is a more efficient, better solution. You don't have any problem because someone from the opposition remembered to propose, and it wasn't proposed in law. At least the DSS is known as the pro-European party, but with standards, with the fight for standards, as the President of the Republic said a few days ago, not post-traumatic entry into the European Union. Please, let's think about it one more time. I realize it takes some kind of change in the police law, and I don't know what other laws, you know it better, but this has to be written in this law anyway. Then let them adapt, hand over the changes and supplement them, to comply with this law. If we wait all the time from the beginning, and they give up, and we hand over, it'll really be a lot longer and we'll just lose to efficiency and the need for justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7880	Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, after the amendment, then Mr. Jojic, then Mr. Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7881	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is extremely important that we seriously consider this issue raised by counterpart Dragan Shormaz because the establishment of a judicial guard, or, as he suggests, the police, is necessary for the functioning of the courts, especially because we are now establishing more judicial institutions, such as the appeal court, is the case in Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad and Belgrade. And not only that, do you need me to give you my colleague Shormaz more arguments, and I'm afraid I'm going to have to mention a tragedy two years ago from the Court of Justice in Odjac, when a judge was killed on the spot and a wounded juror, or one of the employees, because of the fact that he wasn't the highest degree of security in court. It's amazing that you're so easy to skip this question just because, you know, he's right when he says so, you're waiting for the M.O.P. to solve it and to agree to the legislation of that resistor. You simply have to bear in mind that time goes by very quickly and that events are intertwined and that people who work as, as you say here, the court guards have a lot of problems in their functioning, starting with the frequency at the entrance, depends on which place and what court it is... Especially now that you have abolished many courts, a large number of citizens and parties will appear in buildings in courts of general jurisdiction, in large centres of administrative districts. The best thing to do is to make changes and supplement laws by the MUP, why not, we can suggest it, it treats it as one special police administration. As we have the Fifth Board of the Ministry of Interior for the Security of Objects and Persons, we must also take care that the ICJ assumes responsibility for the security of the courts in our country. Those tried for certain crimes from county prisons come to the assistance, i.e. in a police "marica", carried out by the authority of the MUP. It's mostly that way, because if it's someone who's a prisoner, a convict, whether from an "Afera index" or not, in a Kragujevac prison, of course a police "marica" and a MUP will bring him to a Kragujeva municipal or county court. Therefore, in the future it is necessary, and you now show good will to want to work in such a way, to synchronise the work of individual resistors in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not – one in the wedge, the other in the board, so you do not know, your professional services write the laws from your portfolio, the MUP from theirs. No, but make a nice deal, so those powers that intertwine, as is the case here in Article 77. The law Mr. Shormaz insists on changing... It is best that you take your example and give your colleague the Minister of the Interior Dacic these guidelines. Otherwise, the issue raised by Dragan Shormaz as regards the traffic safety law is the subject of a public debate and, above all, concerns of citizens and traffic users, here, two years ago. Whenever an election campaign approaches, they tell us about it, they make special videos for children... And it's good for children to appeal to drivers and traffickers to take care of them. But as time goes by, I think the first, working version, as well as the other law on privatization of sports companies, is back two years... One effective, normal state, like the Russian Federation, does it in a responsible way. You have seen that a second reading of the amendments of the two members of the Constitution that will extend the mandate of the Russian Federation and the MPs of the Russian State Dum, and the process has entered the Single Russia initiative less than a month ago, on the proposal of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. We have inefficient executive power. You're seeing each other at these government sessions, the list there that the secretary, Mrs. Stojcevic, prepares you, see that it goes somehow. If there is a problem, when you determine quotas, when you tighten in coalitions, when you blackmail each other, that's how all governments survive from 5 October to today, you wait for that Thursday and the government's session to end. And what are the laws, who made them, whether they were translated well, whether they could even be implemented in the right way with what we own and what we have as human resources in all segments (here, and now when it comes to the guard in courts), you don't care, just let it be done, let it pass so what happens. There's a lot of unresolved problems in the country. Here, let's say, when I raised the issue of court security, and also the future appeal in Kragujevac, by system, the other day she spoke to her colleague, Verica Radeta, not to the lack of a donkey to the green grass, explain to me, Mrs Malovic, what is the problem now, and the deadline for the constitution is constantly extended and for the start of the work of the appeals courts. We have been told by committees of the City of Kragujevac Assembly (one of which I belong and again that it has been kidnapped, stolen from these ten terms by the District Court’s criminal decision) that the problem is the building. The former office building, i.e. health care facilities and health stations, city centre number 4, was moved to Kragujevac, with a private combination of Veroljub Stevanović, to a business facility of one of the owners, entrepreneurs in Kragujevac, and this building, which is across the street from the municipal and county courts, is being prepared for an appeal court. Do you know how far that's gone? What's the problem? Are the funds defined in the budget, did the town of Kragujevac do his job and why? Why is it waiting so long? When will we know, our fellow citizens and all those living in the territory in the jurisdiction of that future court of appeal? For a while, you didn't know how, what and where you were going to do, so they did all kinds of lobbies, and in the end it was defined as being in Kragujevac and these three other cities, and now we need to know how far it came. We no longer have any report as committeemen, as MPs we are not familiar with it, and if you know, at the end of the discussion or whenever you will, based on all of our questions, let us know. As a born Kraguyevchan, I want to know what this is about. We have another problem with the collapse of state property that can be used for judicial practice and for the work of the MUP. It's a matter of taking this time too, but to connect these things, the building of the Kragujevci garrison. Unfortunately, with Boris Tadic's decision as defence minister at the time, and later Davinic, and now finally and definitely with Dragan Sutanovac, we no longer have an army in Kragujevac. We've got a couple of soldiers out there in Grosovnica, guarding some facilities. The garrison building is completely empty, almost collapsing, and previously invested by the Yugoslav Army about a million euros to equip it. The same is true of the House of the Army in the center of the town of Kragujevac. Since we intend to organise the promotion of the book of Prof. Vojislav Seselj "Haška turkey Kristina Dal" early next month, as shown by fantastic illustration on the cover of the book, we were asking about where in the town of Kragujevac we could get an O.R. and maintain the promotion of the book. Otherwise, the book says that the Hague Prosecutor's Office through pressures, through working with this unfortunate Vukcevic, through co-operation with Boris Tadic, with the BIA, is haunting people in Serbia. Nineteen people did not want to be a witness to the prosecution, although they were being blackmailed by their families, but they made statements that they wanted to be witnesses of the defence in this brilliant process that I have against all of the leaders of Prof. Vojislav Seselj. When the president of the Kragujeva Radicals, Mr Dragan Zikic, who was also a boardman, invited Veroljub Stevanovic... Not to mention my colleague again, but he'll know, he'll never say anything like that, he's always kind of on call to me, and he's not, uh, he's not, uh, he's not, uh, he's not, uh, he's not, uh, he's not, uh, he's... When he called this man Stevanović, a martyr, who only knows how to steal mandates and he wants to take money from us now, too, who was waiting with a decision to establish an appeal court... They call him on the phone and he says, "Well, let's see if it's the building of this Children's Theatre or Theatra "Joakim Vujic", and Stevanović tells him – call the Army House and see if there is enough room there, you have 300-400 seats to organize the promotion of the book "The Shrubed Hague Turkey Kristina Dahl". After that, I call the man, I will not mention his name, Colonel of the Serbian Army, who is still in charge of so many accounts, without an army, which has been disbanded from Kragujevac; he grabs his head and cannot believe that such nonsense could have been said by the mayor of Kragujevac. There's no power, there's inventory, the Army's home in the center of the town of Kragujevac is completely empty. That is why I am also taking this opportunity, but I will also do so if there are these parliamentary issues, as a committee of the City of Kragujevac Assembly and as an MP, I have already spoken to the people of our Ministry of the Interior, which is why it is necessary to have this coordinated work of all ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to propose to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the garrison building on Knez Milos Street in Kragujevac, which is indeed a real treasure for the city and a functional facility, stands up, that is, by some beating or compensation of two ministries, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, to make it available to the MUP. Because it's unnatural for the Ministry of the Interior, that's what's left of that Broz communist time (is that right, Mr. Chikiriz, when you came to study at our Kragujeva Law School), to be glued to the city hall building. On the other hand, the Kragujevac City Assembly, which has now assumed jurisdiction from the tax administration and which has no opportunity to give parliamentary political parties room for work, can get the space. Now, all it takes is a little goodwill and co-operation between the ministers and, as my colleague Markovic says, is to come to a solution, not to collapse and collapse the state property that our parents built, or those people who singled out at that time from their salaries, or how it was already going. What is our situation in the country, how everything goes down and how the property is spread all over the country, we have opportunities to see it in other cities and municipalities in Serbia. I don't need to mention again the Aran angelic old building and many other monuments of culture that fail with the carelessness of power. It's the easiest thing to do -- come here, sit down to pass the time, work till eight, work till ten, stand up for amendments, and what happens in the country, who cares. Look, I don't know if they're coming to your MP groups, but I believe that, yes, they end those letters in baskets... As far as I'm concerned, both the vice president's office and his associate Mr. Ratko Licin, we receive at least 20 letters from citizens every day regarding the problems they face in the environments they live in, and the state authorities don't solve them. Therefore, it is not enough to just go, as we encouraged the other day, that is, Mr. Todorovic as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. For many years, Mr Bata Zivojinovic, who was an SPS MP, was the best performer (and at that time he was the president of the board for ten years, here in number 16 on this street, and since the first meeting was established after October 5th, I don't know if that committee met once after the constitution. Therefore, take a little care of this and consider, above all, you who are in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, such good suggestions as the amendment of counterpart Dragan Shormaz. Thank you and I'm sorry I wasted more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7882	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Petar Jojic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, I am reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, and in relation to Article 104. In fact, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens, I have had the opportunity to speak to our fellow citizens in several villages in South Banat these days who are complaining of major problems in agriculture and livestock. Here, I mentioned it, and I did not finish before, because Mandreš Jon and Musta Jon from the village of Vladimirovci, the municipality of Alibunar, were in charge of asking the Government a question and asking for an answer – how is it possible that the price of a liter of milk sold to dairies is 20 - 22 dinars and that the litre of acid is up to 35 dinars? Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to sunflowers, people complain. In 2007, the price of sunflowers was 27 dinars, and this year it fell to 24 dinars. Furthermore, I have been asked and I have an obligation to ask a question and request a notice from the Ministry of Environmental Protection when it will take appropriate measures to remove the livestock cemetery and lake with a porcine farm near Vladimirovac, which is located near the drinking water spring for the entire municipality of Alibunar. This farm has been taken over by "Delta" Miskovic, so I ask the question when will the livestock cemetery be removed and certain funds will be invested to dislocation the axis and that lake that has a diameter of up to 500 metres, so that the citizens of the municipality of Alibunar can be provided with clean and good drinking water? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, I am asking you and the President of the Assembly for a notice – is it true that cleaning women in the Republika Srpska Assembly only have a salary of 12,000 dinars? If this compares with salaries in municipal enterprises and in the city administration, far higher salaries of cleaning women, those of staff and drivers than is the case in the Republika Srpska Assembly. Mr. Vice-President, on several occasions, I asked for information from Croatian companies that bought huge assets in the Republic of Serbia, and that: "Frikom", "Somboled", "Inteks" Mladenov, "Faciliar of Hartius" Belgrade, "Jelen do", "Bigz", "Diamant", "Dunavka" Velika Gradište, Erdevik, "Stralovo" Sremski Karlovci, "Podunavlje", "The Millennium Insurance", "Rotografika" Subotica, and those companies that operate past this, and these are all the companies that bought huge assets in a senseless manner in the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, according to some data, Mr. Todorovic bought about 300,000 hectares of agricultural land and Serbia cannot buy a single rate in Croatia. What is this government doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7884	The word is from Ambassador Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7885	I support the amendment of my esteemed colleague, Dragan Shormaz. I believe that this way, by introducing the judicial police to the judiciary, would increase security and be given greater authority to those who are obliged to take care of order in the courts, unlike the court guard. At the same time, I am using the opportunity, dear Mrs. Malovic, to ask you a few questions about the functioning of the judiciary, which is also said by my dear colleague, Mr. Dragan Šormaz. We all stand for the rule of law and are filled with the mouth of the rule of law. We have an amazing situation concerning parliamentary mandates in the municipality of Bruce, where the District Court made two completely different decisions on the same day. It is the mandates of the DS committee, where, in the first instance, at the appeal of the committee of the Democratic Party, the District Court in Krusevec made a positive decision in favour of the applicants. I would also say this: that the court council was composed of more or less of the same composition, except that the President of the Judicial Council changed. It has made a positive decision to change that decision later, it is the same date - 23. Seven. A positive decision was made first at the appeal's request, to make a later decision returning the mandates to the Democratic Party. In order to explain to the public what this is about, I will say that there is one prehistory, or pre-production. By the decision of the president of the Democratic Party Executive Committee, Mr. Marko Djurisic, otherwise MPs here in the Republika Srpska Assembly, the mandates were taken from the committees, and that: Rilak Svetoliku, Bekric Goranu, Radmanovic-Milosvljevic Mileni, who filed a complaint, Mitic Biljani, Vukkovic Ivanu, Eric Milan, Colic Dejanu and Rajicevic Vladici. But what's the big deal? These gentlemen did not have certified agreements on the regulation of mutual relations between applicants of the electoral list and candidates for committees. Mr. Marko Djurisic 15. 7. make a decision on the withdrawal of the mandate in order to 16. 7. in Vracar municipality, these contracts were signed with committees from the Democratic Party, where we are expressing reasonable doubt because these committees have issued a criminal report that they have not signed any contract with an authorised DS representative in SO Vračar. I think this is a case for the authorities, that responsibility should be reconsidered, and if there is a basis for a crime that those who have committed a crime are held accountable for it, because our mouths are full of the rule of law and justice. What concerns us is the set of events in the neighbouring municipality, what happens to the officials of the Democratic Party. In the municipality of Alexandrovac, three senior DS officials suffered physical torture, and there are serious physical injuries to one of them, Radman Milicevic by Srboljub Katancevic. Does all this point to self-government, disrespect for rights, to tyranny, as my colleague says? Because if we don't react and respect the right, we give someone else the opportunity to exercise their right in another way, which is by applying physical force.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7886	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 77th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7887	Mr. Novakovic, after what Milos Radulovic said, may only three percent be true, with fear and chill I come to this pay phone. As this turns out, someone can jump out of here with a stick and beat us up. It's democratic, you know. That's what our revolution has given us; we have a Field Marshal. Now we're going to go back to this article 77. Mrs. Malovic, member of your 77th draft law, the government of the Republic of Serbia, cannot solve any problems. I'd say there's a particularly big problem, and I apologize for using the name of a lady who was the Supreme Court judge. It's about Mrs. Drecun. She was in a court council, a criminal, Supreme Court of Serbia. The verdict was reached; all finished and the woman almost fainted when she heard that someone from the office withdrew it and forged the Supreme Court's decision. Whether it was the police, whether the guard, whether the BIA, whether the judicial KOS, whether or not you name it, is probably someone from the NATO Pact in these courts and he is in control so that our judges are not independent in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Let me do it one more time. The court council's done the job. The verdict went to the office to be seduced and to expedit the case to the lower court for delivery. Someone took it out, forged it all. The lady wanted to faint. A press conference was held, and everything died - rest. I think that lady's retired now or she's resigned, so I apologize if I made a mistake, I'm not doing it on purpose. What's the point? No democracy and no court. Not democracy and the police. No democracy and no BIA. Not democracy and the media. He can't do anything. Simply, this Democratic Party is not compatible with a multiparty system. It's not like her. They don't fit in. The proof of that is next. You see, in view of this article 77, from the government's point of view, since there are several amendments, they feel that the word "police" is not responding, but that the term or word "guards" should be used. I have to tell you one thing - there's kind of a government right. Why is he right? The prison guard is in the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, and she has some closeness with the courts. The police don't. That's quite clear. However, according to these transactions referred to in Article 77, these are not guards' jobs, these are security jobs, physical and technical security of the facility, immovable property facilities, court buildings. This amendment goes towards talking security. Why? This gentleman who has submitted the amendment requires that at the end of that fine sentence be added – as well as to protect the employees outside the workplace. In the course of his insight, when the team comes out, there's security from the court, so that it doesn't happen that the man on the border pulls the axe, and instead of the defendant, he kills the judge or the notary. That's the situation. Just to distract you, for all the actions that the court takes outside the court building, if it's a matter of insight, reconstruction, etc., you always provide assistance by the police. But this amendment is good from an idea point of view. This ideologist's getting away. Why is it good? What's this about? We have a situation that should be tried by some selected mob that selectively belongs to yellow paint. Then one of their lawyers calls the court by phone and says – please, discreetly tell you, a bomb has been planted. They empty the entire court, the hearing is adjourned. I was trying, when they start harassing us here to work till five in the morning, to go across the street, to call security and say, "There's a mine planted in the Assembly, please make sure, you're responsible if anything happens." But I didn't do it. Do you know why? Because citizens hate the National Assembly so much that some would say, "Where good luck to blow up a bomb?" It's because of this relationship, because there's no tolerance here, no dialogue. Tolerance must always come from the side where the majority is; you cannot ask for tolerance from the minority. The minority has no authority to decide. The force lies with the majority, and the one who holds the force should be tolerable and careful in the use of that force. The force is 126 hands in the air, in that sense you should interpret. You can laugh loudly, you don't have to be modest, Mr. Novakovic. I wish our courts had been designed in such a way as a projected court in Triestenik. For the investigation department the investigation is on the ground floor; there is a detention unit, from the detention unit detained comes to the investigating judge; the job ends, the investigation unit returns to the investigative prison, wherever the investigation prison is. We have such designed courts that anyone who carries out a face, when it comes to guilt, must go through, literally, a public part of the court corridor. It's possible that different jackals, different kinds of harassing people in the hallway. You don't want to solve this. I've got to distract you, custody is being held in criminal prisons or parts of a prison that serve as a holding cell for investigation. It's, according to new terminology, detention units. That's where guards work, cops don't work, and there's no need for police authority; the guard rules are prescribed by the Department of Justice, not the Ministry of Justice. The M.O.P. gives you consent to that security detail. Madam Minister, I've lived in the KP House for 17 years, in prison. I learned football to play with prisoners, I ate beans with the hardest criminals. Prison is a natural environment to me. Please don't. Don't lecture me on prison. I act normal in prison. You have no idea what a pleasure it is when a free woman goes through a radiator. You need a building security service, not a guard, because if you say there's a guard, then there's villains in the building. The building contains those who were found to be suspected of committing a crime, well, I don't suppose the judges were established suspicious of committing crimes? Although, I'm not so sure, there may be cases like that. You need physical-technical security of the facility and that's something else entirely. I wouldn't be surprised if, in the future change of this law, Mr. Shormaz, we were alive to see, this member suffers a change, so to speak, the affairs of the physical and technical security of the court's facility through the contest are given to private agencies. They'll be building the agencies in no time. The other day, I saw the bodyguards following that one, they're all gambling, they're short-circuited. As soon as a politician is followed by four, ten in security, decommissioning the people to pass, he has a problem with security. I won't even mention it, because every similarity isn't random. That's our stuff. Ma'am, I have to distract you. I used to, at a time when I used to say it wasn't good, and I made a terrible mistake, and I'm telling you honestly... It's the time when we could go on vacation and we didn't need to lock up the apartment, but we could have had to call the neighbor and tell him – go, please, and see if I locked up, so if it wasn't locked, a field of flowers; when the cars weren't locked in front of the building; when the biggest crime was borrowing cars for night driving and getting back. It's that time. Then you didn't need to have a uniform face in court, no matter what uniform. The question is, could a cop have just walked into court? It's just that there's been some bit of a better economic situation, and I want you to solve it as soon as possible so that there won't be this stampede towards the banks -- citizens are starting to raise their savings, because nobody's safe anymore. Bosko, if you haven't picked up, go ahead and pick up. Who knows what's gonna happen. Feel free to pick this up, so you don't tell me we're friends and I didn't warn you in time. Be careful, if you're building that security detail, you're building security, don't make a guard. Because when a guard guards a facility, it keeps them from leaving the facility and not keeping them from those who need to enter the facility. Here's the court. People should come in and solve their problem, not keep judges locked up that they have to judge. Secondly, if you really want to make a savings, then the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Defence and all others who have home security, the President of the National Assembly, must, all those whose houses are guarded, by 15-20 people, by three or four shifts, put in a CZ floor under the Legion. The first cell of Tadic, the second cell of Cvetkovic, the third cell of Djelic. One can keep them safe. Free heating, free food. They can fight and the media won't announce anything. People will be free to catch criminals instead of guarding their facilities. It would be the right to save and disbursement the Republic of Serbia's budget from unnecessary costs. I deliberately for the sake of the viewers have shown this in a funny way, in order to better understand, but I invite you all to watch the Second RTS Programme, because here you hear the real things that interest the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You can learn something, what's the difference between the police, the guards, the security, and who needs to be guarded in this country. Mr. Novakovic, you have two minutes left. Hurry to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7888	Thank you. The replica was reported by Mr Milos Radulovic, rightly speaking, of the heretics mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7889	Mr. Krasic, it's not three percent, it's one percent true. So, the law has been broken, the District Court made two entirely different decisions on the same day: one decision goes in favour of those who have complained, those who have been suspended, and the other decision is to take the mandates of DS committees in Bruce. But the scariest thing ever happened in the next town. Within two months, or three, terrible things happened: they threatened the city's president and the current president of the municipality, physically harassed him; they beat up a councilman from the village of Stubal, the municipality of Alexandrovac. The last thing happened two days ago when they beat up a member of the Municipal Council, a DSS official. These are facts, and nothing is done to shed light on the circumstances under which it happened and who is responsible for such things. We are constantly calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that the Assembly is a black spot in the process of European integration. But the institutions don't act on us, so those who have to chase and punish those responsible for such acts don't punish or investigate the circumstances under which it happened. The obligation of every serious state is to protect people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7890	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7891	Mr. Novakovic, you heard what Mr. Radulovic said, he says it's not 3%, but 100%. I'm calling for Article 104. I told Mr. Radulovic, if it's three percent and it's a lot, and if it's one hundred percent, it's a lot, that's it, the difference is in construction. You know, I had one who pretended to be a great friend of mine, so he said he was a great hedonist, and I couldn't convince that all the people of the birth were hedonists, only the difference is that I'm a hedonist with 100 euros, and he's a hedonist with 1000 euros; my intensity and his is the same, but the rank of hedonism is different. Hedonism is a perfectly normal thing with every living thing, only an idiot would want to torture himself, a normal man wants to live well, but they've made something out of it. However, you've reminded me of some things. I am not surprised at the behaviour of DS and young Major Djurisic. You'll see in a few days, listen to what I've told you, there's something worse prepared here to hide in this... Look, when it's the biggest crisis, then they're going to take out the government's moves. Just to remind you, at the time of the biggest hyperinflation in 1993, when everyone was thinking about how to save the state, how to organize something, that man re-stealed the book and called the election. And they all wanted to faint – at the end of 1993 they increased the number of mandates. Why? Because fear has done its part. Fear rules Serbia. Let me explain something to you. A great hedonist gave an hour of 4,000 euros to the president of the municipality of Zemun. I think it's 50 euros, but it doesn't matter, he said it's 4,000 euros. This man wants to faint, he says, "What have I earned?" He says, "You deserve it by giving the location across the street from the House of Pensioners in Zemun, where it was "Purity," so she gave it back to the municipality of Zemun, to give it, or the municipality, to that tycoon and to that tycoon, you'll get so much, this one will get so much." Wait, he can't build a hotel or apartments. No problem, I ended up at the city level with Dragan Gilas, and he's in the game. (President: Time.) Of course, the man returned the watch, everything was revealed, that great hedonist said – we will not touch your municipality of Zemun. So, what happened? A few days ago, you had a failed coup. You're behind it. (President: Your time is up. I'm sorry, Mr. Novakovic, I just bought you a little treat, so I'm counting on you to show some tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7892	The amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric to Article 78. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7893	Four amendments to DSS MPs, as I have already said, refer to this whole chapter on the seventh -- Court Security; the first is mine, then this amendment by counterpart Arsen Djuric, then the amendment of counterpart Miroslav Petkovic and counterpart Aleksandr Pejcic. Once again, I try to appeal to the parliamentary majority. I can understand the minister because of the position she is in; probably by the time she reaches the first deputy, or the first vice president, or the minister of police, or whatever it is, I know that the president of the SPS, Ivica Dacic, and until he's agreed with him on when someone will do something, it may take some time, and probably now she can't, without consulting or sitting down with the government, accept these amendments. But I think this is completely logical. A moment ago, in his style, Honorable counterpart Krasic said the difference between the guard and the police. I mean, really, the guards, now someone's standing and guarding... So if we're talking about the standards that we're so keen on, these four amendments should be accepted because they give a whole new picture and give what it takes to the courts. Waiting for the police to change their law on police, where she now has certain powers, and then renegotiate on changing the law in the area of justice, is completely pointless. Please adopt these four amendments. I claim that the capacity of the Ministry of the Interior is such, or this first ring around the minister and the people who have to do this, that it will be done very quickly. I know them all, they haven't changed, because it can't get Dacic any better. In principle, they will do so very quickly both by amending and supplementing this Police Act to adapt to this solution. Namely, what does Mr. Arsen Djuric say in his amendment? He defines further powers, and here he is unfortunately called - the judicial guards. It's enough to see, it's some two paragraphs, here it's much more concrete and according to European standards everything is foreseen, as far as law enforcement is concerned, not the guards. In full, Article 78 is deleted, and our proposal adds: "The security of the person, property and objects of the courts include preventing illegal actions directed towards the person, object and property of the court, preventing the introduction of weapons, explosive devices and other dangerous things, destruction or alienation of property. "I'm sorry, Mr. President, now he's switching from one side to the other this laptop and with this picture he's unfocusing me all the time. "1) The protection and security of the person, property and facilities of the court and the maintenance of order in the court shall be carried out by judicial police officers of the Ministry of Justice or by another body responsible for security matters. 2) The tasks referred to in Article 1 shall be carried out using technical means of protection, physical strength and means of coercion 3) In the performance of protection operations, the means of coercion are permitted: physical strength, binding means, rubber rod and firearms. "We even got a letter from people who work in those services, here, I'll show one thing, where they... Unfortunately, according to this accelerated procedure of ours, the amendment has been handed over, and we don't see it all. They suggest that they also be provided with electroshocks, small forces, not what Americans use, but less power, which are much more effective than using a stick or, God forbid, guns in the protection of property and persons in the judiciary. Then: "5) The means of binding a judicial police officer is allowed to use for refusing to attack, preventing resistance and handing over a person to the police. 6) The use of a rubber rod is allowed if the use of physical strength remains unsuccessful. 7) The use of firearms is permitted if other means of coercion cannot be rejected simultaneously or directly pending an illegal attack that threatens the life of a judicial police officer or other persons. A police officer will warn the person who attacks before using firearms, if the circumstances allow it. Firearms are not allowed to be used if it would endanger the lives of other persons. 8) Sublegal acts on how to protect the person, property and objects of the courts are brought by the minister of justice. "It is foreseen by our amendment. So we literally predicted everything. This is already in German law, in the laws of a large number of EU countries, and I don't see what the problem is. Indeed, the court guard is a bit out of date. We know what the guards are, we know what the police are. That's two completely different things. This is a much better solution. One day we'll have it anyway. That's what you're saying in your own explanation for the rejection of the amendment. This amendment was rejected with an explanation that is the same, you say, as well as the amendment of MP Dragan Shormaz, and each of the following. You say it's good, it's supposed to be in the law, but you have to agree. I repeat, we've been waiting so many years for the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport to agree to pass a new traffic law. There's no need to wait for this. Now we enroll in the law, please, Dacic, make changes and additions, and he'll make amendments and additions to the Police Act and he'll be here very soon. It's even a law that we certainly wouldn't even be discussing, because it would come from this, this change; why would we discuss it, it would end very quickly and we wouldn't have any need, it would be pure intervention. That would soon end in the congregation procedure. I urge you once again, sit back and consider it. I think it is technically very easy to implement and that Parliament should accept these four amendments, vote in the voting day and thus correct this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7894	Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7895	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of me, I support this amendment by my colleague Arsen Đuric, for the following reasons. Article 77 The draft law on the regulation of courts gives a practical explanation of why I support this amendment. In this regard, Article 77 provides that the judicial guard is to take care of the safety of people and property, order and peace, and the smooth conduct of official operations in a judicial body building. Article 78, as proposed in the law, provides for the powers of the judicial guard. The amendment of counterpart Arsen Đurić makes it much clearer to explain and mark the powers of the judicial guard and which consists of taking care of the safety of people and property, as well as the smooth conduct of official actions. This is one aspect of the judicial guard provided for by the draft law. The second aspect can be found in Article 78 whose erasure is proposed by the amendment. He foresees the authority of the judicial guard to move away persons who are not properly dressed, or not to let them into the judicial building. Then the question arises whether it's a judicial guard or if it's some kind of public morality guard? If the Watch is a public morale, then it should be marked in Article 77 that it is a judicial and moral watch. This authority given to the judicial guard is quite broad authority because it leaves in the jurisdiction of those guards, so persons at the entrance to the judicial authority, to decide whether or not someone is properly dressed. We had a situation in the courts that citizens couldn't get into the court building because one of the guards thought they were dressed rudely, and that rudeness consisted, for example, in the fact that the ladies didn't have long enough pants or that they intended to go into court with no sleeves. I'm talking about the summer period, when they're at plus 40 degrees, please imagine, quite rudely, the ladies wanted to get into open finger sandals. So then we had these situations that the court officials threw some long-sleeve sweaters out the window, jackets, so that these faces that were in sleeveless dresses could get into the courthouse building. We had a situation where the couple couldn't get into court because the lady had the sandals with her fingers open, and then the gentleman lent her shoes number 45, and he sat down on the sidewalk and took her sandals without fingers and waited for the lady to do what they came for, so respectable and decently dressed, in shoes number 45 on legs number 37-38, to protect the dignity of the court. So I don't say this as a joke or as a joke, this has been happening very often in Belgrade courts, especially in courts in the provinces, specifically in the County Court of Zrenjanin. There were cases that the ladies knew they couldn't get into those dresses without sleeves wearing sweaters to plus 40, so they went into court thinking they were going to cheat on the courthouse, so they were taking off those sweaters in the hallways and then being harassed in the halls of the court, chasing them literally to remove them, so rudely dressed. I can tell you, when I entered the building, in the Assembly Hall, I was found in a concrete state as to the dressiness of Madam MPs. I can tell you that many MPs would certainly not have entered the district court building dressed like I found them here at plenary sessions. Not wanting to criticise anyone's dress, I'm merely citing an example of the court's authority that may not allow women to enter, especially women, if the court feels they're dressed rudely. And I think there's a lot of fetish, because for someone it might be rude for a woman to walk into a dress without a sleeve, and for others, it's rude to get into a short skirt. In Zrenjanin, for example, as a criterion of rudeness, they chose dresses without sleeves, so that they could automatically enter the minivan, whatever you want. So, if we continue to retain this practice in law, we are again allowing such a situation for people to be prevented from accessing subpoenas, to be violently removed from court or court hall just because one of those judicial guards (which normally consists of members of the male sex) for what reasons is considered to be a person, especially a female, unsuitably dressed. We had a situation, say, in Zrenjanin that the older ladies who rode bicycles from nearby places, about ten kilometers away from Zrenjanin, came in their pants three quarters long, meaning something slightly above that decent length that the guards had predicted, so they had to sit in front of the court or go to the store to buy themselves pants that were competent according to the judge's assessment. Otherwise, many hearings for this reason have been postponed. People lost their case because they couldn't access the trial. This subject may seem trivial, but unfortunately, once again in a circle of people, it's about people who are not judges but judicial guards, we allow that possibility to appreciate whether anyone can get into court or not, whether someone is insulting the reputation and authority of the court. The reputation and authority of the court cannot be obtained by prohibiting someone from entering a court with short sleeves or sleeves, but by doing as prescribed by the law. Therefore, I propose that this amendment be adopted by counterpart Arsen Đuric and deleted by Article 78 and set up as proposed by the amendment, for all of these reasons that I have stated.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-20-0.u7896	Thank you. As agreed, we're working until 8:00. It's 20 o'clock. We're done with today. We continue on Monday, November 24th at 10pm, following an amendment to article 79 submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic.
