ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3611	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for today's work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for today's presidents to attend, as regards the examination of certain points of the agenda, Milorad Todorovic, State Secretary U MUP, Aleksandar Veljkovic, Head of the Ministry of Education and Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education. I welcome the guests invited and thank you for having responded to their presence. I would also like to introduce you to the review of the session of the committee scheduled for Thursday, October 9, 2008. at 11.00 p.m. – Legislative Committee; at 12:00 p.m. – Committee on Finance, Governor of the National Bank will participate in this session; at 13.00 p.m. the Committee on Foreign Affairs; at 14.00 p.m. the Committee on Privatisation; at 17.00 p.m. the Education Committee. We are moving to a common principled review of the 7th and 8th points of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON PARTIES AND A PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE PROTECTION OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint search on the draft law on foreigners and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the State Border, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours in principle, I find that the time of the debate is by the parliamentary groups as follows: Parliament group For European Serbia - hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - hour, 9 minutes and 36 seconds; MP group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; MP group "Forward, Serbia" - 24 minutes; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; MP group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Ambassador group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MP groups have authorized them to represent them on these points of the agenda: for the SRS MP Milorad Buh. In accordance with Article 140(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the proposal for a law on foreigners and a bill on the protection of the state border. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by Mr Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3612	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, is not a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure, there is more than one application for MPs to be able to respect members of the 225 and 226, i.e. to obtain the information necessary for the exercise of the function of the Members of Parliament. I express my satisfaction with the constructive work of yesterday, and I hope it will become a practice in this assembly and by accepting the LDP proposal that indeed the state authorities are running around the financial crisis that has affected the world and is pouring into Serbia. I welcome your appointment of the Finance Committee's session. This is my request: due to great interest in this session, if Mrs Dejanovic could give a break at 12:00, so that as many MPs who wish to attend the Committee on Finance and Talk with Governor Jelasic could attend. On the other hand, we have really important laws here regarding our country and the white Schengen list, and we simply can't be, we're interested in one and the other, in two places. I think that in the work of the session, an earlier lunch for those who do not want to sit on the Finance Committee, and allowing interested MPs to participate in the work of the Finance Committee, would be some compromise solution that would show that parliament becomes a place where important decisions are made and that one atmosphere of tolerance and co-operation is a really good way for Serbia to become a full member of the EU as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3613	I thank you for this proposal. In case the session starts with the usual time and work, we can take a break between 12:00 and 13.00 hours, but I will inform you of my decision just before that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, for some people these days, the main news in the paper was a giraffe. For me, the main news is another animal, which is no one, because the government of the Republic of Serbia continues to act as if it were a noose and has stuck its head in the sand, as if nothing was happening around it, at times when the world is shaking an unremembered financial crisis, the largest since 1929, such behaviour is irresponsible to Serbia's economic future. Yesterday I pointed out that the government has no prime minister, because he has not taken any responsibility, he is ignoring the current developments. We scheduled a Finance Committee today. Why just the Finance Committee? I asked the prime minister yesterday to address all MPs, because why not the Committee on Industry, why not the Committee on Economic Affairs, or the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. Well, this isn't just a financial system problem. This isn't a financial crisis, this is a global economic crisis. Of this, the biggest damage will be to not only those who have stakes in banks, of course, but even greater damage will be to all workers who are employed today in the Serbian economy. There will be much greater damage. I demand that the prime minister address us, everyone in the Assembly, and that the government urgently formulate a state strategy that would give answers to two questions: firstly, how to warn the financial crisis, and secondly, how to mitigate the consequences of the crisis. The government should have a solution for three specific cases, three scenarios. The first scenario is economic stagnation. When the situation is relatively good, stable, but there are disturbances in certain segments. It can identify new economic policy priorities and, very importantly, revise economic and social promises. Another way is to make changes in the selection of investment projects. The real proof that there has been a change of priorities in this government will be when a new one is received, not the one that has already been adopted, a completely unreal budget rebalance. There's a "B" scenario, it's economic depression. At that point, the development of the situation is bad, but it is really possible that the consequences are not catastrophic and economic activity is dropping, but macroeconomic processes have not yet taken control. It's a "B" scenario. The government should propose measures for this depression. The third scenario, worst possible, is economic recession. The worst development of a situation that directly endangers citizens, when banks enter bankruptcy, etc. What the state should do then, the government should respond. The government needs to lead us so that at best we're in scenario "A", in economic stagnation, and we can't let the wave that takes us to scenario "C", economic recession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3615	Of the new contents that you spoke about today compared to yesterday, you mentioned budget rebalance, and I want to inform you that he arrived in the Assembly and that in the assembly procedure, he is multiplying, but during the day you will have the opportunity to have the rebalancing text in your hands. Mr Dragan Markovic-Palma, go ahead and then Mr Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3616	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dacic, good day, here's a few days to talk about this giraffe and I have an obligation, really, to answer what it is, and especially to former Minister Velimir Ilic, who has been crying at the mitts for months, at a pay phone, how he's fighting for the better tomorrow, Serbian citizens. Mr. Velimir Ilic, you used to talk about me when I wasn't there, just to remind you that in 19 February 2008, the government whose minister you were made the decision, and it was announced by Official Messenger number 20, that 25 million were going to Jagodina for the ski track. Since, as a good host, I always watch what the priorities are for one city, I decided not to make a ski course because Jagodina should invest three times as much money in the ski track, I started making three kindergartens. And since I've already received from the government, whose minister you were, 25 million, I have the right to do so, I have again made a request that the funds instead of going for the ski track go for the development of tourism, for the zoo, Mr. Minister Velimir Ilic. That money doesn't go all the way for a giraffe. You said here the other day - every shit makes a government. You know what, Mr. Velimir Ilic, you may have a habit of being a minister, but habit is not a criterion for someone in life to become something. The criteria bring Serbia's citizens to the polls. Maybe it's a habit of beer and brandy. No one can argue with that. Mr. Velimir Ilic, you now pretend to be the greatest nationalist and patriot of all time. To remind you that your government, whose minister you were, delivered 16 Serbs to the UN tribunal, that the man with whom you were in the coalition had amnested 1,300 Shipara, Albanians who killed the Serb people at KIM. Mr. Velimir Ilic, you mentioned "Magnochrom" the King, shame on you, so you had the president of the municipality of two terms in the King and you were minister. The whole government was in your hands, so why didn't you help these people, in two hours you could have helped them. You're talking about me being a bad man, and you know how you made me... (President: Time. I'm sorry, I've never called... And I won't say now about what you and I know, and they don't know Serbia's citizens. If you make me, I'll say it too. (President: Time. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3617	Mr. Vlahovic, then Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3618	I am reporting, Madam President, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, so the MP is in charge, in Section 2, he writes, that he is talking about a subject that is on the agenda. In fact, the direct cause is Mr Popovic's discussion and I would like to say that at this point the greatest danger that threatens the global financial crisis is unnecessarily developed and unnecessarily created panic. There is no more serious blow that Serbia can suffer as a consequence of the financial crisis that has arisen on Wall Street, and in particular there is no, and I really want to draw attention to all MPs that everyone is equally responsible for creating the climate, which exists and that we must take care of it whether we are a position or opposition. You all know very well that the central bank runs a very sharp monetary policy, that the central bank has a very high rate of foreign exchange reserves, that 50% of the foreign exchange stakes are at the central bank, that the savings are fully protected. Therefore, I feel the need to address the citizens of Serbia and say, "You have no reason to worry about your foreign currency roles, they are safe." That doesn't mean that the little waves of the global financial crisis won't feel up to us. It is certain that there will be a slight increase in interest rates, but as you could see in the report yesterday, the eurybor is not growing. This in other words means that there are answers to the central bank of the European Union and, on the other hand, central banks of other countries that do not belong to the European Union, compensation for commercial interest growth. It is certain that financial investors will withdraw, but as you know the good news for Serbia is that Fiat is investing, Fiat is a strategic investor. As you know, Ikea announced an investment of one billion and five hundred million euros and very soon we will have the first Ikea man in Serbia, and that's good. It is good for strategic investors to invest in Serbia and it is good government policy to directly encourage these investments. It is certain that financial investors will partially withdraw, but I do not expect that effect to last longer than six months, and I expect the return of financial investors afterwards. So, to conclude, there's no reason to spread unnecessary panic in this high house, there's a need to talk about what the government is doing, and I'm guessing this is about communication that has to exist between the government and parliament. When today's session of the Finance Committee, we'll have a chance for everyone to say what they really mean. It is not a Serbian financial market, unfortunately, as well developed as the US financial market. No sophisticated instruments... (President: Time. _Other Organiser There are no sophisticated instruments of financial derivatives developed on Wall Street, therefore there is no danger such as some opposition MPs predict, fortunately for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3619	Thank you. I suggest that we move the economic and financial topics for the Committee's session, and that we go back to the agenda now. Here you go, Mr. Ilic, you've advertised the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3620	I want to accept this after these good news from Mr. Vlahovic, so today we'll discuss it on the Finance Committee. This is one maybe good news, not to be afraid, that it'll be all right. I would like to tell Mr. Markovic that I really didn't mention him in my discussion and I'm glad that Jagodina got the giraffe, but she didn't have to get it this way. And the press has been calling us all day and asking us, we didn't know who it was, how and who paid it, but what are you going to do, and that's some price that's been paid, and I've been commenting on it, how budget funds are being spent. There can't be a minister who's leading a realtor to have a million problems, to do that job, and that's not right. I asked that such things never happen again. I'm glad you're the $25 million, probably from that government, you gave it to the kindergarten, and that's good, that's great. Let's not always be like that, and I wouldn't want to think about brandy, beer, etc. But, my God, everything has its own, and don't be angry, the MPs have initiated a debate and it's evolved. I wasn't in that second part, I wasn't in or out, and I don't know how it ended because I had some obligations and I left. Therefore, we have warned that budget rebalances are being made, that the funds are being spent as the law requires, that the funds are being spent from the budget for projects planned by the budget law. We asked the parliament and the opposition to be supervisors of budget spending, not the Ministry of Finance through their financial inspection. So it's no big deal. Don't be mad. I'm glad you're doing well, I'd be glad to keep it up. My God, you have the right to search everything, and those who give must answer if it is not in accordance with the Budget Law. So, nothing personal, Mr. Markovic, don't be angry. What's more, I didn't mention you, or Jagodina, or your party in my speech, in my presentation. Afterwards, of course, MPs commented on it in one way. If you have something to say, say, I will be pleased, but what the government has delivered, which government, as well as in what way, it stands. They delivered many in many governments, you know that it was not done by ministers who did some work, construction of roads and others, that others, who are still in those services that function and co-operate with The Hague tribunal today. We can be in the soul and patriots and whatever you want, but some people had to do it at a certain point... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... They will suffer the consequences of their decisions, but I have never decided on them, nor would I have decided in such a way. We have serious issues here to deal with and yesterday we started a debate that is extremely important, and anyone should not be angry that there is concern in the country, which we are concerned about and that we asked for the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Governor to come, because that's what the people are asking of us. It's true there's a problem in the economy. It is true that there will be and that some problems are slowly overcoming, but it is not true... Mr. Ilichu, speak a minute longer. )......................................................................................................... that he can't go much faster, much better, and some ministers have been running away for years from the resolution of Bor, Majdanpek, Magnochroma. And believe me, the mayor can't solve the fate of several thousand people, that's the government's problem, that's the problem of the economy minister, the finance minister, and they have to solve it. Mr. Ilichu, you will have to bring an end. ) Can't a MP or anyone solve the fate of thousands of employees if privatisation is badly done. You knew very well that we could not participate in privatisation, nor can the courts protect certain companies from privatizing, breaking... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3621	National MP Ferzo Celovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I hadn't gone out for this pay phone right now, I would have left this assembly tomorrow, resigned. I'm starting with that -- I mean, so I exist. Gentlemen, I know what the opposition was afraid of. The UN news last night scared you. It doesn't mean she will return Kosovo, but it will help. That's what it's all about. Secondly, please, I will address your grandchildren, my grandchildren whom I have not yet, allow Serbia, my Serbia, your Serbia, to walk with dignity forward. I suggest we make three circles in the Republic Square, green, red and yellow, to have a common field. I spoke at Hyde Park. Please, my esteemed party president, Rasim Ljajic, the gentleman I highly appreciate, said, "I don't know if those are his words -- when elephants play, grass gets hurt." Yeah, that's what he said, colleague Todorovic, today I'm going to FON, our college, to look for advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3623	Mr. Nenad Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Second time according to the Rules of Procedure, second time 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3624	I would like to answer to my distinguished colleague, very respected, Mr. Vlahovic, that it is not the expansion of panic that opens eyes to both the prime minister and the people... (President: I ask the MPs to allow Mr Popovic to be heard. It's okay. We don't have to stick our heads in the sand. Here, tomorrow you have a meeting in Washington, the seven finance ministers of the world's leading economic countries. Romania closed the stock market yesterday. We don't live on an isolated island, when you say, we won't be touched by that crisis. Yes, we won't be so touched by this crisis, but today when we're connected, when we import and export from the EU, Russia, America, and there's an unprecedented crisis everywhere, we can't close our eyes, Mr. Vlahovic. I agree with you, we don't need panic, God forbid, but it's even worse than closing our eyes and not reacting. I have to say, the governor did a really good job, and I have to agree with you here, but absolutely, Mr. Vlahovic, I can't agree that the government is doing a good job right now. She hasn't formed crisis management, she's not doing anything about it, the budget rebalancing she's proposed absolutely doesn't fit the current timing. It's a budget rebalance that might have been adopted a year ago, six months ago, but certainly not today. As for savings, the governor has really done a good thing here, but how many Serbian citizens have their savings? You're only talking about one segment of financial business, and I'm talking about economy. The whole economy already feels that, Mr. Vlahovic, loans have been cut. Let the company tell you who works with commercial banks, did they get credit these days? No one's got credits these days. I agree you don't need to panic, but it's even worse to give up false hope. We need to squeeze the belt, the government needs to take concrete measures for all master's plans that are not needed now, building projects that will not bring profit should be stopped and a new rebalancing should be adopted, not as it is, but one that is suitable for a given moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3625	For the second time, I would like to inform you that you will have a rebalancing today, that it will be the next session and that we will have the opportunity to talk about budget rebalancing very soon. National MP Dragan Markovic-Palma, then Jovan Palalic. You're giving up? Thank you. Mr. Jovan Palalic. I hope to return to the current topic, the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3626	Your Honor, this is all a agenda and these are all issues that are of interest to the citizens. Article 226. Since the word "panics" has been mentioned several times in the National Assembly yesterday because of this huge economic crisis that is rocking the world, we asked you yesterday as presidents of the Assembly, as the most responsible person who can provide certain programs and answers to the public and the National Assembly, so that this atmosphere that is being created on the street, because citizens are concerned, could calm down and get answers so that we can clearly see in which direction the state is going. In that sense, several times, the MPs of the DSS and I as a member of the Parliament club invited you to invite the Prime Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, to come to the National Assembly. The only one who can answer all these issues that remained controversial, and yesterday we mentioned them several times, in addition to the major economic crisis, besides the fact that we have a situation of very vague relations between the Republic of Serbia and the EU. We see Ollie Rehn is in Kosovo. What is this relationship with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and whether additional conditions are being set for Serbia. Serious problems within the government regarding the realisation of a gas-oil deal with the Russian Federation and the attempt by individual members of the government to mining the agreement. So Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic should come to the National Assembly. The prime minister can only give answers, with all due respect to the governor of the National Bank and as an assistant or deputy finance minister has been announced, which will be on the Finance Committee today. That is not enough, for both the MPs and the public of Serbia, and for citizens to receive concrete answers that the government wants to react and that it intends to react to what is happening. Be assured that we will ask this question every day. It's not enough just to get a notice that we're going to send a letter that we're going to call Mr. Cvetkovic at some point. We also asked after the European Commission's decision not to unfreeze the transitional agreement with Serbia to open a discussion at a session that you organised with the head of parliamentary groups, to open a discussion on the National Assembly. We see now that the EC intends to make certain moves towards the fake state of Kosovo. Mr. Ollie Rehn, in that sense, has certain activities. Please invite the Prime Minister to come to the National Assembly and respond to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3627	As soon as possible, I contacted the prime minister yesterday and informed you of the results of that conversation, as well as the governor of the National Bank. So we already have the order of activities as a Assembly. Today, the governor will again, inform the public and you, at 12 o'clock and participate in the work of the Finance Committee. Next week, the Prime Minister and Finance Minister will also be here. We have strong convictions, which are also available to the general public through the media, that there's no reason to panic, and I'm afraid that by potentizing us and after everything we've done, we're making a little panic ourselves. So please return to the agenda today's session. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3628	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm acting on my behalf. 104. The Rules of Procedure, which says that MPs must respect the dignity of the National Assembly and that they are obliged to address one another with respect. I react on the basis of what Mr. Ferzo Celovic said and in a way that he understands why the opposition behaves that way because it is unhappy because of what happened in New York yesterday. In other words, opposition MPs here are accused of not taking care of Serbia's interests and that those who rejoice are only when Serbia is bad. On behalf of the DSS and on my own behalf, I can say that I am truly very unhappy to hear that anyone in that way address anyone in this congregation. MPs have been elected by citizens to represent the will of citizens. Just because the opposition thinks differently from the position and the opposition thinks that the position can work better and better, doesn't mean that someone has to tell me that I'm a traitor, that I'm looking forward to my people's misfortune. All forces of DSS iMilica Vojić-Markovic will use, and knowledge, and ability, and honesty for the account and for the benefit of this country. That's why I'd like the gentleman to apologize to my MP group and myself personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3629	Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3630	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have reported in accordance with the article. 100. I think what I said here yesterday at the beginning of our debate was incorrectly interpreted and that this triggered a political process that was directly contrary to what the LDP's intention was, with which I met you, the president, as well as the other heads of Parliament clubs, two days ago. You can't search for an answer to economic problems, which are obvious and which cannot be ignored, bring here a party war that we recognize in the occasional charms of yesterday's coalition partners. It's the opposite of what was our intention yesterday. We must organise and jointly define a system of measures that will help our economy and the banking sector and protect our population by giving it additional security. Discussing the quality of a government and inconsistencies in budget rebalancing can make sense if they are presented in a different way and in a completely different atmosphere. What is essential is the fact that, in fact, the wrong economic policy has been run here for years, and that the budget, which is being discussed today, through the application of the Rules of Procedure, has been as bad as the rebalancing itself. And he himself was inflation. Mr. Cvetkovic's government has slowed down, Mr. Popovic, inflation pushed by the government of Mr. Kostunica. But now that ping-pong we'll have no use for it. You're right when you say it's an inadequate budget rebalance and that's what the governor himself said before. We are right when we seek coordinated action because there is no answer to economic problems if the government leads one policy and the central bank has another policy. But I'm also asking you to agree on some initiatives, because the proposal your party launched yesterday, about the increase, about amending the mandatory deposit insurance law, would be okay if it were in line with those who could do it. Banks need to be helped by the state instilling additional security to the population, but we need to go through consultations with the state itself to this level of assistance. Otherwise, if we behave here the way we normally behave as authorities and opposition on some issues, we will not answer in the way that we want, as LDP, together with other parties to answer. These are very important topics and every spoken word has a great weight, and during yesterday we spoke and mentioned, among other things, a certain bank, but not with the intention of sending the citizens of Serbia a message that the banks we are talking about, I personally spoke about ERSTE Bank and UniCredit Bank, that they are not liquid here in Serbia, but rather, I have cited examples of problems burdening our banks, because the state is silent and not responding when it has to react... (President: Time)... The same is true with Hypo-rile-state bank, which has nothing to do with the Hypo-alpe-adria bank here in Serbia, but silence is the absence of real information at the right time brings society into trouble. We have, Madam President, and that's fine, talking to the governor at 12 o'clock, but we don't have all the prerequisites for this conversation to end some concrete and effective measures. That's where the director of the stock exchange is needed. The meeting should also be attended by the first person of the Securities Commission, and what is very important, we also need the presence of the Prime Minister at the meeting. If the president doesn't have reasonable reasons, there's no finance minister for justifiable reasons, then we need to get an adequate interviewer through one of the vice presidents. The presence of the Secretary of State for Finance will not be enough for what we want to do today, and certainly here we need an extraordinary session to define together measures, with the ambition to help banks, protect the population and help our economy. Everyone here has to do their part of the job. The government needs to change budget rebalances, the National Bank needs to change the reference interest rate, and we need to instill trust in the population and, together with the population, find additional energy to get out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3631	Mr. Milan Veselinovic, also advertises the Rules of Procedure. The Finance Committee may also invite other persons who consider it to help the Committee work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure, Art. Paragraph 104, which says - People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. The previous speaker, Mr Ferzo or Faizo, as I don't know his exact name, came out for this pay phone and as a liberator in one way insulted the entire opposition, primarily the SRS, when he said here that the decision to the Security Council in New York would be granted only one part, or the authorities here in the Parliament's Assembly, and the other part of the opposition that has been fighting for Kosovo and Metohija for years, for the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, has offended by saying that they gather red, yellow, green, somewhere on the square one, and the other on the other, and so together to celebrate in Belgrade. On this occasion, I use this gentleman, known for the fight of human rights in the area of old Raška, to invite him to continue the fight and to gather there in Gjilan, the second in Prizren, the third in Uroševec, the fourth in Kacanik, the fifth in Mitrovica, and to jointly be the gathering of them together to profil through Pristina. Then it would mean something to both this parliament and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. In this way, he only discriminates against people who are truly and truly fighting for Kosovo and Metohija. These days, SRS MPs have shown from this pay phone that we are the ones who are asking to discuss Kosovo and Metohija as a more important problem than Schengen visas, from our 108 signatures, and you have ignored it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3633	The People's MP Milorad Buha is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here to discuss the conditions of the global financial crisis, which will in any case affect the financial situation in Serbia. Here we have to say that the effects of this financial crisis, the global and global crisis, will not have certain major consequences on the financial system, but for one reason only: we have left the financial system in this country to foreign banks. We sold our banks to foreign banks, and that way the effect of the financial crisis will be small. We have replaced the thesis rather than worry about how to protect our banks and in Serbia's banking system, we have only eight banks with only ten percent of the financial resources available to this state in capital terms. This is why the effects of this financial crisis will be small, because we have sold everything that is active for our country's financial system. We have to say here and here must be stressed, the public needs to know that in the monetary-financial sphere we have huge problems, starting with the reference rate that is the largest in Europe. Our interest rates at which citizens and business entities take loans are the largest in Europe. Our base inflation that was supposed to range between 3 and 6% is now between 8 and 10%, not percent, but even more than 100%. That's what we need to talk about. The relationship between active and passive banking interest is so great that it's almost nowhere in the world. Foreign banks take loans, as well as our banks in some situations, take loans at a rate of between 5% and 7%, and sell the same loans in cash, in consumer loans, between 20% and 30%. You can see the ratio of active and passive interest. That's how much money they make. We left the banking system to foreign banks and made it possible for foreign banks to profit from this active and passive interest. When they show the indicators, then we see it for 2006 about 200m euros, last year it is about 300m euros, this year it will be 500m euros. Now, these are all the indicators we need to talk about here. The governor of the National Bank warns of the percentage of public spending in our budget. He's the biggest in Europe. Shouldn't that concern this congregation and all the state institutions? He's got to worry and we need to talk about everything here because without it, there's no positive shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3635	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3636	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform the public and you, the Finance Committee is scheduled for 12 hours, with the subject - Report on measures taken to mitigate the effects of the international financial crisis, with a special reference to the state of not only the financial system, but the economy and citizens, because this crisis can also have an effect on their living standards. I'm not going to let anyone talk about this subject in a way of dramaticity because as a professional, economist and banker, I'm not going to let any panic spread behind the general interest and interest of the citizens. Because someone who doesn't know anything about money must know that the value of money and the banking system is even on the line. The creation of panic has just the opposite reason. What principles dramaturgy rests on, I don't know, and I don't meddle in it, but in my job as well as I know it, I don't allow anyone to interfere in any other way. Otherwise, about the composition of the people who will attend the Committee, to inform you that Mr. Milko Stimac has just called on the phone and offered to come and attend the meeting. I personally apologized for not putting him on the list of people who should be present at that Finance Committee. Here, to keep you informed, he'll be there, ready to answer questions. The real topics, Mr. Jovanovic, do I object to someone not to take away my mandate, not the topics of office, are much bigger things. I have no reason to court anyone, but I have no right to fail the profession I've been representing here in this room for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3637	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3638	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no need for you, Mrs Tabakovic, to protect Serbia from LDP. If you knew what you were doing, you would have chosen at the right time the party you're dealing with politics. This way, when there is one, there are two, where there are two there are three, but it is not a topic for the LDP, nor should it interest the citizens of Serbia. What you're doing has definitely nothing to do with what you're formally trying to represent as your intention. Mr. Stimac received a letter from the LDP Parliament Club, in which we invite him to attend the session, since you have not arrived because of your numerous party obligations to do so. The same is the case with Mrs Dobrnic, as with all other persons we need for adequate discussion and quality decisions. What the LDP has been talking about for days is the opposite of what you're doing right now. You're re-emphasizing party divisions in a business where party divisions can't be any place until it becomes clear who's talking about whose interest. That's what's very important right now. By contesting our political initiative by the alleged absence of qualifications, you are actually talking about yourself, in a way that you are not prepared to put your results ahead. Your qualifications are discussed by your results, Mrs Tabakovic, as well as the qualifications of those who are your leaders and, eventually or at the beginning, as well as our qualifications. The results of our policy are that after five years of accounting with this policy and these results in this society, however, the idea of a European Serbia is affirmed. As far as LDP is concerned, we will say everything we have to say about the country's economic policy to the Finance Committee, whose session we have been asking for days, and as far as you are concerned, I would like to assure you once again that there is no need for you to subdue your function to the interests of the ruling coalition, which you did not ask for, and that LDP certainly will not build its position on you based on your closeness or distance from the ruling coalition and LDP, but on your relationship with the essential problems of this country. When you took the right views on these problems, we were one of the few parties in this House who spoke publicly, just as we have no problem today saying that we are not interested in good or bad radicals, that we are interested in the only interest of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3639	Mr. Zoran Krasic. Here you go. I hope you make a contribution to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3640	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have been violating the Rules of Procedure for days, from the front page to the end. So I wouldn't be a professional of Dusan Kovacevic, like this citizen lady who was here, just to let you know that you've violated the members of 27th and 104th and that I don't order any further, quite enough to start. As this citizen spoke beneath it stood SNS - Serbia has no salvation. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, this lady has just introduced herself here. She's only here to protect her immunity, Mr. Dacic. There is a small group of people who allow Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic to sit here and be immune. It's not even a political party, it's not even a citizens' association. Mr. Dacic, they're terrorists. They're not in the books at all. The evidence that they're terrorists is the fact that they support DS. Have you seen how they defend, better than Hope Kolundji? Have you seen a professional defend? And from every bank she's been expelled from where she worked. That's what we're finding out now. Mr. Micunovic has answered the line, ma'am, and I'm helping you conduct the session. Mr. Micunović, you have a chance... As you can see, the protagonist of democracy has designed it this way -- everything will be talked about in the Assembly, everyone will be in a fight over elementary things, so that they can keep on fighting. It all has its beginning and its end. There's no new Berlusconi. He tried Karic, so he didn't do anything. Now Berlusconi is trying through someone he calls a political father, and he's called a political son, so he says "Dad has made political progress", strengthened with a pro who defends politics, defends foreign banks. When was she right: when she attacked Dinkic or when she praised Dinkic? What changed attitude? I didn't understand, because I can't understand that it's over 50 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3641	Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I asked a question based on Article 226, the president of the National Assembly - where is the legal basis to respect the request of the false president of the false parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic, that his MP club "Forward Serbia" be marked by the SNS? I asked the president of the National Assembly to explain what SNS abbreviations mean. SNS can't be a name. It's clear to all of us that it's some kind of shortened calling something that's supposed to be some kind of political party. I also reminded myself of the provisions of at least two laws that prevent and threaten criminal provisions for citizens who pretend to be members of a political party that is not registered. Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you still allow under the names and last names of not the MPs who stole the mandates of the SRS to go to SNS. I'm asking you again, what does SNS mean? Does this mean that tomorrow, if someone sent you a request to remove the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, to place a sixth and an all-seeing eye, to print out some mass password "epulibusunum" or "ordoaphao" etc., would you accept that request? You can't have every memo of someone who falsely presents themselves to respect and to sign it the way he wants it to be. Yesterday I said, it is undeniable that citizens in democracy enjoy certain rights, but only those rights defined by the Constitution and the law. No one in democracy has absolute freedom. Absolute freedom is anarchy. Parliamentary life involves certain rules defined by the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. I really ask you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to explain to us, I hope it's nothing difficult, what does that famous SNS letter mean, do they have any political weight and political significance, or metaphysically, or masseous, or is it a mark for some religious sect, a terrorist organization? What's this about? If it is that the Serbian Progressive Party is hiding behind the SNS, the party does not exist. The party exists only in the heads of individuals, it is not registered in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Does this mean that one rule, when it comes to political parties, applies to all political parties in Serbia, only Tomislav Berlusconi is subject to some other rule? If the SRS had to register, to be seduced by the date when the party legally acts, to write down the name and last name of the man, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who has been authorised to represent the SRS, since when do these rules not apply to Tomislav Berlusconi or Tomislav Tadic or to the citizen of Tomislav Nikolic, I don't already know what to call him? So I'm asking you to explain to us why you respected his request and what does SNS mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3643	Let me explain, you've been over a minute. I already gave an answer to your question yesterday, but I'll do it again. On 24 September 2008, Mr Nikolic provided the president of the National Assembly with the following text: "I am informing you that the MP group Forward, Serbia in congregation communication, will use the SNS abbreviations. You need to issue an order to use the abbreviations in the signing of MPs belonging to the Progressive Group, Serbia, as well as in all other official acts of the National Assembly." That's the reason. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Maybe now you'll hear the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3644	To all those who intend to address me, I have only one piece of advice to give. I advise you to prepare yourself for a debate on the subject of a financial crisis or the one on the agenda, not a debate on me. Me and you will be judged by stenograms, records that have been preserved in the Assembly, as well as in the heads of the Serbian citizens. We all go to that court. Don't expect me to rephrase to anyone any senseless remarks or statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3645	Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3646	Madam President, it may surprise you that I will not address you, I will address the First Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Mr Dacic. Mr. Dacic, you and I both know very well, you as current interior minister, me as your colleague from ancient times, and someone who has spent so much time with you in the Defence and Security Committee, that in a congregation hall, no thieves and police can sit. Is that right? That's why it's absolutely clear to me that at this point the leader of this outlaw gang, this Tomislav Nikolic, is not in the O.R., because you would have to arrest him, right, by the nature of your work. You are a well-informed man and as you know, this citizen Tomislav Nikolic has committed four serious crimes. This is the latest robbery of the party register, and that's what the public found out these days, and we'll talk about it more. We invited Mr. Dacic, a colleague of Martinovic did so ten days ago, and then she reacted, and I thank you for that, Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, and said that the Republic Public Prosecutor would have to react on the basis of our public appearances and do something about it. Now I'm asking you, Mr. Dacic, since you have all this knowledge and it's not an accident, I am now speaking to you as president of the SPS, that this abbreviations SNS is the same as Branislav Ivkovic's. Branislav Ivkovic was also signed, you remember that very well, Mr Dacic, when he took away five parliamentary mandates from you. They're the same, absolutely the same. What Mr. Todorovic says and the same Maestro, the shoplifting master, the thief, for the kidnapping. Mr. Dacic, we're not children and we can't play thieves and cops here. If the gendarmes are in the O.R., thieves don't belong here. Therefore, I ask you to respond and inform us, there are distinguished gentlemen of your closest associates, whether the police have taken action on this matter. Mr. Dacic, someone who commits such crimes must at the very least be detained for an informative conversation. Is that right? The police must react to protect voters and protect those of us who attend crime every day in the Assembly. So, with respect to what you're about to tell us by the proposal and by the set of these laws, let's first solve this crime in the Assembly, you're an influential man, you're the first Deputy Prime Minister and you're the minister of police and you should act, because I know, I'm absolutely confident... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... that you disagree with this and that you consider it an election theft, robbery and that the mandates of the SRS were elected on the list of SRS-Dr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3647	Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3648	I know it's difficult for you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I don't think you are responsible for what happened with the mandates of the SRS. The fact is that now you've got that hot potato in your hands to answer very difficult questions, ticky, questions that are essentially not so difficult, because the answer is known in advance. I know you know that answer. It would be good if you could give us an answer as the MPs, which is usually a question that is of interest to all citizens of Serbia. So, if the parliamentary club that was formed unconstitutionally, by breaking the law, by ending the election will of citizens, is called Forward, Serbia, as it is possible then for this club called Forward, Serbia is using the SNS abbreviations. So it doesn't make any sense. This is clear to the little kids. It's impossible to call something two words, and three letters are used in a short term. So, if they're called Forwards, Serbia, what does SNS mean? What do they mean by "S" in front of the NS? So, explain to the citizens of Serbia, to the MPs, where is the legal basis for using the SNS label and what does that mark mean? I remind you again, if that means the name of a party that does not exist, how it is possible for you to allow, as president of the National Assembly, that a political party that is not registered in Parliament acts. It's not possible. It is not possible that the rules of the Law on Political Organisations apply to all political parties in Serbia, only do not apply to one man and a group of 18-19 people around him. I can't understand that thing. I hope that you, as a highly educated woman, as a doctor, as president of the National Assembly, can explain to the MPs what these famous letters of the SNS mean. So I'm not asking anything else from you. If you give me a quality answer to that question, I give you my word, I will no longer answer the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3649	I understand your need to ask the same question on several occasions. I'm telling you honestly, I don't know what SNS means. Only, you know, that phenomenon of reading other people's thoughts is a very serious pathological phenomenon. I really ask that question, which I can't answer, because I just don't know what SNS means, you don't ask anymore. It is no longer subject to any member of the Rules of Procedure, and not particularly to advertising. On several occasions you asked that question and I won't let you ask that same question anymore. Here you go, Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3650	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, neuropsychiatricists tend to read other people's thoughts. You know your patients usually say - I'm a god. You had patients who said - I'm an SNS MP. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, there are probably 50 MPs who had to learn judicial psychology. Is that right, Mr. Ilic? We're the same generation in college, we had Professor Krstic, we had to go to Toponica to look for cases like these that say, "I'm a god, now God has told me something." Pure cases. We had a small group that said, we're MPs. Here, you see, and then you instead of treating them, you encourage them, so you say you don't know what SNS means. No one lives knows what SNS means. Now seriously to warn you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have violated the provision of article 27. The Rules of Procedure when this lady, who appears to have been the MP, came out here, she didn't call on the Rules of Procedure. I keep track of everything that's going on. I draw your attention to the continuity of this SNS. Open any newspaper and you'll see a SNS commercial. They abuse children, the girl laughs. You've seen the symbols, they're the symbols from The Hague, the cubes with the modified image and voice. We recognize them, Mr. Dacic. There's a criminal report going, there's a lawsuit going on, there's a lot of things going on. It will all be your first-stage patients, and in the second-stage patients Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Serbia's public needs to know. We're not comfortable talking about this, but we're talking about it because the Constitution, the law, is morality on our side. Every time they appear here, we will warn you of morality, the constitution, the law, Serbia and Vojislav Seselj. And these show the right predispositions, the Lambrose guy squats in them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3651	Mr Branko Ruzic, MP, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3652	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 103 and 104. For almost an hour and a half, we have not stuck to the agenda, which is extremely important because of the government's orientation towards European integration and because of the work that needs to be done by the MUP in that domain. Clearly, this is not a World Bank or IMF session. I think all those who are professional in their domains should do their job. We do not need to deal with dramaturgy or panic, there are simply competent authorities, and I am sure both the government and the National Bank of Serbia are already taking steps on the issue of all issues today in the world. But our market, which, with all due respect to the world, is very little, must be taken into account that in finance, psychological effects can only produce negative trends. In that sense, it is really not necessary to cause any panic, but I think it is high time that after an hour and a half, we move on to the agenda, to talk about what is on the agenda, and to establish the work of the Assembly as we did yesterday, regardless of, of course, that you all have the legitimate right to present for this speaker those topics that you consider to be of great interest, in order to get some political points. The topic of the financial crisis will find its starting point on the Finance Committee. Afterwards, perhaps at some session of the Assembly, but give what is on the agenda we are doing today, and that when it comes to the agenda, of course, we are also discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3653	Mr. Ruzic, I thank you for your constructive appeal to the MPs that we finally begin to work. We've been working on important, mostly important issues for an hour and a half already, but that aren't on today's agenda. I'm really asking that we go back to the agenda and work on the points that we've already spoken of, and I've opened up a debate. Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a violation of Article 23. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The provision reads: "The delegation group consists of the MPs of one political party, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have at least five MPs." If, in front of the individuals present here as MPs, under their name, the text "SNS", I ask you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, in view of the provision of Article 23(2). Rules of Procedure - is this about a political party, another political organisation or a group of citizens? If it is a group of citizens, a group of citizens can be formal or informal. If this is about a formal group of citizens, I really pray most kindly, without heavy words, without a raised tone -- where this group of citizens is registered, where the ministry, whether this group of citizens or political organisations has its statutes, whether it has an authorised person, who is authorised to represent in public this political organisation or a group of citizens, is there therefore any element prescribed by the Law on Political Organisations, which is fulfilled by these people who represent themselves as something called or called SNS? It is hardly possible for us today to move on to the agenda, as you would like, in a situation where parliament is in chaos. If you as president of the National Assembly don't know which parliamentary groups exist in the Serbian Parliament, as they are called, what do the abbreviations of certain parliamentary groups mean, so how do you think we're talking about the law on the security of the state border, the law on foreigners, higher education or any other topic? You can't bring parliament into chaos and when you bring it into chaos, then you say -- now we're going to work on the agenda, we have agenda points, we've adopted topics that are important to the citizens of Serbia, etc. Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, is in chaos. The Constitution, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, was violated by the National Assembly's decision to verify the mandate of MPs, a report by the RIK on the elections conducted on 11 May 2008, was passed by the Law on Political Organisations. Here, practically with your consent, crimes are being committed. You allow individuals to be falsely represented. "SNS" doesn't mean anything. These political parties don't exist. You allow illegal activity in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time, Mr. Martinovic. I really ask you to answer these questions. You have a secretary of the National Assembly who's a graduate lawyer, you have professional services. (President: Will you bring the end? I want to finish, here in two seconds, but I really ask you to answer these questions, because parliament is in a difficult situation, parliament is in chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3655	If you are dissatisfied with this answer, then I will ask you to make your MPs known in the voting day whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure in the way you have said it. I acted in accordance with Rule 23 of our Rules of Procedure, which says: "The National Assembly is educated by parliamentary groups, as a rule no later than seven days after the election day of the National Assembly president. The parliamentary group consists of MPs from the political party, political organisations or groups of citizens who have at least five MPs. A group of at least five members can also be educated by association by MPs of political parties, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have fewer than five MPs. The parliamentary group shall be established by submitting to the president of the National Assembly a list of members signed by each member of the parliamentary group. The list specifically lists the president of the parliamentary group and his deputy. The MP can only be a member of one parliamentary group." I acted on that article. If you're not satisfied, I gave the instructions. Mrs. Judita Popovic also reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the member?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3656	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and so on. 103, 104 and 105, for the following reasons. If you look at this monitor, you will see that 96 MPs from 250 are present in the hall — so much for the seriousness of access to this whole story about congregation debates on the agenda. As next, as of 10.00 hours, and now it's half twelve, it's pretty cheery in this room - shooting, jumping, giraffes and various topics are dominant. You can truly personally believe that there is no serious public in this country, that this people don't know what's going on here and what we're doing as MPs. However, I warn you that this public, that these citizens have all elected us as their representatives in this highest legislative body, and I will always point out that whenever I go out for this pay phone, that this is the supreme legislative body. The ruling majority, in addition to having privileges, also has a responsibility, and responsibility just stems from the majority, has power, therefore, is the creator of politics. So I'd like to ask you to really start working, to do what we're doing in this room. The LDP has raised some serious questions yesterday, that these are life issues, that they are serious, that they are not naive at all also the fact that our proposal is scheduled by the Finance Committee and that the governor has been called, unfortunately only by the governor. Therefore, I suggest that the session be terminated and at 12 o'clock is this Finance Committee. When it's done, we can keep working, because obviously with this dynamic, this kind of approach to today's problem, we're not going to do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3657	Thank you. Twenty-five MPs were speaking after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now Mrs. Lidija Vukicevic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3658	Gentlemen, I've heard the speaker before me and I don't think it's an accident at all, and it's quite all right that, first of all, the MPs of the SRS are being held for stealing their mandate. So, the Assembly as the Supreme Legislative Body has seen and caught in stealing MPs who stole the mandates of the SRS. Mandates have been stolen. They are hiding behind these mandates that are no longer theirs and are ready to participate in the work of the Assembly, in the adoption and discussion of these very important laws that we have on the agenda today. In their unscrupulousness, they are willing to vote the laws for others, and they make exceptions for themselves. Those who had any cheeks retreated to the rear lines. However, gentlemen, I must tell you that I am terribly interested, perhaps I will get an answer, what General Bozidar Delic, who is currently not here, is doing in the vice president's seat. To correct myself, General, for a simple reason, I'll be very honest, so I'll say, if anyone understands the general, it's me, the generals don't cry. Vice President, here's to correct, Bozidar Delic should leave this place immediately, head towards the back lines, and then out of the hall all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3659	The word is Mrs. Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3660	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, my colleague Martinovic advertised article 23. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, after which you gave one answer, but you will allow me to interpret it as completely inadequate and unsuspecting, because in order for someone to sit in this House, that someone has to go to elections. That someone must at least say that a group of citizens, must represent a coalition, some political party that, before we came to this parliament and determined who would be the MP from which the parliamentary lists, went to the voters and told them what they were offering and what they would do if they got it and gained citizens' trust. We have 230 MPs, but we have 20 MPs who didn't go to the election. You've really put us in a position to allow them here, in the highest legislative body of a state, to be falsely represented. The fact that viewers who follow this transmission can read above certain individuals that they are members of some virtual and non-existent political party, it is indeed unacceptable and it is an attack on parliamentary democracy, not to speak of a criminal act. Since the police minister is here, I'd have to remind him of his authority, as well as the possibility of using the means of coercion towards a group of persons, which are these 20 persons. Article 85. The law on police says that an authorized official is authorized to issue an order to a group of persons to disintegrate if the group is illegally gathered, and the illegal group is gathered here, acting against the law, and so it can challenge what is causing in parliament, that we talk about it. And if the group doesn't disintegrate, the following means can be used: physical strength, you don't have to do it; official bat, you don't have to hit yourself; special vehicles, can't get in here; official dogs can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in, can't get in for these dogs and horses, can't get out of this group, can't get around this group, can't get around this group, can't get around here, can't get around here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3661	Mrs. Pop Lazic, you really belong to the MPs of exceptional education when it comes to the knowledge of both the Constitution and the law and the Rules of Procedure. I think that, more than I do, it is even clear to you that we can only determine the mandates and their termination, and that other institutions, which are the Court, the Administrative Board and the RIK, are involved in the process of delivering materials for one or the other. Therefore, you are fully aware of the ingenuity of this congregation and of what we can do in the whole process. So, the launch of all procedures, from you, from anyone. You need to do everything you think you need to do. This assembly can determine the termination of its mandate when such a proposal arrives, and this is already known to the public, and to you as someone who knows the procedure so well, that I do not speak. I just find it unusual that I have to put myself in a position to give you an answer to a question that is more than familiar to you. Mr Branimir Djokić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the MP's question, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 225 and 226, Mr. Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, Deputy Prime Minister. I would like to ask within as short a time as possible if it is possible to come to an explanation and explanation for the citizens of Zapac, given that I am from that space. Here's the thing. Last year, in June, in the village of Pocerska Dobric, which is ten kilometers from Sapac, where I come from, the House of Culture was renovated in the village. There were over 2,000 people at the opening of that house. The home was made out of money donations from various people who helped, and I am one of these and the money of many people from the village. This home is made for children with folklore, gathering and it is the only place where the youth in that village can gather. Unfortunately, that home has been doing everything for three months. This is interesting and should be heard by Serbian citizens. It came October 5th, since, of course, there are people from all political parties in the village, members of the DS celebrated, according to the stories of my locals, October 5th. It was one bar, they were here all night celebrating, which is not controversial. Somewhere before dawn, about five hours ago, there were five people left, that's what the local witnesses say, in an alcoholic state, and that house burned down. That house burned down completely. There are witnesses who have stayed here. I'm not saying that these people burned down, I'm not saying, no one claims in the village, but you know who was in that house at five o'clock in the morning when the house was burned down. Of course, they probably had a chance to be their rapper burning Parliament, television, and of course, to this day no one called, neither the Capca MUP, nor the Capca Assembly, even though the locals were totally coming to the president of the municipality, the vice president. Now they've made a petition, 600 people have signed to get to it: who did it and what? No one's answered that to this day. I beg you as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3663	Time. You speak absolutely past the Rules of Procedure, but I understand your sincere intention to get answers from the minister, or to get to know him, but it's already been three minutes, so please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3664	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226. I use the opportunity, the presence of the interior minister, to re-emphasise the problem of maintaining the SRS rally and the loss of life, one at that rally. Among other things, the situation in the Serbian Parliament could in some ways be projected for both this and that previous rally, which was held in support of the rest of the KIM within Serbia's borders. And then and now one life is lost. And then and now all responsibility should be placed on the MUP, and the fact that the ministers are from one party should be transferred to that party. The fact that everything that we've had from that material we've been able to see is that it's all organized, both for the first time and for the second time. For the first time a magnificent rally, the second time a magnificent rally, has only ruined certain directed events that have occurred. One at the American embassy, so carved as in a movie, where one man also lost his life. The second rally -- also one man lost his life and you can totally see the whole direction, as it was done. Among other things, you and your report here state that you had only 900 members of the gendarme and 825 police officers from outside Belgrade. So 1,725, and you recorded 130 or 150, it doesn't matter, those hooligans, the ones who started to make a mess. It's just amazing that so many police forces weren't able to disable what happened. In the end, there was an accident, that one man was killed. I wouldn't mention what happened to the MPs right now. This is something tragic that we can't cross over. Personally, I don't think you should go over it as a minister either, but also as president of the SPS, because the mandate will end, but it will remain the event, which will somehow be tied to you. I think it was deliberately done, I'm sure it was deliberately done, and I'm sorry that you didn't make a little more effort to get to the real facts. Someone designed it. Someone who was responsible for a riot at the SRS rally, someone who wanted human victims, as he wanted at the first rally, to get into a situation to blame, in the first case, there were more parties, in the second case, to blame the SRS. According to what's going on here, in the Assembly, the scenario is quite clear. The yellow company calmly, philosophically, sit down, they're not interested in anything at all. They have those who send a pay phone on pager to defend them. The speaker of the assembly must work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, trying to make it as appropriate for parliament, however, citizens are looking at the opposition, the extent of dissatisfaction should be at the opposition, and whoever is sitting at the presidency, or at the SPS. We've been in politics for a long time. Nothing's an accident. I'm not telling you anything new. I suppose it's clear to you, too, I suppose they were trying, I apologize, I've timed out, I'm finishing up, I'm pressing Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic to apply much stricter rules of the Rules of Procedure, to throw us out, punish us, etc. I'm sure you won't get caught up in such a cheap trick, and we as SRS MPs will try not to bring the president of the assembly into such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3666	Thank you. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the proposal for a law on foreigners and a bill on the protection of the state border. Does the first Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3667	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since I've been in Parliament for many years, as you know, I absolutely don't mind this kind of debate, I can even say that I miss him a little bit. In any case, controversy is necessary if, of course, they are kept in the domain of everything we're talking about today, and I am prepared to explain here, as a representative of the promoters, these two laws that our ministry has proposed, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's about the law on the protection of the state border and the law on foreigners. I'd like to remind you that the laws that regulate these two areas were passed back in 1979 and 1980. In the area of control, crossing and security of the state border, the 1974 Law on the crossing of state borders and movement in the 1979 border belt is currently in force, which was made according to the 1974 constitutional concept of the former SFRY. The EU's accession to Serbia is a strategic definition and national interest, which includes, among other things, the adoption of European standards across the whole range of areas, including areas of protection of the state border. I would also like to remind myself that these two laws in a group of laws that are necessary to be adopted in the National Assembly, in order for the Republic of Serbia to reach that path towards a white Schengen list, i.e. to lift visas for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The basic objectives and the paper in this bill are reflected in the following. The objectives of the protection of the state border are to protect the integrity of the state border, prevent the spread of cross-border crime, protect human health and life and protect the environment, prevent illegal crossover of state borders and illegal migration. The bill has taken over all state border security operations from the military, fulfilling yet another reform goal in the process of approaching the EU, which is demilitarisation of the state border. The proposal for a law on the protection of the state border has given up a special regime, in particular with regard to the construction of buildings and the cultivation of certain agricultural cultures, for reasons of ensuring visibility of the border line and other security reasons. State border protection operations shall be carried out directly by border police, as an integral part of the MUP, in accordance with the jurisdiction laid down in this law. When performing these activities, border police officers shall apply specific police powers and measures detailed in the provisions of this law. The text of this law was drawn up, among other things, in line with EU standards and recommendations, and together with this other law on foreigners is one of the last steps towards the white Schengen list, i.e. to abolish the visa regime for citizens of the Republic of Serbia travelling to EU countries. The government has already adopted a strategy for integrated border management in the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the co-operation of all state authorities in carrying out state border protection operations and envisioned priorities in the adoption of rules in this area. The key law on the realisation of the strategic objectives of the Republic of Serbia on state border management is this law, which is the law on the protection of the state border. The bill meets the assumptions for achieving the most important principles and integrated border management, which is an open border for free movement of people and goods and a closed border for all types of criminal and other illicit activities. This bill provides for an effective system of security of the state border, a high standard of border control and ensuring that all state authorities at the state border are treated in a harmonised manner. The draft law also lays down the procedure by which international border co-operation and rules for the handling of competent authorities within the framework of the cooperation. The importance of this law is that Serbia, by adopting it, fulfils the obligation to comply with existing rules in this area with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As for the second law, the law on foreigners, the applicable Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners was passed in 1980. So far, this law has been updated on several occasions, but its changes and additions have not essentially changed the concept of the law. The basic solutions of this law have long been overcome and are in conflict with European legislation and practice. By adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia will for the first time, in accordance with its constitution, independently regulate the issues of entry, movement and residence of foreigners on its territory. This law distinguishes the jurisdiction of certain ministries, MUPs, foreign affairs and other state bodies when it comes to foreigners. At the same time, solutions are compatible with standards that, according to key provisions of the Schengen Agreement, regulate the problem of entry, movement and residence of foreigners in EU countries. Bringing new legislation on foreigners is also one of the legal assumptions for putting the Republic of Serbia on the white Schengen list. This is why the Schengen Agreement and the Convention on the Application of this Agreement are fully respected in the preparation of this law. The bill introduces a series of newspapers. The papers in this bill are types of visas, and this is an airport, transit visa - visa A, transit visa - visa B, short stay visa - visa C and visa for temporary stay - visa D. It is also specified that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, with the agreement of the Minister of Interior, will prescribe the appearance, content and way of entering visas into foreign travel documents. Exceptionally, for humanitarian reasons, if it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia or if it is imposed by internationally accepted obligations, the visa may also be issued at the border crossing, and the MUP may decide to allow a stranger to enter only at a certain crossing point. The bill lays down conditions for the entry and stay of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia, with or without a visa, for up to 90 days. Underlaws, adopted by several ministries, will more precisely regulate certain conditions for entry into the Republic of Serbia, the amount of funds for maintenance, health conditions, security checks, etc. The law also contains several exceptions, when a foreigner will be temporarily banned from leaving the country. Conditions are also prescribed for obtaining a temporary stay based on work and employment, education, specialisation, educational or scientific co-operation, family integration or the characteristics of the victims of human trafficking, as well as conditions for the approval of a permanent stay in the Republic of Serbia. The temporary stay may be approved for up to one year and may be extended to the same period, and an international contract may also be set for a longer period of time. Very strict sanctions against carriers bringing foreigners into the Republic of Serbia without a valid travel document or without a visa are provided. Measures are also foreseen to limit the movement of foreigners, in line with a decision by the competent state authority, to be removed from Serbia's territory. Judicial protection is foreseen against solutions that are to be deported to a foreign shelter under enhanced police supervision. The appeal is decided by the district court in an emergency procedure. The law establishes a central database run by the MUP and makes up all the records of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs conducted under this law. Due to complex and large-scale preparations involving changes provided for by this law and the state border law, the start of application of this law on foreigners is scheduled for 1 April 2009. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the path of the Republic of Serbia towards the EU is practically double: one of the political issues of gaining EU candidate status is the question of defrosting the Transition Agreement, a question that sometimes depends not only on Serbia, but on political relations in Europe, depending on The Hague tribunal, Ratko Mladic, etc. But there's a second question and a second one, and that's gaining and getting visa liberalisation. We don't need anyone else to do that but us. That is why it is necessary to pass all the laws in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that are a condition for obtaining that status, to be on the white Schengen list. To translate into Serbian, Serbian citizens can travel to EU countries without visas. The M.O.P., if you bring in and pass these laws, it's done its part of the job. It is the Justice Ministry's turn, and of course the Serbian government also brings in some other strategies and I think, if it continues at such a pace, that citizens of the Republic of Serbia might expect visa liberalisation next year. It also means that Serbian citizens should slowly start taking new personal documents, because visa liberalisation will apply only to citizens travelling with new passports. And therefore, as I am sure that the question of KIM is a matter of importance for all citizens and all political parties, and as I am sure that all political parties in Serbia are looking forward to Serbia's great diplomatic victory, at least yesterday at the UN General Assembly, I am sure that all the political parties in this parliament, when it comes to these issues, feel the same way. And that is that, regardless of the political differences, independent of our political poles, we do what is in our power to ensure that citizens of Serbia can travel to EU countries without Schengen visas. In order for that to happen, it is necessary to adopt these two draft laws ahead of you in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, whether you belong to the ruling or opposition political parties, when it comes to these laws, which mean harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation, in order to allow better conditions for the lives of our people, such as visa-free travel to the countries of the European Union, I call on you to have a unique position on this, and I am sure that these laws will be adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3668	I thank Mr. Minister, who, as usual, spoke of very serious and complex topics extremely simply and made it easier for both MPs and citizens to understand the importance of today's session and today's agenda. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3669	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 98. Please, given that the extraordinary session of the Finance Committee is currently under way, that all the heads of the parliamentary groups are at that session, as well as most MPs, to exercise your right and that today we have a break from 14.00 to 15.00 from 12.00 to 13.00, so that all interested MPs can attend the committee. This is also the reason, among other things, for us to be able to participate in this debate, and also for the session of this committee, given that the time is scheduled for the session to be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3670	I have assessed your proposal, and because it seems to me that interrupting the session of the Assembly, in order to attend all the Committee on Finance, would primarily be a precedent, and it might happen that this could be understood as a contribution to the creation of panic, I am not prepared to implement this proposal, but it does not bother that all those who have the right to speak on this point are taking advantage of this right while the point is going on. So no one will be denied the right to participate in the work until the end of the act, including the heads of parliament. Mr. Buha, as the author of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. Here you go. That's the 20-minute period you're entitled to.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3671	National MPs, to correct the President of the Assembly, the authorised representative, the promoter had a word, expressed very concisely, simply what concerns these two legislative projects. From the point of view of the Serbian Radical Party, we support all government activities in terms of visa liberalisation and, immediately, to take a critical look at all the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia who have 'disputed' to the Serbian Radical Party for blocking parliament and that is why we did not enter the White Schengen list. I'll explain later what the government needed, not today, not this year, but far, far earlier to make it from the gray on the white Schengen list. It is two legal projects that are one of the conditions, but in a legal sense these two legal projects are necessary to move from gray to white Schengen. They are in this parliament today and with the support of the current authorities it will be safe to bring. The Serbian Radical Party is not resisting these legal projects, but is critical of everything you should have done far, far earlier. What were you supposed to do? With the government's action plan on harmonising the legal rules of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union rules adopted in 2004, all state authorities had to take action in terms of innovating legislation, make proposals, and this assembly had to adopt these proposals in the period from 2004 to 2004. Within four and a half years of the importance of this action plan, which has been committed by all state authorities, we have had only 70 legislative projects that have entered the assembly procedure and have been adopted. Under the action plan, there are 65,000 regulations that are necessary to bring and bring into line with the European Union's legal system, of which 4,000 legislative projects. I see the interference between the secretaries and the minister, yes, these are the data given by Deputy Prime Minister Djelic, the Office for Joining the European Union, meaning 65,000 regulations, 4,000 laws. Since 2004, we've passed about 300 laws in this house, which means 75 a year. If we go at this pace, it will take 55 years to bring the legal system of the Republic of Serbia into line with European Union legislation. The 65,000, it's illusory to talk about, it takes centuries and centuries to bring it together. If we speed up every day what's a normal practice, it'll take us 20 years to get along. It seems to fit that Cobel plan, or Cobel's statement, for some 25 years, the EU's accession. In any case, the government must work far more actively to develop legal projects. The ministry and all other state authorities must also be the government service and service of this assembly, if we are to take this business seriously in terms of joining the European Union. The practice that we have from our neighbouring countries, in Bulgaria, because of the times that have been passed by legal projects in English, they have not been able to translate them. In Slovenia, they passed 120 laws a day. Don't let it, it refers to the current government, to come into such a situation that we adopt a dozen, 20 or 50, or don't give God 120 legal projects, as Slovenia did. Furthermore, we must warn the current government that nothing is doing in the sense of harmonising legal projects under constitutional law. Article 15 provides for a deadline for compliance with the provisions of the Constitution, 31. 12. No law has brought this house into line. Now, look how much we appreciate the Constitution, we all have a mouthful of justice, justice, constitutionality and legality, and the most basic provision and obligation provided for by the Constitution and by the Constitutional Law, unfortunately, we do not agree and do not make this obligation work. Then, the state authorities must act much faster if we are to seriously approach all activities towards joining the European Union. Their organisation, their system of work, their attitude to work, technical and technological equipment, the education of workers, the education of the administration is very low. Our work structure has been in the government for over 50 years. It's something to worry about. Only young, educated people can handle these jobs. At the age of 50 and over, with incomplete material and technical preparation, technical assistance, we cannot be an equal member of the EU or in other areas. We need young personnel, educated personnel, serious programs, a serious strategy we have, but we don't apply it. We have a national strategy for joining the EU, but not even 10 per cent of what we have drawn we haven't even started to do, which is the most important thing. We'll be running for office tomorrow. From what we have signed for EU candidacy, from the legal projects we should have already passed, it is a 51 legislative project, we have adopted only two in this House. The Ministry of the Interior was the most pressing, the most agile, the fastest. We adopted two projects, the Law on Travel Documents and the Law on Asylum, more foreign law and on the protection of the state border, and they circled their continent. What about the other ministries? We must, according to the provisions of the National Accession Strategy, go far deeper into the essence of legal projects relating not only to visa liberalisation, but also to all domestic law projects, around the judiciary, in the area of human environment protection. Anti-corruption laws are only partially represented here. We had some legal projects yesterday, but it's only a small percentage of what we have to adopt. I don't think the current government is doing everything in all of this. You are full of the EU's mouth, accession, but we are not really doing everything we can to adapt the constitutional legal system of the Republic of Serbia and direct it towards the EU. You said it's a country's definition, there's a certain consensus being reached and you have to adapt and move in that direction. As far as the legal project itself is concerned, I will look back only in a few sentences about the foreign law. My remark is heading towards certain issues concerning refugees, which had to be inserted into the article. The 2nd legislative project, so we went with the amendments, to install ourselves to separate refugees from this law and from the travel documents for refugees, and also to define the concept of strangers. So, the refugee is a foreigner until he gets Serbian citizenship. You're only going to asylums here, but you're not on refugees, so that's one suggestion to fit in, please, when you discuss. Now I'm going to say why it's important to install it, because that's what this is all about. We in the Yugoslavia area, today Serbia have over 500,000 refugees, 550-560 refugees from Republika Srpska and we have about 250 registered refugees from the Republic of BiH and other countries, former Yugoslav states, who have received certain papers and documents and have received refugee status. The Commissioner for Refugees, resolving refugee issues, acted under the provisions of the Refugees Act. The Refugees Act was passed in 90-91, it was only introduced once and it is now almost out of service. Refugees were deprived of refugee status under the Refugees Act which is contrary to the Refugee Status Convention and today we have 97,000 refugees registered, but we have one vacuum that needs to be filled out. Citizens who have been expelled, who have escaped from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia have come to these premises, have received that status, have been taken away from them and are now in one vacuum because they cannot get Serbian citizenship. The state authorities, I was saying and stressing in the Law on the Travel document, the Law on Citizenship, I can't get all those documents that the authorities are looking for, we were even with the secretary of the Ministry and we pointed to these problems. The problems are still acute and they are not solved. We today have one hundred thousand refugees with the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, former citizenship, and then by no legal act by the SRJ, the Republic of Serbia has taken that citizenship away. They're out of citizenship today, they're out of ID today. Under the provisions of this law, they are strangers. If we strictly apply the provisions of this law, we must extradite them to another country. Which country? In Croatia. They immediately fall under Croatian laws, will be arrested, will be brought in, will be heard, etc. This country must think about it and this issue must be resolved, along with this legislative project of foreign law you must run, Minister Dacic, the issue of innovating the Refugees Act, because it is necessary. Then you'll make one legal continent that will solve this issue. We must not put citizens of Serbia who have been expelled, who have lost all their property, all of their property rights in a position to be detained tomorrow by a state body and by the MUP, hears, punishes because they have no documents, have no valid documents. I can't, I say I can't get them on the basis of legislation that addresses the issue of Serbian citizenship, travel documents and now I'm talking about the Law on Refugees and Foreign Law. Take this seriously. You've finished your share. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but at the government level you must resolve the status of these people. Code. In 59, also a certain suggestion that you do not resolve the issue of refugee travel documents in the law because there are almost no letters of refugees, there is no need then to resolve the issue of travel documents by the refugee law. Do it by innovating this legal project. When we talk about formal meaning, the law is good, the law will be applicable, the law has accepted all European and modern trends in this area and this full support, along with this suggestion to inspect the Law of Refugees, to help the refugee population that now counts one, per se, 100-120 thousand, which are undefined status both in terms of citizenship and travel documents, but also in terms of property and everything that is necessary to every man in terms of achieving their rights in Croatia here and crossing the state border there and here. If they do not now and cannot get the documents, they are threatened because they cannot leave or regulate their property, social status in the Republic of Croatia. They're prisoners of this country, and it's not a small population. Here, these are the suggestions I had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3672	Thank you, Mr. Buha. Does any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups come forward since I wasn't informed that he has a representative? Then we move on to the schedule of the Members of Parliament who have been declared for a word in the joint principled search. MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, Mr. Minister, the proposal for a law on foreigners is a major improvement compared to the existing law. It's not a big success, though, since the law of the '80s is changing. In most of its provisions, the law is prepared in line with the solutions that exist in Europe, with certain shortcomings that we from the LDP will talk about when we talk about amendments. In several places, the promoter took care of particularly sensitive groups. The law contains specific provisions on the protection of persons who are being persecuted in another country for their properties or beliefs. The law is standardised by regulations of other transition countries, when it comes to visa regimes, visa types and technical rules. In this regard, we see progress and benefits from the integration process that we have been leading for eight years. The LDP welcomes the efforts of experts working on this law and is willing to accept the assistance of international organisations and bodies. The vast majority of the provisions respect the requirements of the international agreements that we have signed and which we will accept in the near future. However, there is also what we could do more than make simple, minimum demands. The law would have to show Serbia's new openness, its willingness to attract foreigners, whether they are guests or come to work here. Some countries in the process of European transition and European integration are dropping the job. The LDP wants Serbia to deal with the status of a successful example of change whenever it can through its reforms. Therefore, in the sense of the need for the law on foreigners to be adopted immediately, it is useful in terms of harmonisation of technical standards, terminology and procedures with rules applicable in the Union and candidate countries. For LDP, there is no dispute that needs to be done. That is why we will vote for the adoption of the law, but we hope and insist on adopting several very significant amendments that we have submitted. Two of the biggest shortcomings are contained in the proposal for a law on foreigners. These defects are contained in Art. 75th and 76th. It's a bill of law. They concern the obligation to report stays and the conditions for the collection of data on foreigners. These two members show that we sometimes find it even more difficult to free ourselves from a kind of cold war approach to the issue of entry, residence and work of foreigners in Serbia's territory. Also, LDP MPs will vote for a law on the protection of the state border. We remind MPs from the ruling coalition, especially DS, that we agreed in mid-July on a strategic partnership on European integration affairs. For us in the LDP, it's not a formulation to cover up our vote for the government's proposals. We thought, we clearly said, that we intend to analyse every proposal and law, that it is good to do it together, to find better solutions and before the law comes to committee and parliament sessions, to avoid the classical relationship of the ruling majority and the opposition. It's not all about the amendments. It doesn't matter to us how the government responds to the proposals. It is now October 2008, there is no more general story on European integration. We are facing the years of daily writing, discussion, improvement of laws, negotiations and compromises. The LDP does not want there to be an uninterested talker and voting machine on the side of the government. We intend to lead the next government, but we would not like it to inherit the problems Serbia has today. Therefore, if you've divided the quotas, if you're close to sharing influences in public enterprises, if you've overcome the enthusiasm of cosmetic changes on the right hand, I suggest we start to do something concrete.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3674	National MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3675	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, I am sorry that so few MPs are present in the O.R. at this time. On the other hand, I don't blame my colleagues, that citizens who watch this transmission don't think MPs are inconclusive and that for some private reasons they are not present at the session are present at the meeting of the Finance Committee. In the context of a united debate by point. I want to talk, first of all, about the Bill on the Protection of the State Border. You can see how the themes are over us, how they're connected. I think it was a good proposal from the Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs Popovic, to attend all the meetings of the Finance Committee and to make it a direct transfer. The panic you mentioned, Madam President, would only prevent the timely information of the most responsible people in charge of the information. The proposal for a law on the protection of the state border, i.e. the early adoption of this law is one of the preconditions, as we say in the jargon, the liberalisation of the movement of our citizens, i.e. they no longer have to wait in line with the embassies, primarily Western countries. You know, it's all connected. What do the citizens want with visas if they don't have money? That's why I think today was important for us all to be there, and for the heads of Parliament. I understood the concerns, especially of opposition parties, as a genuine concern for what is happening in the world of economics and in this crisis that is coming to our country as well. As far as the proposal for a law on the protection of the state border is concerned, I must say that he was in the congregation procedure in the past, and, by some unwritten rule, when the new government comes, you know, there were elections, that law has been withdrawn, and it seems to me to be in almost the same or similar text and now in front of us on the agenda. As for New Serbia's MPs, whose name I speak, depending on the course of the debate in principle and on the course of the debate on amendments, above all on the ones I submitted on behalf of New Serbia, we will declare ourselves on this law in the day of the vote. Now, as we can say in principle, it's that this law is very precise, that it's one of the so-called. Legal-technical laws, where there are no policies, although we could ask some questions that the minister should answer, by saying in advance that if there are no answers to the following questions, I don't consider him responsible. So these are some of the following questions: will we, under this law, protect the border towards Macedonia and Albania? Should it have been in the law to say that this law against the borders towards these countries will apply when we can or when the world powers and the powers that occupied our southern province allow it? I would now like to say one personal note, since for the first time a colleague of Dacic, I now have a minister, in front of me, it seems to me that I will have the honour to have one of the amendments that I have proposed he accepts and thus enable the MPs of the NS to vote more happily in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3676	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3677	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of the law that should at the moment push or travel the way of European integration, which are currently in the assembly procedure, three regulations, I would say, are a direct prerequisite for the visa waiver of our citizens. These are legal proposals on the protection of personal data, as well as two legislative proposals we are talking about, on the protection of the state border and the proposal for a law on foreigners. Of course, it should again be stressed that putting Serbia on that list depends on meeting the road map for visa liberalisation, but also on the political assessment of each EU Member State based not only on whether the necessary laws exist, but also on whether they are applied in practice. It is true that concrete deadlines for putting Serbia on the white Schengen list do not exist, but as MPs, therefore, as someone with responsibility, especially for the citizens of Serbia, when we are talking about this topic should we bear in mind whether at least from next year, Serbian citizens will avoid the collection of extensive documentation and order in front of foreign embassies? It is very important by the start of November to adopt a set of European laws that have been established so far in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we will certainly improve Serbia's image in this way when it comes to progress in the European integration process. So, according to a set of laws we are talking about right now, it depends on whether our country will soon receive EU candidate status, and whether visas for travel to EU countries will be lifted within the next year. As for the draft law on the state border and the law on foreigners, it should be said that the proposals for a law of multiple importance, particularly for national security and, of course, the approximation of Serbia to the white Schengen list. The multiple importance of these laws and these acts is reflected in the construction, above all, of Serbia's modern legal framework and of improving the rule of law and overall national security. Because of its complexity, it is already said, both draft laws should start to apply from April 1st next year. Otherwise, they are made according to high world standards, i.e. both draft laws are in line with EU standards. The proposal for a law on the protection of the state border meets the most important principles of the so-called so-called, which is already said for this speaker, so-called. integrated border management. This actually means an open border for free flow of people and goods and a closed border for all types of criminal and other types of illegal activity. In the area of control, and that is true, the crossing and security of the state border, the 1974 SFRJ constitutional concept is currently in force. It is true that Serbia's strategic definition is the EU, and that, among other things, means accepting adopted European values and standards throughout the whole range of areas, including in the area of protection of the state border. This legal act includes a number of newspapers that will allow for more efficient implementation, a high standard of border control and rapid co-operation of all state authorities. It is evident that the government has sought to facilitate the free flow of people and economic activities. It is also already said, but I believe that once again, the basic objectives of the protection of the state border are: protection of the integrity of the state border, prevention of the spread of cross-border crime, protection of human health and life and protection of the environment, as well as the prevention of illegal crossover of state borders and illegal migration. This bill has taken over all state border security operations from the military and has met yet another reform goal in the process of approaching the EU, which is demilitarisation of the state border, which is also of paramount importance. Also, this bill gives up the border line institutes that extend along the entire state border and provides for only the possibility to allow for specific parts of the border to be made available by the Minister and to introduce a special regime, above all, with regard to the construction of facilities and the cultivation of certain agricultural cultures for the purpose of ensuring the visibility of the line or for other security reasons. On the other hand, when it comes to the proposal for a law on foreigners, by adopting this bill, Serbia will for the first time regulate the issue of entry and movement and residence of foreign citizens on its own. This legal act introduces a visa system which is in line with European standards in four categories. It is already said that the issue of an airport transit visa, visa A, transit visas, visa B, visa for shorter stay, visa C and visas for temporary stay, visa D. Also, this legal act lays down the conditions for the entry and stay of foreigners in Serbia, with or without a visa of 90 days, as well as the conditions for obtaining a temporary stay. It is a very important paper on the law and that the government can decide for the citizens of a particular country that they can enter the Republic of Serbia and with a valid ID card, or another ID card, based on which identity or citizenship can be established. This will certainly create legal assumptions for further improving bilateral relations with friendly countries, and, of course, once again, we are convinced that there will be a significant simplification in the future regarding the travel of our citizens to other countries. At the very end, I would like to point out once again that the application of these two laws will also have a significant impact on reducing the risk of illegal migration and cross-border crime, and I also repeat, they are one of the most significant steps towards abolishing the Schengen list and visas for our citizens. Of course, due to the above, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of both draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3678	Thank you. The word is by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. He's not here. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3679	The Honored Presidencies, the Honored Presidencies, Minister Ivica Dacic, the Honored Coles of the Messengers, I hope you won't mind me speaking Russian, this language has not been heard of this payphone, so I had only that intention. LSV MPs will support both of these laws, as their adoption is necessary in order to meet the requirements of the White Schengen List. The Republic of Serbia protects and controls its borders according to a model that is exceeded and outdated and does not fully contribute to achieving the objectives that modern border management systems need to provide. LSV MPs will support this law, above all, because it creates an open border for free flow of people and goods, and closes the border for all types of criminal and other illicit activities. As far as foreign law is concerned, LSV MPs feel that this law is necessary, given the circumstances that the applicable law in this area was passed in 1980 and in a country that long ago does not exist. By passing a new law is one of the assumptions that our country needs to meet in order to integrate into European integration. The government has decided to maintain in the proposal for a law on foreigners the obligation of immediate reporting of foreign nationals in our territory, which may be unacceptable, but I would point out that similar provisions have other countries, so I can name Austria and Germany. The SFRJ law is still in force in Slovenia, and there are even more restrictive provisions in Croatia compared to this bill. Therefore, LSV MPs fully support this bill, because it is a step closer to the visa-free regime and a step more towards European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3680	The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, reporting in accordance with Article 239. The Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament. Since the Committee on Foreign Affairs was called at 13.00 hours, I would like to draw your attention that the Committee should establish the composition of permanent delegations held by this Parliament. I draw your attention to Article 239 of the amendment and the addition of this Rules of Procedure, which states - a proposal for a decision drawn up by permanent delegations under Article 1 of this Article is submitted by the President of the National Assembly, in consultation with the presidents of parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. I warn you, I call on all parties in the Serbian Parliament to make sure they do not violate the Rules of Procedure. The matter here is quite clear, as the Finance Act says funds from the budget are being received by political parties who have won a number of mandates and do not accept any subsequent withdrawal of mandates or any other machinations. These had opportunities from the SPO in the previous meeting when a number of their MPs left, they continued to receive budget funds based on the number of MPs who won the elections. I draw your attention here that the composition of permanent delegations can only be from parties participating in the elections. I know that the yellow company is responding to chaos -- it's quite clear to us, and to the citizens of Serbia, and that your goal is to create chaos. But this brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure really won't make sense, and we will only disable them if the other parties in parliament stick to the letters of the Rules of Procedure. We can't reward thieves. It's simply something that stems from every law, not to mention the basic thing, the morality -- that you should not, at any moment, interfere with the mind that every violation of the law and the Rules of Procedure produces problems that will multiply and that will come back to everyone as a boomerang. That is why, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, as speaker of parliament, I call on you to make sure that this Rules of Procedure is not violated, because when all this is over they will transfer all responsibility to you, they will pretend to be ignorant, but they will say that he was obliged to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3682	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Martinovic also has the word. So, today at three o'clock, we'll have a meeting with the heads of Parliament on a definite deal. You know we've talked about quotas here on several occasions, but today we'll definitely agree on a three-hour proposal that I'm going to make to the Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer to the discussion of the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, and to draw attention to you too, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, as well as to the MPs and citizens of Serbia -- that a number of citizens who do not belong to any political party sit in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They were excluded from the SRS, although they were selected on the SRS list for MPs, and some new political party they allegedly belong to has not yet been formed and is not registered in the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government registry. As president of the National Assembly, you shouldn't tolerate it. To this you are bound by a large number of provisions of this Rules of Procedure, including this cited Article 239, which says that the motion for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations will be determined by the President of the National Assembly, in consultation with the presidents of parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. The political party, which you have allowed to be called SNS here for short term, does not exist, is not registered in the register, has no statute, there is no authorised person who can represent the party in public and in political relations. I also draw attention to Article 55, which is actually a general framework for what the Rules of Procedure reads: "The freedom of political, trade union and each other's association is guaranteed and the right to remain outside each association. Associations shall be established without prior authorisation, subject to registration in a register run by a state body in accordance with the law. Secret and paramilitary associations are forbidden. "We here have an alleged political organisation that has created the opposite of the Constitution and the law. The first members of the new political party were actually elected MPs on the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj election list. It is unrecorded in the democratic world that the parties are thus being made, that their first members be the MPs of another political party, whose electoral lists were elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I draw your attention again and point out that what Mr. Dragan Todorovic told you is completely standing. So the Democratic Party will completely get out of this whole situation. They will say -- well, we're not getting involved, the president of the National Assembly has allowed some parliamentary group that is illegally formed, to form a political party in the Serbian Parliament that is not included in the register. You have practically legalized the use of some kind of abbreviations, which doesn't mean anything, and I really draw your attention to introducing the work of the Serbian Parliament into legal frameworks, respecting the Constitution, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Law on Political Organizations, and of course... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The Rules of Procedure, which obliges you to draw up delegations, permanent delegations of the National Assembly, in proportion to the number of representatives... (President: Mr. Martinovic wants you to bring an end, because you've been talking for a minute longer. )......................................................................................................... which have political parties in the National Assembly. Serbia's advanced parties are neither in the Serbian Parliament, nor in the registry of the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3684	You're talking content that you've already said on several occasions, you know? He doesn't want a word. He gave up? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must say that I am pleased that you are here today, but not because of some personal relations, you and I, but simply because of the nature of the work that you do. I suppose you've been notified of this before, but here I am now officially doing it -- it's well-founded, I speak on purpose so as to be a lawyer, that there is a small group that stole the electoral will of the Serbian citizens. In any case, I don't recommend using rubber bullets, you've already got rid of it, but there's something going on in your hands, so here you go, use it. They did, because they cheated, deceived a large number of Serbian citizens. That's what I was afraid of -- is it going to be you, not because you're not coming, but what's been happening lately to be one authorized representative, I assume you're objectively replaced by someone else? Now consider that I have officially reported you and that you should do so now. When it comes to the laws that are on the agenda today, I must say that the Bill on the Protection of the State Borders of the SRS Group has been eager to wait when this bill of law will be on the agenda, because I am not sure that everyone, perhaps some who sits in this room, and especially those who are involved in politics or who represent the political elite, as one of the fellow Members of Parliament likes to say, knows at all where our borders are. When we leave our country, we have an emotional relationship to the border. After returning to the state of Serbia, we look forward to entering and therefore feel that this Law on the Protection of the State Border should find its rightful place in this parliament, to discuss it. It's not good what you're saying in your explanation -- that we're now applying the Law on crossing the state border and moving in the border belt, which is based on the 1974 Constitution -- but that's true. Circumstances have changed, and that is why we need now to have a brand new law, because there is a country that firmly pressures the oxygen hose for Serbia, to choke the citizens of Serbia, and Serbia itself whose constitution is many, many years old, so it is not a problem, but the changed circumstances that occurred in the state of Serbia have led to the need to pass a new law on the protection of state borders. When it comes to harmonising the rules of the Serbian state with the Member States of the European Union, we should try to adapt and harmonise our regulations, not only to the Member States of the European Union, but also to all other countries, respecting the needs and specificities of our country, not because they are members of the European Union. We also have several principled objections when it comes to this law on the protection of the state border. You, as a MP, know that the SRS parliamentary group has pointed out in principle, and here in one ten or 12 even members of this law are mentioned -- that certain regulations, orders, instructions, the minister responsible for internal affairs will be brought in. We think it should be the Ministry of Internal Affairs who will regulate it. To remind you that, in certain provisions of this law, you have accepted it, for example in Article 18(3) and (4), as well as in Article 19(2), where you say that the ministry of certain things, that I would now not return and take time, you will see, I assume that Mr. Todorovic, the secretary of the MUP, will record it or personally you, so that you have that in mind when we talk about it. There is another situation on the Legislative Committee, just the secretary of the ministry, which was co-operated with by the Ministry of Interior in drafting this proposal, he said he was working with the Ministry of Finance because of the customs administration, which also appears at border crossings, as someone who controls and integrates the crossing and protection of state borders. It seems to me that there has been no co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture here, and I am thinking of a hunting association or perhaps a association of fishermen, given that there are tourist manifestations that have entered the calendar of Serbia, so that this could be adequately prepared and where the law would allow such manifestations to be maintained without any problems. And one of them is a Drina regatta, you remember, a beautiful, magnificent event, where you were on one occasion, I apologize for this little privacy. It would be necessary for you to co-operate with that ministry, as you are calling in one member that they must report within a certain period of maintenance of these events. It seems to me that this part of the issue in this law, which will cease to apply after the law on the protection of the state border, has been better and better resolved. We also have an objection to Article 26(2), where it is said that the persons of Article 1 of this article, therefore, the person crossing the state border, should provide all notifications to the official person. He thinks of it as a police officer at the border crossing. We feel that all the necessary information is needed, not all the notifications, because sometimes all the notifications can be unpleasant for those crossing the state border, and they have nothing to do with the security that should be at the time of the crossing. Then, when the situation arises to examine vehicles of persons crossing the border, at the request of the party, a certificate shall be issued. We believe that, if the vehicle has already been examined, or even the separation of the vehicle, whether or not the party wishes to, that the certificate of that review should be issued for each party. There is one thing I believe will not be a worthy minister of the MUP, which is that Minister of the Ministry of Interior in a particular area determines what will be sown in a certain year. I don't think that's good, especially where you say it is, that it stands, that it will bring a minister in a certain period of time such a regulation that regulates it, that it shouldn't stand. I mean, there is protection of the state border, which is very important. From the point of view of the SRS is one of the most important issues and should allow everything to be organised in the best way, but persons who own their land directly along the state border, if they are given some regulation that limits any agricultural or other culture will be planted, then it should be in addition to compensation, not without compensation, as you predicted. In case you accept the amendments submitted by the SRS to these two laws, our relationship with these laws will depend on it, but in any case we want the protection of the state border of Serbia to be implemented in the best possible way and we do not want it, as DOS said in 2000 that the KIM problem is a democratic problem, and it stands until 2008 and is not resolved. You promised, don't make such optimistic statements -- once these laws are passed, then we won't have any problems with visas. That's not controversial. I count that after the adoption of these laws, it will be so, but in order for our citizens to travel without visas to meet many other conditions. We need to ensure a better and more normal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3686	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Suleiman Spaho called.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Madam President, I ask you to explain why, after all this time in the Serbian Parliament, no committee on national minorities has been established. It's one of the important committees, and the reason is that on several occasions, right now I've been contacted by a family from Alexinac who needs to tear down the house in two or three days, where they've been for 25 years. It is about the Roma family, so it would probably be as soon as this committee is formed and that we can make these remarks to citizens who are other nationalities and religions, and not through the Assembly and this way to address you according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to do it as soon as possible, I know you're, uh, rudely speaking, in political trouble, but it's already time for that board to be built and to start working.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3688	I appreciate the question. In the draft agenda of this session, item 14 - Proposals for a decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly board is the point where we will address this fully-founded issue. Mrs. Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3689	Mr. Minister, the LDP generally commends these two laws. We'll vote for those laws. We have some very important remarks that we would ask you to adopt, if possible. The observations refer to the law when it comes to the proposal for a law on foreigners, and this applies to the Article. 75th and 76th. You see, according to Article 75's solution, when entering a foreign country, it means, if it stays longer than 24 hours, it has to apply immediately, within 12 hours, to the police station. And the person he moved to, he also has to report his stay within 12 hours if he's visiting, and anywhere he has to check in alone. We've come to the conclusion, and I have to tell you, I've been living for a very long time, and that's one cold-war op, that every stranger and friend if they come running to the police station right now to report it. I don't think that solution really fits our current circumstances, like a country that wants to be open, where we expect investors, where we expect tourists, where we want people to come to our country, to leave money here. So, it's not in accordance with the spirit of time at all with a provision prescribed by the old law, and I believe it was introduced in 45 years, because then it was, and if you were at sea, if you said goodbye to strangers and talked to them, you had to report right away that you were talking to a stranger. You know, these xenophobic and these kinds of provisions really don't look like the time we live in anymore. We asked for this article to be deleted on the 75th. We've even tried, Mr. Minister, to ask ourselves how Julie Mostov, who is now in the new law, which is usually made very modern, where such a provision comes from now in October, I have a friend, Julie Mostov, who speaks perfectly Serbian, is an American woman who comes to our country for 30 years, now coming to visit the Faculty of Political Sciences, where she's also mastered us, as soon as she comes to visit me, I have to go to report to her that she came to the country, which she usually comes to for 30 years. Besides, you're saying here that it's possible by electronic means to make it easier for us, but believe me, it's not easy to do it by electronic means either. What if someone goes to Lebanese, what kind of electronics? It's not possible to do it electronically. Please make this member deleted, in addition, even the documentation for reporting foreign nationals is a very large technical issue. I don't have anything on me, I don't have anything. I'm private, in my apartment. I live as a protected tenant, I have nothing to report her on, I thought this law would end this harassment, and then there's the punishment that if I didn't report this woman coming, 25,000.00 is a punishment, and believe me, I've never done that before, it's been legal until now. Please release us from these illogical legal provisions. We've been asking questions within our parliamentary group, why this proposal even happened, I'm talking about article 75, please take this seriously and read it. Why did that happen? I heard that although our country, although Macedonia, Albania, Croatia, all have those mechanisms, that when a stranger enters, and for us and for everyone, you can miss it through the passport and record the entry of a stranger into the country. He says we didn't buy that machine. And now you've burdened all of us citizens and these strangers to run within 12 hours to apply. Why didn't you buy that? Buy that machine and free us from these stupid provisions. So, it's really unacceptable, to burden all citizens, because the police don't have the apparatus to miss the passports of those who came in. If it's expensive, so please don't, so you've burdened us, you and your party, you know how much the budget will suffer. Not to mention we heard a giraffe was bought by your coalition partner. Two hundred and fifty-six thousand euros for a giraffe, and for the apparatus to record who enters the country, there is no money for it. Please accept our amendment to abolish this member. Second of all, I have to draw your attention to Article 76, and that's where the alien data collection is being subdued. We agree that when it comes to collecting information about foreigners, it stands to be in accordance with the law and international agreements, but in Article 76, I think the position of 2 or 3, for security reasons, is unspecific. So wait, are we going to do this as a Balkan spy, as soon as a stranger appears for some indefinite reason, to collect data. You've seen when it comes to the protection of personality data that we have Article 45(2) where again for security reasons we have one fence, even the trustee can't do anything about it, he can't even go into the room, and that's where we asked for it to be thrown out. However, the amendment is not accepted, from which I must conclude again - Mrs. Micic spoke yesterday - that we are still a police state. We suggest that it remains, in accordance with the law, the collection of information about foreigners and international contracts, and that a non-specific situation, such as gathering for various security reasons, that such a thing does not confuse us further, that our country be a respectable country, that it be a European country, and that such spy stuff, which you leave by law, be cast out. Please pay attention to article 75 and throw out this provision and free the citizens of this nightmare, that whoever comes to visit, and that may be a Montenegrin now, relatives can be someone's, from Bosnia, Macedonia, they're all now strangers to us, it's all abroad to us now. A friend or cousin from Montenegro comes to me to run within 12 hours to report him to your service. Please, Mr. Dacic, this is a very serious thing, you're burdening the citizens, and that's something that's absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3690	National MP Milan Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. Mr. Minister, you've probably had dues and long talks with the lady, but I'd like to remind you of this opportunity, and irritated by Mrs. Pesic's previous exposure, in the sense that this country is wanted to continue to be able to go on as soon as possible and as anyone can. Please, just one example - the arrest of Karadzic, a Serbian hero, and the way Karadzic was arrested, to mention this, when he was kidnapped and when he was held for three or four days in some room, with a bag on his head, and everything that happened to him was notified to him and heard about it for the last few months. We had a case two or three weeks ago, when a kidnapped Belgrade citizen was taken and held in the basement, I guess it looked like Ratko Mladic or anyone. If it continues on this principle as requested by Mrs Pesic, that this country can do whoever it wants and from where it wants, various foreign agents not registered in the Republic of Serbia, and since I live in Novi Pazar, near Kosovo and Metohija and Montenegro, I can tell you that there are daily illegal crossings of certain people from Montenegro, i.e. Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, unaccounted for in that area, and therefore major crimes, drug trafficking, intoxication, ammunition, weapons and all that is heard daily and read in the daily press. I ask you, on this point, that if we still take into account the length of the border that is gravitating from Kosovo and Metohija to Montenegro, I think from Priboj to Prepolje, Tutina to Novi Pazar, down to Raska and beyond, that length which is not well and sufficiently secure, I ask you to, as police minister and vice president of the government, take all measures to protect the citizens of Serbia and to record those who commit riots, smuggle, commit crime and commit to the state of Serbia. (President: Time) To conclude, not to repeat some kind of kidnapping of some citizen by various spy, intelligence, foreign agents.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3692	The Rules of Procedure are advertised by MP Ivan Andric. Please keep the Rules of Procedure in line with the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3693	It is a replica of the parliamentary group, since our amendment has been misread. So, from our point of view, this observation is completely pointless, because why would you expect someone who illegally crosses the border that because the law states he will self-initiately apply to the police station. Our amendment refers to non-security visits, civilian visits. Each of us has relatives in Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Republika Srpska wherever. We will be obliged to report people and everyday contacts that have existed so far will in some way become compromised. On the other hand, this very spirit that you're talking about, that anyone who doesn't have a Serbian ID card is an enemy to us, that spirit is unacceptable and we refuse to vote for the law if it's the idea of this law. On the other hand, it's quite clear that it's not an idea and that the law has nothing to do with what you were just talking about. We expect, once again, to accept our amendment and to clarify one more thing - we think that there is already enough ground to collect data, so we suggest that the first two parts of that article be retained, point 1 and point 2. Only this third one introduces that category -- in the event of a threat to security, without any further explanation that assesses and in any way assesses where public security is threatened and how public security can be compromised -- is not in accordance with the law. Our amendment applies only to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3694	Thank you. National MP Milan Lapcevic is not here. It's the Rules of Procedure again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3695	The gentleman who spoke misunderstood my presentation and called on the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro to be related. Since it belongs to that party, known as the 1990s, which mainly profited from these NGOs and all that they brought to the Republic, then Yugoslavia, so Serbia, above all, did not make it clear whether this applies to Montenegro, Macedonia, whether it applies to relatives from Republika Srpska. But the lady who spoke before him generally talked about foreigners and compared communist times 80 years ago to the present time, and then there was a second time, a second chance, and she probably remembered that time well. I was talking about the time we're in, at a time when our country's being held by various foreign intelligence agents, who arrest people, or kidnap people. In that direction, I was saying, and we can't compare what you want to liberalize things, in the sense that a stranger can come from anywhere and from where, without reporting the place of residence. Go to a land of your own, so do not report to the police your dwelling, and you will see how much you will pay the punishment. I was just talking that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3696	Thank you. National MP Milan Lapcevic is not in the O.R. National MP Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3697	Dear colleagues, I had the intention to start over to talk about some members of the law, but if we look at the time we spend and the way we use free EPP marketing, I'll see to it that my exposure is short, for the simple reason that this is about the laws that, as we said by our distinguished colleagues from the SRS, we should have adopted our European path sooner, at least that's how I understood Mr. Buh, and that in fact, it's a basic criticism that we haven't already had these laws. In a legal and technical sense, in terms of comparative practice with other countries that had the need to pass this law and comparative practice with countries that have established laws in this way, these laws have practically nothing to give as an observation, no matter how hard we try, we see it also by the quality of the discussions that take place here. We're looking for little marks, we're looking for little angles, where we're going to make some remarks, because, my God, the minister is here, and the cameras are on. I'll only do two things. One was not mentioned, and one was brought up by LDP counterparts as a remark. I think it's much more important how we implement, first of all, this state border control law. I'll just say that very often not only the technical means are missing, some were told by Mrs. Pesic, and the personnel structure is adequate. I must say, in the absence of other laws, such as consumer protection laws, we often have examples of corruption at the border, we often have inadequate control at border crossings, both people and goods. The very fact that we're talking here and changing the laws of the '80s is about the need to pass laws that, not only will they be harmonised, but in practice when they're implemented, they'll have to look different. It is not enough to pass only this law to enter the EU, it is necessary that the implementation of this law, with all that it means at the border crossing, be it goods or people, but even more crime and all that is going on with it, be adequately treated. So, this law is good, everything can always be fixed. Can you do better? It can always be better, but I repeat, by analysing the parallel practice of countries in our environment, the need for synchronisation with the EU, and by analysing the practice of countries that have similar laws, these laws are, in my understanding, actually progress and are more than good. At the end of the line, it will enable our authorities, both the Ministry of State and other authorities, to do their job effectively. Another topic that is often mentioned here in one way or another is the authority of individual organs and services. It's always possible to abuse authority, but I'm afraid it can be... Of course, Mr. Todorovic, you have examples for everyone, as well as a commentary for everyone. I didn't say it was good comments, Mr. Minister, I have an opinion on Mr. Todorovic. You've got a good one, I may not. It is the president, but out of the hall, here is the minister, I have the right to criticise him, we are a democratic party, we don't have to listen like you, it's another story. I like radicals shows, we've got an entire day's SRS program on Channel 2, from 10.00 to 18:00. If I may, Miss Veronica, I'll proceed. So it's also dangerous to complicate our lives with our services and treat them here as some structures that deal with each individual. It often seems to me that it is a fetish of possibilities and procedures by our services directed towards our citizens or perhaps foreigners. Serbia has certain security challenges, they are not only terrorist. We also have internal security issues, we have security issues that are surrounded by the outside, crime and everything else that's going on. I'm afraid we're a little bit, especially by the representatives of some parties, simply hypersensive when it comes to what we need to limit when it comes to services and what we need to give them as jurisdiction. There are certain institutes, the way that listening is approved, the way it can be controlled, internal control in the work of the authorities, and for the people who work in those bodies, it is that through these mechanisms and on us MPs through the relevant committees, and when needed publicly for this speaker, we point to the possible abuse of those powers that the services should have. In that sense, I would ask my LDP colleagues and the rest of us to leave an evaluation of the MIP, which is the proposer of this law, at this stage and at this point in the law, to make things the way professionals are proposing at this point. I wouldn't go any further. In the understanding of the SPS and our partners JS, I suppose I can also say on behalf of the PUPS, this law is good enough, corrects things, opens up space to the competent authorities to deal with these affairs in a good and healthy manner. What I'm going to say as a second, not as a first, because I think of Europe as a system of values, as a system of possibilities, and what I'm saying is like the mechanisms we're going to use. This is also necessary for the synchronisation of European processes, but also for the liberalisation of the visa regime, and, in my understanding of things, I don't plead to abolish anyone's right, the less we deal with the EPP, the sooner we get to the next point of the agenda, it seems to me to be the law on higher and higher education, the sooner we'll help citizens as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3698	Thank you. MP Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3699	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we didn't know that the government, in order to achieve its strategic commitment to the EU, had accepted the obligation to adopt European values and standards in whole, are not an area, and that, as soon as possible, we in the SRS would be surprised at the courage of this government that at a time like this, when no one from the Government can speak to it, even as far as its state is concerned, or as far as its borders, it proposes to the Assembly to adopt such a bill on the protection of the state border. At a time when all possible foreigners who follow us, listen, study, try to educate us in the direction and directions that are their own, the government is proud that a document of the strategy for integrated border management has been adopted, and most importantly, according to a model that is in line with EU standards and recommendations. In the process of approaching the European Union, you have managed to achieve one of your reform goals, which is to demilitarize the border, i.e. to remove the army from it, and thus you have largely devised the existence of the army, because what is the military's priority goal of preserving sovereignty and integrity, i.e. from the preservation of its border. That's why in the last few years you've been working on a systematic destruction of the army, because, for God's sake, the army is under the hat of the European Union, according to you, we won't need it. Whenever a person’s responsibility is not determined to the end, they use expressions such as Article 4 - integrated border management. According to this draft law, state border protection tasks are carried out by border police, and pursuant to Article 8, on a proposal from the Ministry of Government, certain border crossings for border traffic, border control is carried out by the authorities of the state administration responsible for customs duties, and when they do, border police give them instructions for work and provide professional assistance. Please, and then why don't they do it themselves, or it's the government's manners to double both the organs and the number of people doing them for all the jobs. Article 17 of this proposal regulates the regulation and equipment of the border crossing. Article 1 of this Article reads - border crossings must be arranged and equipped in accordance with the conditions laid down by the Government and international standards, so as to enable the safe exercise of border control. Since I'm from Pirot County, I'm going to bring you closer to how these international standards look on our nearest border, according to the Republic of Bulgaria. The state border towards Bulgaria is 367km long and is in charge of the Regional Border Police Centre, based near Dimitrovgrad, in the village of Gradina. Under the authority of this regional border police centre are 12 border police stations, which is to control the crossing of the state border, which is to secure the state border. The station of the Negotin border police, Vrška Čuka, Strazimirovci, Fishing, Mokrinje, Zaječar, Knjižvac, Pirot, Gradina, Surdulica, Bosilegrad and Dimitrovgrad, under whose authority are the road crossing of Gradina and the railway border crossing of Dimitrovgrad. On paper, it's quite enough to cover 360 kilometers of state border, but in practice it's quite different. In practice, the state border towards the Republic of Bulgaria is uncovered and due to the lack of people, under one. For example, about 70 miles [72 km] in 12 hours, there's only one police patrol of two police officers. Two, lack of vehicle. Every border police station in charge of security of the state border has a maximum of two vehicles, one of which is mostly 100% invalid, and for that right fuel is up to 15th, possibly 20th of the month, and imagine just how much fuel that giraffe drank, just mentioned. Due to all this by the locals, who are still unemployed, there is an illegal crossing of the border, in order to traffic people, to smuggle weapons and ammunition, to smuggle narcotics, to smuggle textile goods, to smuggle cigarettes, and lately to smuggle vehicles. Thus, a number of local criminals, who were sentenced to prison sentences in Serbia, found refuge in the Republic of Bulgaria, and the state border crossing illegally as a result of the above. It is also specific that the control of the crossing of the state border at the Dimitrovgrad railway crossing is carried out in accordance with the agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on border control and the procedure in railway traffic, signed by former Capital Investment Minister Velimir Ilic, by Serbia, and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolaj Vasilev, by the Republic of Bulgaria. Under the agreement, the Dimitrovgrad railway border crossing is the common border station of the Republic of Serbia and Bulgaria and the control of the crossing of the state border is conducted in the same state of the Contracting States. With the permanent presence of the border authorities of the police and customs of the Republic of Bulgaria at the Dimitrovgrad railway-border crossing, there was an increase in criminal activities, where they were involved. The customs and police of the Republic of Bulgaria are in line with the local population, which is carried across the state border by various types of goods and are not subject to control under that agreement at all. This is what you, Mr. Minister, should be taking care of. If they've given you a deadline from Europe to adopt these laws, and what they should look like, that's not the problem. Mrs. Kolundzija, if not from the first, and the second or third attempt will provide quorum and the bill will be passed, but you should follow what happens to the application of these laws on the ground. Or are they, Mr Dacic, adopting them just to show them to your superiors, and you don't care how many drugs they illegally enter Serbia, in veins whose children it ends, who earns millions of euros on it, what money is financed, how many weapons and ammunition they enter Serbia and whose lives are threatened by it. As a biologist, I can't help but notice that only in Article 24 of this bill, very briefly, in a few words, mentions the control of the introduction of animals and plants, and you should be aware that in this way many infectious diseases can be introduced into the country, which would have a devastating impact on our agriculture and livestock production. Just for a little while, I would like to mention that due to the mild customs regulations and poor control in our country from Bulgaria, Turkey, China is making goods of very poor quality and thus endangering many domestic producers. I mean, specifically, the stuff, like leather, especially shoes. White Palanca, from where I came from, had the largest children's shoe factory in the former SFRY, where 1300 workers worked. Now, in every basement, garage or shed in Palanca, hundreds of women work in impossible conditions, no day of work, no pension and social security, producing children's shoes of extraordinary quality, which are no longer to be sold, because shops are full of cheap Chinese and Turkish shoes of the weakest quality. And so are the people in the White Palace, so-called. Serbia's shoe, which is normally in the back of Serbia's incomes, is forced to work for very small money to eventually secure a naked existence. I urge you, Mr. Minister, and all the ministers in the government, to try to protect this and other laws of the domestic market and domestic production from foreign goods of poor quality, which all normal states are doing. Fellow Members of the SRS lawyers will try to fix this poor, quick draft of the law with a crowd of amendments. I ask you to pay attention to them and that, as most ministers say in the final word, no matter what parliamentary group they come from, accept those who will contribute to making the law that you adopt better. The SRS, of course, at this point if you do not accept our amendments, cannot support this bill on the protection of the state border. Perhaps one day when we really know what they are and where our country's borders are, when they don't force us to work with Kosovo, as part of our territory, because of our entry into Europe, we co-operate as if it were our neighbouring, special state. Until then, we will try to show you that there are many other countries with which Serbia can and should co-operate, in addition to those countries that have recognised the quasi-yptarian self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3700	Thank you. Mr. Maras isn't here, so I give my word to Mrs. Judith Popovic. You've got four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3701	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the LDP will vote for the foreign law in principle. We think it's great that after 28 years he finally got to law and order. We remind you that the Foreign Law, which is still in force, is the law of the former state of SFRY and was passed in 1980. It is good that this law is a harmonisation with the procedures of the European Union, it is good that this law, in fact, we are modernising our regulation, therefore, a regulation that regulates the legal relationship with foreigners. However, it is not good that, as soon as the parties are mentioned, a conditional reflex arises a problem of national security, public order and immediately approaches legislation to protect the public order, national security, from foreigners. What's the problem? It's the problem of the old nomenclature, the old relationship, the outdated attitude towards the world, that's the xenophobic attitude towards the world. These two members of 75 and 76, which have been mentioned well, could in some ways also be governed to be, as far as the standard is concerned, modern if the LDP amendment is accepted. They primarily refer to the reporting of foreigners and to the collection of information on foreigners. We believe that there is no real reason and an excuse to report strangers immediately, literally it is now, 12 hours is really a short time, and the non-reporting of foreigners is drastically punished from five to 25,000 for natural persons, and 20 to 100,000 dinars for legal persons. In doing so, legal persons are being punished in the next execution of this violation with a ban on even action, which we really consider to be excessive, because we see no reason why this would be done and regulated and thus punishable. Something that we have just heard that the promoter was forced to regulate these provisions in this way, given that there are no technical conditions and there are no personnel that could record these foreigners as they cross the border, as it is in these neighbouring countries around us. Therefore, we really do not see the reasons why these LDP amendments would not be adopted and why we could not reach some agreement and consensus on all this even before this law was proposed. As for the collection of personality data when it comes to foreigners, we think it is completely irrelevant, because the automatic copying of some legal solutions from foreign laws often does not result in appropriate solutions, and therefore this way of data collection is totally unnecessary. I note that the LDP will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3702	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3703	I will try, on behalf of the List for European Serbia and the Serbian Movement, to restore for the sake of our public, and also for the sake of respected colleagues and colleagues, to point out all the importance of these two laws and what we expect will happen tomorrow specifically in terms of improving, strengthening and modernising all our services, above all at border crossing points. We all know that the first impression we get about a country is acquired at the border crossing at the moment of entry into that country. It's a good thing a few years ago, border control jobs were taken over by the army by the Ministry of the Interior, because we know that it's a feature of totalitarian regimes waiting for you at the border, an army, dogs, to treat you immediately as a potential secret agent, a spy, someone who will undermine the security of the country. All the laws that need to be passed, primarily because of ourselves and because of the need to comply with European Union standards, should be fully European. We think, from the Serbian Renewal Movement, that we cannot go to Europe with Europeans, but also little with anti-European or laws or certain provisions of those laws. This calls for serious consideration of these proposals relating to Article 75 of the Law on Foreigners, because if the European Union rests on the principle of a free flow of people, then the fact that a businessman will come to Serbia and eventually his host will have to explain most kindly to him that he still has to apply to the police service indicates that there is still no order in the country as it is in the countries of the European Union. The impression of a businessman will not be as it is gained in other European Union countries. On the other hand, the question arises whether our police are fully prepared to respond to all the tasks of recording and managing information systems at border crossings in the way it is done in the countries of the European Union. We are, of course, absolutely aware of the fact that our police haven't been fully personneled or technically trained in that part yet, but something must come from something. That's why, I say, we need to think very seriously about this kind of amendment. On the other hand, at our border crossings, alongside visible corruption, which is, of course, less present than in Bulgaria, which is a member of the European Union and which is precisely due to the high degree of corruption and its border services suffers certain and great consequences for its country than the countries of the European Union, the consequences that we do not want tomorrow when we are in the European Union to suffer, and therefore we believe that we need to start from the eradication of corruption at our border crossings. Then, if someone comes into our country and waits 10, 12 or 15 hours to enter the country, then there is again something wrong with the work of border services, so it is necessary to improve the permissive power of existing border crossings, improve infrastructure and where international traffic and regional traffic allow the opening of new border crossings absolutely to do so. That is why the Serbian Renewal Movement, of course, is a major step towards strengthening these institutions and our country's reputation, will vote for these two laws, but tomorrow at the application of these laws, first of all because of the interior minister here, we expect that what is existing in life and what we all see is being removed tomorrow in the application of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3704	Thank you. National MP Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3705	Dear MPs, Mr Minister, the Bill on the Protection of the State Border sets out the usual language formulations and phrases on administrative protection of the border through customs and police authorities. International border co-operation and co-operation are mentioned, however, there is no mention of military border protection, military formations in this bill are not foreseen as a form of border protection at all. The most devastating action that has threatened the Serbian border through history is the anti-Serbian foreign factor policy, but also today the anti-Serbian Serb policy, and the non-Serbs, instructed by the Liberal-Democratic and Social Democratic Internationals. So today, however, the biggest threat to the existing state borders is anti-Serbian politics, even implemented by some parties in power in the existing coalition. Religious, political and military terrorist actions reduced Serbian ethnic, national, geopolitical and ultimately state space. In the mid-19th century, the Serbian ethnographic or national space was determined by the northern Istria line – the Serbian Moravice in Gorski Kotar – Žumberak. With the religious proselytism of the Vatican and the Roman Catholic Church, or the Roman Catholicism of Serbs and the creation of Croats, as well as the Islamisation of Serbs, this primal western Serbian space was increasingly approaching the Drinian borders. Communist leader Josip Broz is directly responsible for withdrawing many Croatian borders towards Serbia. Even the anti-Serbian Gjidina, or Gilas Commission, which in 1945 withdrew the borders of the National Republic of Croatia to the detriment of the Danube Serbs, assigned Ilock and Vukovar to Serbia, but Comrade Tito, as they commonly called it, the largest son of all our peoples, ruled that these two cities and municipal areas with the Serb majority belong to Croatia. Josip Broz intervened against the decision of the Gidine Commission by correspondence on the margins of the document that Vukovar assigned to Serbia: Why the old Croatian town of Vukovar in Serbia? Because of the two cities that Broz assigned Croatia in the end, unnecessary bloody struggles were fought in 1991. Autonomous provinces are a communist Broz product from 1945. State demographic terrorism over Serbia since 1945, the number of Serbs in Cosmet has been decimated. Cosmet today has been declared an independent state by a powerful part of the international community. Furthermore, Vojvodina stands before all of us by the project of the statutes of Serbia, which are the authors of the League and Pajtic Democrats. So, threatening to change the northern border means Serbia's reduction. In the last term, during 2007 I spoke on several occasions about the Vojvodina Separatism of non-Serb Serbs from the Cankova League. At the time, however, I did not mention Pajtic's Democrats, but at the time I asked the government what it meant to do against anti-Serbian acts of open Separatism of the Duke League. That's when I got the answer that the government has no knowledge of such activities. The government's response was used by Nenad Canak and sheretically prepared to sue anyone who declared him a separatist. I am asking the same question today to Mr. Minister, present here, as a member of the government: is there any separatism among Ligas and Pajtic's Democrats today? Otherwise, historians know that the present-day Vojvodina, as I said, is Broz's anti-Serb formation, created as an anti-Serbian autonomous project, which was meant to ensure the ideological and cultural integrity of the Habsburg countries and be a springboard for spreading the idea of a great Croatia. It was by no means the Serbian Vojvodina of 1848-49, which was based on the bright traditions of the Serb people in the struggle for autonomy in the space of the former Austro-Hungarian monarchy. I believe that every serious state should take measures to protect the state, through arrest, processing and banning the work of anti-state separatist elements. And in my previous session, I have pointed out that these are the sights of the successes of the duchy separatists, since the silent breaking of Vojvodina's information space, through the establishment of special Vojvodina television. Then, there is cultural and scientific institutional separatism achieved through the smooth action of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, then, the duchy flags hang uninterrupted during various anniversarys. Furthermore, there are mentions of the duchess' passport, somewhere playing the duchess anthem, at some sports games. The president of the Vojvodina Assembly, Kostres, openly advocates the state of Vojvodina, demanding nothing less than legislative, executive and judicial authority for the new Pannonian state. However, he only naively claims that he is not in favour of an independent Vojvodina, but only of an autonomous region. Similarly, Croatian separatists in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Radićevci, Mačekovci and Brozovici also spoke. So the ominous fact is that duchy separatism is being conducted according to the Croatian model. Paroles are heard about the economic exploitation of Vojvodina, "the duke's wallet in the Duke's pocket", as Macek used to say in Croatia. Calling for the creation of an independent state of Vojvodina, Canak, as once did Stjepan Radic, says it is only a matter of benign, harmless autonomy and regionalisation of the state. So I ask the question of the minister and the other members of the government -- what does the government think to do to prevent this open separatism of the new Vojvodina anti-Serbian front, as was once the front of Dude Boskovic in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and thus prevents the rest of Serbia from being cut apart by the example of KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3706	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3707	Article 226. I would ask Mr. Žutić not to speak out of his mind, to study the 74th Constitution and ask him to consider that Vojvodina has some acquired rights that wish to return to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3708	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3709	You all know how the 74th Constitution was adopted, without the Serb majority. A certain number of Broz agents, so-called The Serbs, without any Serb majority or any legal decision, imposed the 1974 constitution. This isn't Broz Yugoslavia anymore. If the Vojvodina remains in this composition, that's almost half of Serbia. So, it's not the great Yugoslavia, where Serbia is torn apart. If the areas of Srem, Banat and Baka are not created, that northern part of Vojvodina will soon be separated as a separate state. It's just amazing that half of the country has certain privileges compared to the rest, especially in relation to the Shumadi.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3710	National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3711	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the MUP in both governments, Vojislav Kostunica, and to remind the ministry's leadership was Minister Dragan Jocic, apparently working very well, responsibly. We were ahead of us at the time of four draft laws that were important for the Schengen visa of Serbian citizens. I will also remind you that out of these four, two draft laws have become laws. First of all, it is the Law on Travel Documents and the Law on Asylum, and these two who are on the agenda today, the Law on the Protection of the State Border and the Law on Foreigners, have been in place for a long time as proposals in the Assembly. To remind me, then Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic did not consider it important to put them on the agenda, although lawmakers insisted it was very important and had to put them on the agenda. Anyway, I wanted to say that it's really been a long time and I'm glad that these two draft laws are on the agenda today, because they're a condition that Serbian citizens are better quality, they travel easier and they kind of approach certain standards that apply to the EU. As far as the law on the protection of the state border is concerned, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Point 5 of point 97 determines that the Republic of Serbia determines and provides a border crossing system and controls the traffic of goods, services and passenger traffic across the border. I have to say that the law that regulates and controls this matter is old enough, it was passed back in 74 years. For the past 30 years, he has suffered some changes on several occasions. What is the essence of all of this is that circumstances have changed, that the world has become completely different than it was in 74 years and that it is good that there is a law that is innovative and that can contribute to a more quality goal, which is why it is proposed. Among other things, in this old law that is still in force with certain changes, there was one provision that was completely exceeded, which refers to the fact that there were division of powers in the affairs of state border control and security. In fact, we all know that at the time the police were practically controlling the border crossing, and the army was providing a border. By demilitarising the state border, one of the reform objectives in the EU's convergence process, police have taken over security of the state border. It was one of the first steps, I must remind those who have forgotten, according to the standards of Europe, the acceptance of Europe's standards. Also, this proposal for a law that today is ahead of us is bringing our positive regulations in line with what is our constitution. The bill allows for the establishment of a secure system of state border protection, then a high standard of control and fully regulated and precise coordination, which has always been our weakness somewhere. I think this time, it's very precise and very high-quality. So, this precise coordination of all the bodies involved in this process. In this way, the state of Serbia is protected from the spread of cross-border crime, which we must admit is on the rise and that we have at all times some new crimes which, practically, we cannot follow legally. Then, illegal migration and illegal crossover of the state border are prevented, also a problem that is very current. We have major problems with this as well as we as a state and all the countries that are on that road from the east to the EU. What is very important and what I think should be pointed out is that all of these protect the health and life of people, but they contribute and protect the environment. You remember those famous affairs that carry birds across the border, then with the various transfer of the plant world that's forbidden to be brought out of this country. Now let me say something about foreign law. The law should replace the existing law, which is also quite old, was passed in 1980. The proposal sets out visa rules and time limits for foreigners in Serbia. The proposal fully complies with requirements in EU countries. They're almost identical to the Schengen rules. In this way, they represent a quality introduction to the visa waiver talks with the Schengen Agreement countries and putting Serbia on the white Schengen list, which I think is the goal. It is also important to point out that according to the Agreement on Special Relations between Serbia and Republika Srpska, which is also the result of the work of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the new visa regime will not apply to citizens of Republika Srpska, who will still be able to enter Serbia only with their personal cards, but will not refer to citizens from the former SFRY, except Slovenia, who has other visa regimes and Serbian citizens have a parity way of entering Slovenia. I have to say, these are good and quality laws, extremely good suggestions. They, as I see it, have come across the approval of all parliamentary groups, which suits me as a DSS MP, because it shows that quality, good and responsible work has been done in the government of Vojislav Kostunica and has worked Europeanly in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Because we come to a paradox, those who have made European laws that today apply, as you can see, European proposals, some say they are not European-oriented. It's a paradox that someone has to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3712	National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only talk about the proposal for a law on foreigners. So, before I begin the presentation, I would like to draw attention to all previous speakers who have said that this law will support only one very important conclusion. This law includes foreigners and refugees and displaced faces. That can't be allowed. So this law treats refugees and displaced faces as strangers. The amendments submitted by the SRS are the only way to resolve it. In Article 59, it is said, I must repeat that for the sake of the public - Types of travel documents for foreigners, in paragraph 2: ''The travel document for refugees shall be issued in accordance with the special law and international contract. '"What is an international contract, which is a special law, when it is known that there is a Law on Refugees? The law accurately states that travel documents are issued for persons who have escaped and displaced. This is why we asked for an amendment to delete this position of Article 2 of the 59nd and to add at the very beginning of this bill in paragraph 2 - that this law is not applied to foreigners, because otherwise we cannot treat and add an attitude - and persons who have acquired refugee status. We cannot allow foreigners to be persons who have been displaced into Serbia's territory through other people's torments. The other thing, and it is very important, is that this bill gives great authority to ministers, so it says -- the minister of the ministry will in co-operation with the minister of another ministry make a decision on this or that. Otherwise, Mr. Dacic, you'll only deal with strangers. You must give that jurisdiction to your ministry, so that the ministry in co-operation with the other ministry that needs to do the job, because here it is either a technical error or a termological error, but it can be misused because of this mistake and pull out a double interpretation and then you will in fact deal only with strangers. So, it seems to me in nine members, in Article 15(2), 20, paragraph 3, 28, paragraph 2, item 2.67.2 says that the minister, the ministry in co-operation with the minister of the second ministry, is doing competent work. I also have to remind you, we have written amendments, that in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia only the state authorities have the right to lay down regulations. That's what you'll see in the discussion in detail when we explain the amendments. Another thing, which is very important for both you and the citizens of Serbia, is that some members of this bill are contrary to the Constitution. On the side of having technical failures, which can be interpreted in duplicate, which benefits either one or the other from interpretation, we will nevertheless present these suggestions. So in Article 11, the last position says, under the heading - entering into the Republic of Serbia will be denied to a foreigner if, now there are items, there is no valid travel document, there is no sufficient means, etc., so it says, closer to the conditions laid down in this article's position is prescribed by the government. Why would the government prescribe these conditions? He's prescribing the D.O.D. The government cannot now be above the law, so that some member of the government prescribes something to make a decision in the government and that the ministry remains deprived of the law for its possibilities. So, we have submitted that amendment because it is very important to know the powers of the ministry and the authority of the government. About the time in the shelter; we are here in a situation where shelters have to be built more than we have practically a prison in Serbia. If 180 days is the maximum time limit for the face to be in the shelter until it resolves its status, we will be in a position to build hotels, i.e. the shelters on every corner of Serbia, as a huge number of foreigners pass through our country. Another very important thing, and that's what I mentioned at the beginning, that some members are biting the Constitution. Article 28 paragraph 3 states: With the request for the first temporary stay, the stranger is obliged to attach an appropriate correction that he is not convicted. Now I'm going to give you an example, since you're here. The provision first disagrees with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the provision of Article 17. The constitution requires that foreigners, in accordance with international agreements, have in the Republic of Serbia all rights guaranteed by the Constitution and law, except for the rights which only Serbian citizens have under the Constitution and law. This, of course, refers to electoral rights, bans on exile from the country, bans on the seizure of citizenship, the right to participate in the management of public affairs, etc. Accordingly, I would like to remind you that the provision of Article 102 is also paragraph 4. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "No one has the right to ask citizens to file evidence of their condemnation or indemnity." Because you know what a huge gap in the administration itself is? Here's a specific example. In order for a stranger to come to our country, he must verify the jurisdiction of the court in Serbia, in order to obtain in his home country a certificate of indemnity, and then for such power to supply in Serbia by virtue, you know what apostol means for international use. Then, after obtaining such authority in the country of origin, his power of attorney translates it into a court interpreter, so that, after obtaining in the country of origin, such a certificate of non-judgment is re-provided by a trustee for the purpose of international use, so that, upon arrival in our country, the court interpreter can translate it into our own language, so that we can issue any document to him - whether he is convicted or not. I think that this administration is pretty big, that we still don't have the opportunity to see exactly what a misdemeanor it is -- maybe it's traffic, maybe it's criminal, it's all violations, but the court doesn't have a classification from all these parts in every country, so the correspondence there, the correspondence here, requires enormous and time, which is definitely going to, admit, have big jobs and expenses for one document that the MUP requires in the process of filing requests for temporary stay. The second thing is, we asked for this in Article 27 to issue a special form of conditions that must be met in order to allow you to enter our country. One more thing I would say is that I would not take up time for my colleagues, which is - the competent authority must provide the applicant with a request, because of these notes, to provide a multilingual form of request for the authorisation of a temporary stay. In the city's SUP, the Foreign Office, foreigners who approach the Foreign Office, for example on the Sava Street, to apply, although they pay an administrative fee covering all the costs of the procedure, they are directed to apply for release, which otherwise print for the solution of the Contemporary Administration and costs three dinars, buy at a nearby agency and pay 1,500 dinars. Therefore, the three dinar form cannot be resold through an agency authorized for 1,500 dinars, looking for this correspondence and making it possible to make it possible for the person who wants to stay in our country. So, because of all of this, Mr. Dacic, I ask you to pay attention to the status of displaced persons, to the smaller administration as little as possible, to keeping strangers who are trying in an illegal manner to get as much punishment as possible for those who use other persons' travel documents. There are fines from 6,000 to 20,000 dinars here. It's nothing. One hit man can take a document from anyone, enter our country, do some work, you can catch him in the act and punish him with 20,000 dinars. As long as you prove he's a hit man, he can pay the fine, stay in this residence hotel, as far as you've been here, for six months, and then he goes back to his country of origin. So these penalties must be rigorous, and those penalties must be very large, because these failures are not small and, of course, as little retention as possible of such people in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3714	Thank you. There's a word from MP Nikola Lazic [[Employees asking for a break]] So we decided to take a break from 15.00 to 16.00 hours, now we announce. (Verica Radeta, from the post: You must take a break now, because today is Thursday and Mr. Dacic will not be here at 15.00 hours. ) Unfortunately, we still define ourselves for this term from 15.00 to 16.00 hours. He has the word MP Branislav Djokic. He's not here. National MP Gordana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3715	Dear MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected ministers present here, we have before us a proposal for a law on the protection of the state border. The Serbian government has sent parliament to adopt - a bill on the protection of the state border, a proposal for a law on foreigners, as well as a proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, which we have already discussed in principle. These are three laws whose adoption, according to the Serbian government, is necessary in order for the Republic of Serbia to be a step closer to establishing conditions for visa liberalisation and putting on the white Schengen list. These are the greater desires of the rich and spoiled but hard-to-achieving objectives of the current government, which the European Union offers a full basket of promises, and in return the ruling coalition meets all the ultimatums and blackmails of Brussels and the European Union. In return, Serbian citizens live hard, on the edge of existence, and have no money for food, let alone travel across the European Union. The first member of the law regulates the protection of the state border - organisation and method of protection. The total length of the border of the Republic of Serbia is 2,358.3km, and of which the land border is 1,609.4km, or 68.3%, river 705.6km, which is 29.9%, lake 43.3km and 1.8% respectively. This bill has ten sections and 70 members of the law. Reading the Bill on the Protection of the State Border, I was appalled by section five concerning the security of the state border, which I consider to be one of the most important sections of this law. This section only has two members - Article 48 and Article 49. Significant changes, consistent with new recommendations and the principles of security of the state border, have been accepted in the countries of the European Union and seen in this regard - that the state border security business is no longer engaged by the military, but is done by the MUP. Article 48 further states: "The security of the state border covers a set of measures, actions and powers taken along the state border, at the part of the state border between border crossings and at border crossings after regular working hours in order to prevent illegal crossover of the state border and to protect its integrity". What is quite missing, to me vaguely and quite shockingly, is Article 49, which reads: "The security of the state border can be carried out by technical means including electronic means". I would like this member of the 49th Law to comment on the minister - what it means by technical means and what electronic means can protect and secure the state border. Police took control of the border, and later, as soon as the technical part of the job was completed, a demilitarisation of the state border was carried out. Serbia's MUP controls 2,358km of state border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro, Romania, Hungary, Bulgaria and Macedonia, and there is good co-operation with members of the Serbian Army in the process. By demilitarising the state border, the government meets European standards in the area, meeting the conditions for applying integrated border management. Serbia's armed forces have been providing for Serbia since 1913, meaning 94 years, the Serbian border. What I think is important for the citizens of Serbia in this law, which is this fifth section and these two members, which is why I would like the minister of police to comment a little bit later on. According to the constitution, Serbia is a Serbian state and Serbian citizens, in which law and law are in force. Serbia has a president, prime minister and government. The protection of the law is guaranteed by the courts. The defense is an army task, and public order and peace are guarded by the police. The bill mentioned here is against what I read. Nowhere in the law has the territory of the state border of Serbia been defined. So nowhere in the law is there any indication of what that limit is and what its territory is. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia emphasises that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible, and that the border of the Republic of Serbia is invulnerable and changes according to the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. The SRS believes that the bill's proposed law did not comply with the law with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand makes citizens of Serbia, because of these shortcomings that exist in the law, especially with regard to the security of the border, insecure, frightened in their country. As a result, the SRS will not vote in favour of the bill mentioned because the law is superficial, hollow and leaves the possibility of abuse. The SRS with its president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, says that the illegal declaration of independence of Kosovo has raised several issues, and because of that, as Interior Minister is present, I would like to ask some questions that he, if he has time, can answer. Will Albanians, with the blessing of Brussels and Washington, try to turn the administrative border of Kosovo into a classic state border? How will the Government respond to such an attempt? How will Serbia communicate economically, culturally with its cosmetic citizens in the future, and especially with special enclaves? Does the government know the answer that Kosovo will travel to "the rest" of Serbia, and how from "the rest" of Serbia to Gracanica and High Decan? The SRS will not give up on Kosovo and Metohija, nor on the Serb and non-Albanian populations living there. As a result, the SRS believes that respect for human freedom, the rights of movement of citizens across the border and ensuring the inviolability of the state border is much more important than obtaining a Schengen visa, so SRS MPs will not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3716	The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I have come to the floor wishing to have my right to the 226th Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Given that today I am in the Assembly Hall and this debate is present and Minister of the Interior, Mr Ivica Dacic, and since I am an MP from Mladenova, I would only like to take advantage of his presence and ask, since about 15 days ago here in the assembly debate was the famous report by the Ministry of the Interior, more specifically the working group that was formed, and in connection with the tragic death of Ranko Panic at the SRS rally held on July 29th. A few days of SRS MPs have been asking persistently numerous questions, asking for answers to all this, however, there is still nothing available today, and since it says that the Ministry of the Interior will continue to work on identifying the persons who committed the crime and the violations during the public meeting and identifying police officers who overstepped police powers. Here, I'm taking this opportunity and your presence to ask if there's any new information about this whole thing. I really don't want to believe that it's gonna end up on the suspension of six gendarmes, like so far, I think the only result of that investigation. So what we've repeated countless times so far is that we want to hear the truth or hear who killed Ranko Panic. I feel very uncomfortable visiting the mother of the late Rank Panic and his wife. They only want to hear it, so who's the killer of Ranko Panic and who was the commander of that murder. I'd like to be able to tell them soon, when I remind her again, that I'll be able to tell them. I know there's some new shifts. I know there's been a report from the Institute in Novi Sad, and I expect us to find out the full truth about what happened once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3718	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing two very important laws and we can see the importance of these laws as to how the position behaves. So we see both the importance and priority of these laws given, and we saw when the agenda was adopted, or the ruling party, how they reached conclusions on this item of the agenda. If we look at Serbia's borders, we can say that Serbia today is a country like many Latin American states, the most unprotected state, to say, here in Europe. If we look at the flow between the newly formed or artificially created state of Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia, where UNMIK is on the one hand and a terrorist Kosovo squad that guards the borders of the newly created state and on the other, the police of the Republic of Serbia, and how the flow of both goods and goods smuggled, I should say drugs, which has found their way to the west, towards the north, towards Europe. This can be said that much of the interior ministry of Serbia, since the period from Mihajlovic, we have seen how successful the police have been to protect and normally to realize such cases. As for the foreign law, I think again the ruling coalition and the government resorted to some kind of suspicious behavior or, let me say, to their dubious morale. Does that happen to apply to strangers, to people who have displaced or avoided faces? In a way like these 15 years they've been allowed to manage themselves, to spend time on certain camps, where life conditions are abnormal and where, surely, in these and such camps, the old out-of-date faces, people who couldn't manage. I am afraid that the Republic of Serbia and the government in some way want to get rid of such citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These laws are not subject to, if you look at many foreigners staying in the Republic of Serbia, who have come with suspicious tasks to the Republic of Serbia, do they, as spies belonging to certain spy organisations, or many NGOs that are in some humanitarian action, need certain passports or certain documentation? No, I don't. Today Serbia is a boiling country, I used to say when I was looking at the left and right sides in the Federal Assembly, I was saying that the left side is where when you look at the MPs you can define -- what kind of spy organizations they belong to. I'm sure you know that when the SRS came to power, first it would clear up with its five-collars, so it would clear up with those who were smuggling weapons, they were supposed to be on the battlefields, and now they belong to some kind of fake or waste party. It is therefore important that the mandates of the SRS return, because those who took their mandates, they acquired them on the cheek of Professor Vojislav Seselj, the greatest hero of today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3720	The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing two laws: the law on foreigners and the law on the state border, in a united debate. Since most of my colleagues and predecessors have talked about the state border law, I will try to say more about the foreign law. Immediately, looking at this law first came to my attention that this law is in a certain sense discriminatory to one category of our countrymen, and of course it is primarily meant by Serbs living in Croatia, Republika Srpska, Montenegro or any other European country or in the world. According to Article 3(1) of this law, anyone who does not have Serbian citizenship is considered to be a foreigner. In this way, Serbs from Republika Srpska, Croatia, Montenegro, as well as citizens of some of us even unknown countries, like the state of Ivory Coast, Haiti, the Faeroe Islands, etc., are placed in the same plane, so that I do not list all of them. I do wonder if a Serbian from Knin, born in Knin and living in Knin, is guilty of not being able to live in the same country with the Belgraders, the Novosadians, the Nislims or any of the citizens of our state of Serbia. On the contrary. The man is certainly not guilty, his greatest desire is to live in the same country with the citizens of the country of origin, but unfortunately, we, in the preamble of this law, declare such a category of our countrymen as foreigners. Of course, we know that there are other laws that ease what I'm talking about, and I have to say that the situation with us is something more favourable than what's going on in Montenegro. In the country of Serbia, foreigners live on a variety of grounds. However, I noticed in this law that he devotes too much detail and time to asylum seekers. There's a lot of talk about setting up for asylum seekers, so the home line at asylum shelters, etc., which, of course, should not be avoided in law, but I think there are more important things than that. I get the impression that someone who's been making this law or someone who's been involved in this law is expecting a wave of asylum seekers from who knows which countries. This law does not speak enough of all categories of foreign citizens, and we all know that domestic and foreign companies have a large number of foreign nationals working there. This law does not speak at all, for example, of a special category of foreign citizens, and it is about married friends of our citizens who have lived in this country for 20-30 years and have not resolved the status of citizenship and have not received Serbian citizenship. For some I personally know, first of all, that they are unable to raise money, because these citizenship fees are very expensive. Here, first of all, he means, let's say, women, wives of our citizens from our friendly states of the former Soviet Union. I would ask the legislators to keep everything in mind. In Article 28 of this law, it states that it can practically conclude that the right to work in our country can be obtained by anyone who gets a residence, which, of course, is not the case with other countries, because we know that our citizens in Germany cannot possibly get a job, and if they get a visa to stay in Germany. So let's not go to Germany, but to our neighbouring countries, like Croatia, too, stick to it. We know that one of our famous passionate artists, Seka Alexic, was once arrested with her entire orchestra in Croatia for not having a work permit. Since he's been cutting us off for a while, this is where I end up, and I give my colleagues a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3722	Thank you. People's MP Milorad Krstin. I'm sorry, just to let you know that we will, in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure, continue your work after 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have two important laws ahead of us, and I think they should have been sooner. I'll talk about the law on the protection of the state border. It is said immediately in Article 1 – this law regulates the protection of national borders, organisations and means of protection. Under point 1) - Security of State Border Inviolability. But I can't look back and I can't look at Serbia in all of my territory, when it's guaranteed by Resolution 1244, there's no comprehensive limit, because there's always a beginning and the drawing ends where the drawing of the border begins. Unfortunately, by the will of Washington and Brussels, Serbia is the one and only state that the south of its country cannot survive and say - these are the borders of Serbia. However, there is now a new period, and this will already be reflected in the province's parliament on 14 October, as I am informed, thanks to Pajtic of DS and Nenadu Canku of LSDV, a new Statute of the province of Vojvodina appears. It's not the Statute, it's the new constitution, they didn't want me to, it's the real truth. So, we need to cross Serbia's borders again, it needs to be reduced, we've already been taken 15%, we don't have a border on southern Serbia, we have invented an air or protected zone, and here comes new separatism, some new will again of Washington and Brussels, in the image of Pajtic and Nenada Canka, and those who will help them to vote in the province of Vojvodina on 14 October. What's falling on me, Mr. Minister, is also a 50-year-old. It says - the state border is determined by an international contract, and then in Article 55 it says - damage to the state border, or border incidents are solved in accordance with the international contract, or diplomatically, if there is no international contract. Why is it standing here -- the state border is determined by an international contract, and here we have -- if we don't have an international contract, then diplomatically. It's normal to go diplomatically first, but the borders of a state must be respected. To use this little time as much as I have left, since you've denied us an SRS MP group, with this nonexistent, from Mr. citizen Caine and the new director and drama by Orson Wells Jr. I can talk here for half a year and he won't understand anything. Only in Article 56 do you have to keep in mind, where it is said that -- for the sake of visibility of the border line, the minister responsible for internal affairs -- there is an amendment of the parliamentary group -- can prohibit a set of certain types of agricultural cultures. You will again, Mr. Minister, have to agree with the competent authorities of the Serbian state who will either replace those parcels, which is to be owned by the state of Serbia, I mean by individual agricultural producers, or allow them to be those who, as until now, while the SFRY existed, while the Yugoslav Army, so now the Serbian Army, these people will be your bearers of the notice when someone crosses the border and is not a border crossing. It is not without reason why there is a further individual sector, it is not without reason why these people there have these kinds of cultures, which allow for a review of what, now but according to EU law, which is not provided by the military but by the MUP. So far as it's been, you have to understand, Mr. Minister, that these people have to be compensated. It says here they can't be compensated. They must be compensated, but we will do so when it is in particular, with amendments ahead of the SRS parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3724	National MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we don't have much time, I'm going to try for a few facts to point out, Mr. Minister, to you and your colleagues. You have to agree with me in one thing, the way to the EU does not only involve writing and copying laws, but certainly their application in practice. Unfortunately, the eight-year experience suggests that it is not and the basic problem of these laws is the inability to apply them in practice. Even so, as legislators and representatives of the government, you were aware, so you postponed their application for next year, but personally I think it is very little time for the state to fully prepare to meet the obligations to which this Parliament will oblige you. There's a lot of examples. What is sad and shows the state's relationship to this problem is the fact that today we are looking for an alternative to legislation adopted in the 1980s, which was published in the official SFRJ messenger. Today we're talking about very important and important laws like this, and I don't think there was a need for that. In addition to this, the fact that the EU foresaw Serbia's path to the white Schengen regime as a long-term goal seems to me that there was no need for it to be done like this, I repeat, back-to-back. In addition, the fact that in Serbia from 30 to 35 border crossings there are two or three that are capacitative to meet the standards that Europe imposes through this legislation, and that is Horgos, Gradina and I think the Batrovci, and all the other crossings are far below the standards that are expected of them through this legislation. This refers to the application of techniques, technologies, information technologies, human resources issues at border crossings. Here's just one example. Is it compatible, for example, to talk about Prohor Pcinski's border crossing in southern Serbia and information technologies and their application to it? What should also be pointed out is the fact that when the EU considers our path to the white Schengen regime, it will certainly require the fulfilment of four groups of criteria, both very strictly and rigorously, and these are criteria relating to illegal migration, state policy and security, EU-Serbia relations, reciprocity in this respect and certainly regional coherence. We are far from those standards that are acceptable to European opportunities and Europe. Finally, given that I do not have much time, I think it should be pointed out that Serbia's path to the white Schengen regime is definitely dependent on the political will of Europe, not only on us who live in Serbia or do this legislative work. It is also necessary to say that Europe does not insist on this legislative matter because it wants us to be technologically and in every other sense compatible, but in this way protects ourselves from adverse consequences, given that half of Serbia's borders are the EU's external borders and I personally think that the EU's mood towards us and putting on a white Schengen regime will be experienced in the same way that we experienced it in Brussels after the ratification of the SAA. That's when we got the slap. I don't want to, but I think we're gonna get a slap this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3726	Thank you very much. National MP Lidija Vukicevic, you have five minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3727	Not to dispute the constitutional basis for passing such a law, I think this law should have been better prepared. In what way? First of all, within the state, to resolve the issue of our survival as a state, hence its borders, the fates of the refugees, the question of displaced and missing, as well as their economic status. With the dilemmas so cleared, we could talk a lot easier about people who are truly foreigners, their entry into the country and simplifying the procedure for obtaining a visa. This looks a little bit like the Monden lawmaking, we weren't as fast as we could, and we got into Europe, which is much less willing than it really is. It's not even known that when they get dressed in Brussels, we're already spreading umbrellas here even though the rain isn't in sight. The passing of this law is a distraction of what our borders are, the process in which the country is parted, gone, and the people are economically failing and starving. So we have one situation where old wine is poured into new bottles, and old relationships are wrapped in new forms. What are our limits, actually, now that we ask like this? Are these the AVNOJ borders or are they the 1974 borders, when you know well that the country of Macedonia, which until then, did not exist? So, I will remind you that that is when the provinces became states, and that once again, Kosovo began to leave us, that we are struggling to keep Kosovo in Serbia's composition until today. Yesterday, the General Assembly accepted Serbia's resolution that the International Court of Justice in The Hague should give advice on Kosovo's independence. I can see that it's being presented to the nation as a collective drunkenness of victory, but you all know that after collective drunkenness, the head hurts the most. Most of all, I would be happy if, instead of the advisory, non-binding position of this court, we had sought the criminal responsibility of those who violated international law and recognised Kosovo's independence. Now, that would be good luck for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. The new statute, which is totally unconstitutional in the Vojvodina procedure, and which: leads, of course, to the secession of Vojvodina from Serbia. Is this return, in a way, whether the new statute was being returned in 1974, so the border law could have been much more decadent, much stronger, much more precise and underline the sustainability and inviolability of Serbia's border as a state. As a person who has spent a lot abroad, I could talk about introducing more order, about discipline, about culture, about treating foreigners who are coming to our country, but I will refrain from it for one single reason, which is more and more citizens who have become foreigners in their own country and what the solution to their status does not have their own permanent and has no definitive solution. The boundaries of trust that can be held in one state are determined by its interests, you know, he spoke Washington. I'm not sure if there's absolute state interests here or just party interests. It's more like it's gonna be different, because every country we've ever had has been a party. We seem to be competing to pass as many laws as possible, and we know that there are most laws in the most problematic countries. Secondly, we keep calling for no one to be above the law. There's a crowd of people in our society above the law, and we need to make sure that these same people aren't out of jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3728	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their rights under Article 93 want to speak. Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3729	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the MUP, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will take the opportunity, because we have agreed to work until 15.00 hours, so let me call on Rule 226 of our Rules of Procedure and ask for the next explanation from Mr. Minister. I was found in today's writings, and whenever we include any of the means of public information, we and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia hear that Mr. Minister has banned both announced gatherings or gatherings whose organisers have requested permission to maintain them, for Saturday. What am I surprised by? I'm surprised because I got the impression that Mr. Minister and that the MUP has equated in this way to a large extent the neo-Nazis, the pro-fascists and those who wanted to resist them. This is my tendency to raise this neo-Nazi or pro-fascist movement through the MUP and decisions like this throughout the government or in general the Republic of Serbia, because on about a week of October 20th, when Belgrade once and for all said goodbye to fascism, once and for all, the whole of Serbia forgot about this fascism, we forbid those who wanted to gather against this fascism. I don't think it's appropriate, and that if there was any concern that it might escalate into something like what was in Novi Sad, our MUP must have the strength, the resources, the brains and the powers to deal with it, and that it all pre-warned and protected the citizens who wanted to express their protest, which someone thought it was doing in freed Belgrade. I remind you that yesterday a letter came to you on the initiative of the LSV MPs, supported by the signatures of all the People's MPs of the List for European Serbia, to prevent and maintain this pro-fascist meeting, but it did not occur to you to prevent the holding of a rally against such a thing. Just to take advantage of the opportunity because already several SRS MPs spoke to LSV today to tell you, both to you and to all who have doubts about it... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Here, a second; the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the vast majority of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina do not need it, and they never asked for it, another Serbia, but rather different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3730	I thank Ambassador Radovan Radovanovic, we took note. I think the Minister of the Interior, if he wants me to give the word to Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3731	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to thank everyone for this debate. Of course, different angles and approaches were heard in the debate, from one criticism that says the law was prepared in haste, to others who say that it has been prepared for years. In any case, this law has passed and debated, this law is also in line with our EU Association Office, concerning European standards, this law pretends that Serbia could enter the White Schengen list. That's why all the remarks that go towards facilitating this procedure and avoiding some perhaps outdated methods that, as you know, have been in our country for years, can be removed if we consider it in one way how to get into the Schengen system, and not go so far as to figure out, by any chance, that the Schengen system actually exists because there are no solid security measures and control of their external borders. Otherwise, if someone thinks you can go to some country of the European Union and someone doesn't know that you came there, I think that's a lot of naive thinking. In any case, it is true that the Ministry of Interior is not technologically equipped in such a way and it is not small funds. There are no small funds to introduce a single information system that would allow us to keep complete records and permanent archives of entry and exits from our country. On the other hand, it would allow us to record in such a way a place where they would stay. It would also allow it to be controlled that if someone reports that they will leave our country through Macedonia, they will exit through Montenegro, that the system simply alarms. So tracking strangers isn't motivated to spy on their private lives. I guess you all know very well, and you're aware that foreign security services are actually giving us more information about foreigners who are staying in our territory than our services are unfortunately doing. Because we think it's an out-of-date method. But foreign activity control is carried out exclusively for security reasons for this country and for this people. Don't blame any security structures afterwards if there are certain gaps that simply result from the lack of clear legal regulations. As you know, our country is a transit point for drug trafficking, weapons, people. Our country also becomes a transit point, and sometimes it is the source of international terrorism. In our environment, groups are meeting to plan international terrorist activities. How do you think we fight this unless we have the legal right to monitor for security reasons certain activities of foreigners in our territory? So the measures of the European Union, the United States and the United Kingdom are 10 times sharper than those applied in our country. I guess that's what you all know and feel when you travel abroad. I thank you for all these remarks. Of course, we agree that when something needs to be changed somewhere, add, we have enough time to discuss and actually until the vote itself we see what we can do to improve this text. Essentially, this text was also designed to allow Serbia to welcome the placing on the white Schengen list. That's why this isn't about some commanding officers. This is about something that must be of interest to Serbian citizens. The interest of Serbian citizens is to stop waiting in humiliating ranks in front of the embassies. We can say we shouldn't even go there, but a large number of Serbian citizens travel and it's normal for them to become our goal of what may have once been the past Yugoslavia, which is that you can go around the world without visas. In any case, we will also do that in small-border traffic we will try to make a deal with Bulgaria, Romania and perhaps Hungary, that in some small-border traffic that we will determine by agreement, it is 30 to 50 kilometers from the border, that citizens of our countries can go without visas, or even without passports, if we were to take a step further towards the European Union, we would only go with ID cards. Of course, controlling the state border is a prerequisite for all of this that we're talking about because the openness of borders, but also for the incarceration of all forms of criminal activity, and that's the goal we're going to try to achieve. Of course, we need the help of this entire society, the whole state. You know, from the military, this function has been transferred to the M.O.P. It is one process, it should also be humanised, it needs to be admitted to workers, it has to be paid, it has to be provided with technological and information systems for such a thing. We will sign an agreement by the end of the year with the International Border Control Organisation Frontex, as we have signed the Strategic Co-operation Agreement with Europol, which will contribute greatly to all of this that we are talking about here. As far as refugees are concerned, we'll consider all this. We do not aim at refugees being citizens of the second order, but it is not only regulated by this law and it is not only regulated by these regulations, because there is a Law on Refugees, there is a law on citizenship, there are many other things to be done together, and I think that one of the MPs of the SRS initially suggested it well, that this issue should be systematically resolved, that Mr. Buha spoke of it, absolutely I support it, that the issue of refugees, displaced persons should be dealt with systematically, that there should be a certain revision of this law. Of course, it belongs now to the other ministry. I agree that we should also consider these issues concerning the application of foreign nationals and everything else. These are now details that are otherwise governed by the decision, i.e. sublaws, regulations. And I'd also like to remind you just so you don't think that the minister wants him to sign all this, the State Administration Act has been regulated that the minister is simply laying down regulations, only him. That's why I ask you to keep such amendments in mind. It's not about whether he's a minister or a ministry. Normally, the minister is on behalf of the ministry, but the other law regulates that only the minister can do so, not even the secretary of state. Therefore, I ask you to understand that these laws must simply be mutually harmonised. Traffic at border crossings; unfortunately, it depends not only on police, it depends on customs. I think that's where we have to do it, that's one of the basics. The quality of border crossings, the opening of new crossings, the prevention of traffic, means a new system, we need to find a way to prevent huge crowds, and we need to keep this in mind because the borders of the European Union are in fact borders towards Serbia, so Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria. Of course, it's not just our ministry, but it's one of our goals. We recently signed a three-year agreement on co-operation between police Romania, Bulgaria and Serbia. I had a meeting with the Hungarian police minister and we're going to try to make one system just to unplug those crowds and find a customs system that will allow a faster passage through the border crossings. But for that, we all need a certain program. Also, just one request at the end. I thank you for all the objections you've made here and for this support you've given to these laws. I just want to remind you once again, we will, of course, look at all these amendments to the debates, we will accept all those that we consider logical, which do not violate the essence of all this and then at the next Committee sessions, I don't know if they will meet in the meantime, accept some amendments or give some new ones, so I hope that in the end most parliamentary groups will vote for the proposals of these laws. As far as this goes, I just want to say one more sentence. Harmonisation of the law with the European Union and of course with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but when we talk about harmonisation with the European Union is also a technological process. Someone said the same thing today at the beginning, same Mr. Buha, there are many laws and regulations that we have to lay down. I would really like to, and I would ask all the parliamentary groups if we had an agreement on that that some of the things that are necessary to bring in as soon as possible, in the interest of Serbian citizens to bring in. In particular, this is what I am talking about, the interest of Serbia and Serbian citizens is that these two laws and this set of judicial laws are passed as soon as possible. On November 6th and 7th, an international conference is held in Zagreb, where the European Union will present a report on how far we have come in all of this. If we want to move forward and move forward, if we want Serbia to come to the White Schengen list in the middle of next year, we need to do these things faster, and leave political debates in parliament for some political issues. It would be good if there were this consensus of political parties over what is national and state interest, and it is certainly the interest of Serbian citizens to travel without visas. As for the report you spoke of, I delivered that report to the National Assembly, to all members of the Security Committee. There's no reason for anyone to cover up anything that's happened here. The whole report has been delivered to the competent state and judicial authorities and the whole process you've been talking about is being conducted. I don't think that's what I'm talking about right now. What you said about the meetings at the end, a citizen named Zlatan Stojanovic reported a meeting Saturday. So she didn't report any organization. It was reported by a citizen, and that's what the counter-professors have been reported. After checking that the citizen Zlatan Stojanovic had something to do with these organisations you were talking about, police banned the meeting. On the other hand, if you want the police to do their job, and we don't want to ban anti-fascist gatherings, but we can't have such gatherings at the same time, because we're going to have conflicts and the police are going to deal with the separation of different groups and then you're going to re-report who did what at these meetings. As far as we're concerned, the set of organizations, which can be said to belong to a pro-fascist or pro-Nazi, is absolutely forbidden by the police, but that doesn't mean that there won't be a group of people that the police need to intervene. So we think and ask the organizers of these other gatherings not to be in the same place that day. That's the point, and that's why we talked about security reasons. Otherwise, the police can't do their job, they'll be standing between two fires. It is publicly announced and the meeting is banned by Zlatan Stojanovic, as I cannot say in whose organization, because he applied as an individual. I can only say one more time, you don't doubt it, and you're sure that the party, whose president I am, is anti-fascist. We voted here against equating what was in World War II. I have to say that I am amazed and that in the government of the Republic of Serbia, it stands in pictures of all the Prime Ministers, it is found here, I couldn't believe it, but so, a picture of Milan Nedic, as president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in Germany 11. It's not about the police, it's about politics or sometimes it's about each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3732	I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on foreigners and a proposal for a law on the protection of the state border. Since we have two MPs who have reported the advertising of the Rules of Procedure... You're giving up. Thank you. I hereby inform you that the break is until 16:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Law on Higher Education I welcome the Minister, Mr Obradović. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to an article. 94. The Rules of Procedure, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is by parliamentary groups, as follows: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 9 minutes and 36 seconds; MP group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; MP group "Forward, Serbia" - 22 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Art. On the 37th Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the parliamentary group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, item 13 of the first session of the Second Regular Session in the National Assembly in 2008, will be represented by MP Zoran Shami. On the basis of Art. Items 3 and 4 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that MP Miletic Mihajlović will represent the SPS-JS parliamentary group when considering this item of the agenda, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing official, Dr Zarko Obradovic, minister of education, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3734	The Honorable Presidency of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I must say that I am really pleased to be back with you, but I am now experiencing circumstances in a different function, and that I will be in a position to present to you tonight a brief law, but very important to the students of the University of Serbia. In fact, it is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I hope that the debate, as well as the vote, will show that there is agreement between the parliamentary groups that this law will be passed as soon as possible, as university students in Serbia expect it. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Higher Education Act, which is adopted by emergency procedure, which aims to allow for the reduction of the number of points needed for enrolment in the coming year of the study. Given that many students in Serbia will find themselves in a very invisible situation and most of them will not be able to register next year, which could objectively cause adverse consequences for the work of higher education institutions, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. Given that the implementation of the Bologna Declaration is a process that requires adaptation, the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given you this proposal for a statement. The basis for this proposal is the position of the University of Serbia, state and private conference, held on 23 September 2008, and the position of the National Council for Higher Education on 30 September this year. Based on these views, the ministry put forward a proposal to the government, which the government established at its meeting on 2 October 2008. The constitutional basis for the adoption of these amendments is contained in Art. The 79th point 10. The constitution, which found that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system in the field of education, as well as a public service system. Higher education institutions have joined the coordination of study programmes and study regimes with the provisions of the Higher Education Act and the Regulation on standards on the procedure for accreditation of higher education institutions and study programmes established by the National Council for Higher Education. In view of the obligations of higher education institutions in the reform process, it is necessary to make objectively many changes concerning study programmes, teaching methods and textbooks. It also needs to be taken into account the fact that students need some time to get acquainted with the new study regime and adapt to it. In view of this, it was estimated, this was the position of the University Conference and the position of the National Council for Higher Education, which we accepted at the Ministry of Education, that for students enrolled in studies in the first four years in the initial reform of higher education to change the conditions for studying on the burden of the budget, i.e. to establish a smaller number of SPB points as a condition of retention, i.e. obtaining student status financed from the budget. In the bill we sent you, you'll see that we tried to determine precisely for students the school year they wrote down what number of points it took to enroll in the year. For students who will score at least 42 points in school 2007/08, this will be a condition for enrollment of the year. For students in school 2008/09 who score 48 points and for students in 2009/10 is 54 points. I must remind you, since this information is rarely heard in public, last year the number of points needed to register the year was 37. So this is one systematic increase in the number of points, because it is estimated on the Conus, and on the National Council for Higher Education, and with us at the Ministry of Education, that it is simply necessary to align the number of points with the situation objectively in the area of higher education from the points of view of the results achieved. What you all need to be familiar with is that the number of students who scored 60 points, as the condition needed to enter next year, which was prescribed by this law and which would change this law, was on average 22% to 30% for universities in Serbia, so that would objectively be one small number compared to the number of students. We're creating a situation with this so that the higher the number of students can enter the year. I must say, we didn't want to enter any other provisions of the Higher Education Act for reasons that are simply such a character that they don't require urgency. In addition, under this law on the implementation of the Constitution there is a provision for all laws to be brought into line by the end of the year with the provisions of the Constitution, so that we will be in a position to make changes to the Law on Higher Education. We felt that this correction of the number of points was necessary for the year's enrollment. To us, when we say "us" and in the Ministry of Education, and before that both at universities in Serbia and at each university individually, at the National Council for Higher Education remains the obligation to determine in the coming period what is the reason for these results? Whether it's about the content of teaching programs, whether it's about the scope of textbooks, whether it's about inadequate teaching, whether it's about student relations, whether it's about his participation, whether it's about the interactive relationship between teachers and students, whether students are attending classes, whether they're taking part in all the teaching activities, and that's going to be the answer that we all need in high education to know what we're doing. In any case, we felt that this step should be taken and conditions created to enroll as many students as possible in the following year. I have to say that the state predicted another measure to help students, given that the number of points is gradually increasing and that a certain number of points for enrollment is being set up next year. In this bill, we have provided for the possibility for the state to finance those students, i.e. to be on the budget, who simply cannot pass all the scheduled exams and all the points within four years, so that students are able to complete all the exams in the fifth year, or to pass all the exams and fill all these points without simply being on the burden of the budget. As far as this law is concerned, you need to know that we have provided for another small change, in order to specify the deadline within which students are enrolled in basic studies and studies at higher schools until the entry into force of the Higher Education Act, we have proposed certain amendments in Article 123(1) of the Law on Higher Education. The Ministry of Education seeks to achieve the goals of higher education in accordance with the law, which is to transfer scientific, professional and artistic knowledge and skills, develop science, improve artistic creation, provide scientific, professional and artistic rejuvenation, provide opportunities for individuals to acquire higher education under equal conditions and to be educated throughout their lives. Our goal and our country's interest is to continuously and significantly increase the number of high education residents. It may seem paradoxical, but it's true -- if this law is passed, if the Assembly votes it, by increasing the number of students who enter next year, we will objectively contribute to achieving this goal, which is to increase the number of people with higher education. Otherwise, statistics show that we have a lot of problems in the field of education. One of them is a large number of people who are either illiterate or illiterate, with an under-high degree of education, several hundred thousand people are illiterate, from first to fourth grade primary school, or from fourth to seventh with these numbers is over one million and 200 thousand, but only 6.7% of people with high professional training. It's objectively, this way we're going to increase the number of people with high expertise. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education are committed to the objectives of reforming higher education, as part of the application of the Bologna Declaration, so that Serbia becomes a permanent and integral part of the European educational space. The Bologna process in higher education and changes it has brought has also changed the position of students in the teaching and scientific process and functions of universities and universities. The importance of students and their role is extremely large and can be said that an objective student has an exceptional place in the center of the Bologna process. Our desire is to increase the efficiency of study, to make the level of knowledge high and that the ability to apply these skills is also high. The aim of the Ministry of Education is a higher level of education in society, its quality, efficiency, availability and equality. In this regard, education must be arranged according to the world and European standards, especially with Serbia's accession strategy to the European Union. Professional public, educational workers, students and parents must be involved in formulating the education strategy. At the very end of this presentation, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to invite you to come together to support the amendment and addition of the law. The proposed changes and additions are not and cannot be in favour of a narrow part of the student population, but for the benefit of all students and the entire academic community. I must tell you in the end that we have received support for this bill both from Conus and the National Council for Higher Education, but also from student organisations. I stress this in the context of events at certain universities of Belgrade University and perhaps others in Serbia, that the student parliament and the Union of Students of Serbia stand behind the proposal. I urge you to support the proposed changes and to work together on the best possible basis and goal of the future, of course, students and society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3735	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Under the agreement of the chairman of the Committee on Education and Mr. Minister, the Education Committee will be held at 5:00. He has the word Mr. Jovanovic, as president of his parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3736	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, I would first like to say that our parliamentary group will support the proposed amendment of the law, above all because we believe that young people are the greatest victims of a very irresponsible policy that has been conducted for years in our society. This is an extorted reaction from the ministry, but it would be very important to use this debate to create much more serious assumptions about the fundamental transformation of our education system, since it is in catastrophic condition. What exactly do we do by supporting the proposed amendments to the law? We degrade the system on which our university education should rest. We simply lower the criteria and we must make that clear. We need a much deeper analysis for a serious reform of the education system. The minister himself mentioned that the Council met on September 30th, and in the current political circumstances, this is a rather rapid response from parliament, but we need today, without any reading of the past, to answer some more serious questions than those formally raised by this debate. Why have we failed education reform? Why is it so disillusioned with our education that we practically implement the possibility of studying by lowering the criteria of study, without asking the question of quality in the first place. Our society has been lagging behind the world for many years, but the educational system of this country, unlike some other levels of organization of our society, has been extremely high quality. We may not have had in the past such a manifested degree of democracy in our country, but in all the years of analysis, the quality of our education system was very high. In recent years, we've been leaders, but on the blacklists. The most non-functional education, minimum investment, exceeded capacity and, in response to all this, top political irresponsibility. In 2003, parliament adopted a comprehensive reform plan for our education system from primary school to university. That reform was abandoned after a year. Let us put aside the challenge of evolution and Darwin's theory, to leave aside an English language from the first grade of primary school because the students are overly burdened, and we all know that children teach us Serbian language and English in the second or third year, because today life is so organized that it is impossible to avoid it, to leave aside the fact that we had a minister in a previous congregation who was least involved in education, but to see what we can do now and how we can reverse this course of events that severely compromises our country, not just one government anymore, but our state and this parliament. We'll make it possible to amend and supplement this bill, open the door to a new school year for students, but what's what's waiting for them at the university? Why did we have so much tension last year about nosing a diploma? So much controversy about the rights of students to transfer one level of knowledge to another format, which was actually a requirement of a very specific university contrary to Conus, and in agreement with, say, students on the other hand. Now we need to talk openly about these issues and not reduce this debate, but use it as an opportunity to support those who are obliged to advance the system of our education, which is the Ministry. The school year in Serbia began by bringing their children to school, and then the schools that had previously bought books told them that the books they bought were no longer valid, because someone had not done their job. It's not the responsibility of the current ministry, let's understand each other right now, but it's primarily a fact that speaks of the neglect of our education. We want it to change. It would be very important if the minister could give us guarantees during this debate, not as MPs who vote, but as citizens of this country that this is the last concession, this is a short-term benefit. They used to give us grades, so they say, here's a two on your glass feet, but we don't need those glass legs anymore. We are now enrolling students in the new year by putting down the criteria for enrolment. Why are these entry criteria coming down? What made it impossible for students to show here those qualities that they exhibit all over the world? When you look at an analysis of the quality of knowledge provided to our students, it's at a devastating low level. The positive that still survives in our universities is much more of an expression of individual effort and effort than any systemic effort. Where, for example, is the budget rebalancing of our education? On the tail of events. Where's the planned expenses for next year's education? As a rule on the tail of events or a little further if the minister is more pervasive, but that must not be the rule of our country's functioning. On the contrary, we want education to be put first in the future activities of the country by telling the truth first in this society, and the truth is devastating. Our system is devastated. After 20 years of destruction, he's practically destroyed. Students depend on the individual willingness of a professor on a personal sacrifice that is not appreciated and, on the other hand, on ambition, also personal, which ultimately cannot be materialized in this country but is expressed in another environment. That is why only in Serbia so much effort is needed to gain the necessary knowledge for normal functioning in modern life. Therefore, support for proposed amendments and additions to the law. Students are already practically at university. Imagine how paradoxical and grotesque that is. Students listen to lectures in new years that have not been formally enrolled, so if we agree to that at university, and the university is probably one of our country's top institutions, and it should be a centre where general public opinion is created, what will be the periphery of our society. I think we need to talk very seriously about this and prepare for the continuation of the reform, and even try to go one step further from the current solutions because we don't need to reach that level that the modern world will leave in the meantime because it will go one step further. Without any consideration of the quality of the professor, we are not the ones who should talk about it, without any consideration of the potential of students because we have no doubt that they are great, we cannot ignore the fact that the university has long since played that role in our society that it would have to play. Once a professor was an institution, today is a social case. Last year, we had a major action against corruption in our society, among other things, at the university, but no one asked how a university worker, a professor, an assistant, can function normally in Serbia and whether he can respond to his salary needs from this country because they have given him life, because that's what a professor at the university does. Since we were six, we've practically never seen our children again. They spend more time in elementary school, high school or university than they do with us. The people we give them to must be people we show respect to, not only by giving him our child, but also by allowing him to play that role in life that we can't play, but by passing it on to him. Today he's a high school professor and a punch bag, and someone this country humiliates, and on the other hand, a high school student or a college student is a victim of such an irresponsible state-to-know relationship. We've systematically demoted knowledge for years, and now we're facing these consequences. We expect concrete results from both the entire ministry and we show great willingness to help impose completely different priorities: understanding for pensioners, understanding for the military, understanding for all those budget users, but I think they should all come second. There must be a future in the first plan of this country, and the future of this country is defined by the complete reform of the education system, primarily by the reform of the education system that is necessary and this is proof that it is so. That's why we vote in favour of the law, but we expect very clear initiatives from you and we offer our support because this situation is unacceptable and strategically unsustainable. We can raise formal criteria and increase these points linearly next year, but what is offered within the university next year, without serious interventions, will not unfortunately be at the level at which even this year is. Every year the situation at the universities is actually getting worse and that's what's obvious and it has to react very quickly to something like that. We're offering you support for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3737	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the representative of the SRS parliamentary group is Professor Goran Mihajlovic on this agenda point. The word has Miletic Mihajlović. Here you go. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to join the MPs who are expecting you at the committee session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3738	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, at the very beginning of my session, I hope a brief presentation on behalf of the SPS-JS, I would like to say that our parliamentary group will be pleased to support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. The proposed amendments and additions to this law are essential to the need at which we are now in general as a society, but certainly with higher education and not only higher education, but also lower degrees of education in Serbia. Of course, as a country, we have joined new reforms that should include us in the order of European countries with a new system of values, so we certainly need to catch up when it comes to education. We as a country have also defined ourselves as doing the necessary reforms in the field of education. When it comes to reforming higher education and applying the Bologna Declaration, it is true that practically in front of students, in front of professors, a new regime of work, which differs significantly from earlier and such, rather different regimes, influenced that there could be no adjustment in various segments and among the subjects involved in the educational process during a short period of time. So there are old ways of learning, or mastering programs, we have some unadjusted textbooks, we have non-application of new technologies, or slow application, etc. Of course, if we are talking about new values and giving an education grade, I would disagree with the assessment that the previous education and education system was worthless. It's just not true at all. He had his high values and had really good results in the past period, and we have today staffed by this system of education and education completed high schools and acquired academic titles, which today are the bearers of the world's voice in certain spheres of life, work and science. Of course, by not glorifying the system of education and education from the previous period as absolutely good, it carries its own, we live in a new time today and certainly stands the need to adapt to this new time and simply nothing can stand in the same place. The conservative approach in such things is very dangerous, although in its essence, the process of education and education carries a dose of conservativeism to a rather large extent, in terms of the difficult abandonment of what was once applied, which are principles of work, principles. Certainly, the new system of education has its high values to be adapted to, but for which it takes time, for all the participants in it to catch up with these requirements, to be successful in all of this, resulting in one of the qualities that is expected here. It is certainly necessary and I think that these amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act have a goal in one segment, one part, to enable the gradual adaptation and capture of steps with what is the official start of applying a new high-level education system. The current passing of students at our colleges is really small and it stands up to 30%, as far as I'm aware, I don't know if the lower limit is 22%, don't hold my word, but somewhere up to 30% is. The impact of such low passivity is certainly multiple and it would indeed be irresponsible and unjust to give a finger only to certain segments or only to individual entities in the process of education that they are the sole culprits for all of this. We live in very complex social circumstances, political, economic, social and certainly cannot idealize our education compared to what we are as a society and as a country. It takes a lot of patience and a lot of perseverance in that direction to change things. We've heard from Mr. Minister, and we need to underline it, of course, that we're a country, in general, with insufficient numbers of higher education personnel and that in this direction we should continue, because at the present moment, the largest number, as far as education is concerned, we have people with secondary expertise. Of course, these changes and additions will contribute to the gradual growth of the number of highly educated people we really need. Also, changes and additions give students who are on the budget the opportunity to exercise their right and their privilege, to say so, or the possibility to remain on the budget, but also give opportunity to students who are outside the budget, who finance themselves, to make a certain number of points through the formation of a ranking list within what are free seats, within the framework of the budget financing quota, that they can enter among students who will be financed from the budget. Also, we saw in the proposed law, Article 2 paragraph 1, that they were given in three points the points needed to enroll our students and that it was 42 points for 2007-2008 or 48 for 2008-2009, and 54 points for 2009 and 2010 compared to what the law had prescribed earlier, to be 60 points. This basically means that by applying this, let's say for 2006-2007, we had a 37-point threshold, and there are 33 points short, for 2007-2008 42 points is this threshold that gives students the opportunity to exercise their right to do what they want, compared to 60 that's minus 18, 2008 and 2009 that's 48 points, for 2009 and 2010, it's 54, so six less. Only 2010-2011 is projected 60 points, as originally predicted by the law in continuity for all years. At first glance, this is a reduction in the criteria, in terms of setting smaller requirements for enrolment in the following year, for retaining a certain status of students, but the law also regulates that after completing the studies, one year after the end of the regular duration of the studies, if they are enrolled in the first year of primary studies of school 2006/2007 and 2007/2008 respectively. For a year, they have students to replace these points and they will finally have the number of points that was originally prescribed by the Law on Higher Education. For students enrolled in the first year of basic studies 2008/2009 and 2009/2010 respectively. six months after the end of the regular duration of the study. For the past six months, it's this graduate internship, or if today it's otherwise called, and in the earlier period it's been called, during that time students are obliged to replace that minus in points that were prescribed. I think that in such a complex situation, I'm going to end up with the overall, which is our country and society, we really need to make an amendment to the Higher Education Act and help all the subjects in the education process, the teachers and those who are following students and students themselves, to catch up with the full implementation of reformed education, which practically starts in a few years. I think that such a move and such acceptance will have a really great understanding of what needs and students today, and parents, and teachers, and colleges, but also of all spheres of life and work that require higher education personnel. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the SPS-JS Parliament Club will be happy to support the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3739	Thank you. Professor Goran Mihajlović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, before I move on to the presentation of this law on higher education, I would like to point out one anomaly that has occurred. Namely, we received a 1700-hour call for a session of the Education Committee, and you see the debate on the Law on Higher Education, on Changes and Supplements, began at 16:30. Now I should be there and here at the same time, and as we know, it's impossible for me to be in two different places at the same time, so I chose to be here with you, and I hope these Committee guys don't mind, because they'll be able to work without an SRS representative. It's something that, in my opinion, shouldn't have happened. The Law on Higher Education, as you know, was adopted on 2 September 2005, three years ago, and it is neither excessively long nor short period on which a final court on this law could be brought. We can bring a brief recapitulation, or we can take a walk through that law and see what the practical consequences of this law under which it is done in the Republic of Serbia are. This law regulates the system of higher education in the Republic of Serbia, conditions and way of carrying out higher education, funding and other issues that are essential for the functioning of higher education, and it seems to me that this law has been adopted very speedily and scythically. The aim was to respect at all costs what Mr. Ex-Minister Gašo Knezevic wanted, which is to apply the Bologna Declaration, which gave disastrous results in practice. The general opinion is that we are totally unprepared to accept this Bologna Declaration, and it is unprepared both materially and organisationally and humanly, because you can't have generations of students who have been educated and raised in some traditional spirit now suddenly transform and force them to think in European style, which is clearly the tendency of some circles from the West, and the goal is very clear. So they want to create more generations in this country that won't think for themselves and that they'll be able to just do what their Western mentors tell them to do. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that other provisions of this law are not respected and applied in practice. At the very beginning of the Higher Education Act, a lot is said about ensuring the quality of higher education. To this end, the National Education Council, which should be a strategic institution, is set up to provide guidance for the work of higher education institutions. You, MPs, are witnesses, have you spoken to anyone from the National Educational Council in the last three years? As far as I know, no one ever does. I may be mistaken, but for three years, there is still a period in which someone in front of the National Council should have notified the National Assembly of the results of the work of the council. The National Council has established accreditation committees and the accreditation of higher education institutions is under way. In fact, she ended up in former high schools. Most of the higher schools have been transformed and are now high schools, and in colleges it is ongoing. The commissions were working on principle - the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. The pre-accredited atmosphere was dilated. All the factors, all the school services were raised, and what happened -- more and more state schools in the Republic of Serbia were accredited. Basically, it's all the same, except they're not called "more" anymore, they're "high" schools. There's been a change in the study programs. A new way of grading, so-called. The ENPB, the keybinding for the European credit transfer system, and how it works in practice, can point to you on your personal case. I'm a professor of High Engineering Schools in Triestenik, holding objects - machine elements and machine structures. If I were to literally apply evaluations to Bologna, here's what would happen. If my students come to my class regularly, I have to record them and give them 20 points at the end of the year based on arrival. Since the subject has graphics, and these graphics can't be done at school, because all the classes are one-semester, students have to do it at home. Since they work at home, no one can guarantee that they did it on their own. They can be done by someone else and I have to give them another 10 points on graphics, that's 30. Labs are scheduled. If they come to practice, I give them another 10 points and that's 40. Some other activity they do, seminar work or something, that's 50 points. So, with 50 points per Bologna, you have to miss them. And where's the other one now, means whether they're really qualified to do something about it in practice, that's now the other side of the medal that's not defined by Bologna. You are obliged to let those who come and who are physically in number in some way miss, regardless of their results and pawn on the exam. Further, scientific research and art work on this Bologna Declaration is also at a lower level than it was for the simple reason that there is no co-operation with the economy. Students, according to the curriculum, need to work out a certain professional practice, but they go to a certain factory, the best engineers, constructors and experts from the mahogany factories left only those who, unfortunately, had nowhere to go and these students spent 15-20, a month there, minors bothered those people who work there and come without any practical footing. So the old Latin saying says, "The theory without practice would be dead, and the practice without theory would be blind." Unfortunately, we don't have that unity and the connection between theory and practice and that's another flaw in this Bologna system. Furthermore, there are fewer operational, fundamental and developmental research at research institutions. Once, as you know, it was a case of colleges doing projects and offering them to big firms. In particular, I know a lot of cases that the first five-year-old in Triestenik realized it. Unfortunately, there are no large industrial systems now, all of this has been destroyed, and the transformations from social to private have done so, so the type of co-operation between higher education institutions and business institutions has been lost. Furthermore, if we take a walk through this law on higher education, it continues to deal with the organs of higher education institutions and I can tell you that there is also a confusion in the work. So, the managing authority under the new Higher Education Act is the Council of Schools, and according to the old Law on Higher Schools, or universities, it was the Management Board. Now we have a paradoxical situation, new advice is not even appointed, and the old ones don't meet. Here, I'll tell you an example from my school -- the chairman of the High Engineering School Management Board is Mrs. Verica Kalanovic, Minister of the current government. I don't think she's held a single board session in the last four years. I was a member of that committee myself. The sitting shall be led by a deputy committee or by a person authorised by it. So, we operate under the old law, where there were boards of directors, and the school's advice hasn't been established yet, and here you see the law passed. So, a legal vacuum, where you don't know if it's done by the old or the new law, and I don't think the Ministry of Education is doing much to make it any better. Furthermore, as regards the financing of higher education institutions, the new Higher Education Act says higher education institutions are financed from the funds provided by the founder, specifically from state schools, that is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and as additional funding sources are scholarships, donations, gifts, dedicated funds, projects and contracts, commercial and other services and other sources. Now you see, there's an interesting case going on. In the old days, almost exclusively high education was financed from the funds provided by the founder, i.e. The Republic, and now some new fashion has come -- the less the state gives or the more the school is able to provide itself, and it is likely that the director is more modern and successful, so even at a seminar, I heard about high education that school managers are proposed to be introduced in schools. Now what they mean is that this manager is supposed to do, probably deal with some kind of business modeling or something else, I don't know, but unfortunately, the Republic's less involved, and more and more other sources are present at funding higher education institutions, and that's what can have very bad consequences, and you know why. When it comes to study regimes, it strives more and more in this European style, and traditional teaching methods are increasingly neglected, and I will remind you that our experts' diplomas have been highly appreciated and valued, minority, from Australia to Canada. All over the world, our people have found work around the world, and whether it's going to be that way and with this new Bologna, I'm not sure, because unfortunately, we're increasingly witnessing that generations and generations of students are finishing schools on this new system, and no sign of employment, which means that we're studying the code just to have it on paper. Furthermore, another interesting item in the Law on Higher Education is the recognition of foreign higher education documents and the evaluation of foreign study programmes. We have an example that in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija,'so, the laws of the UMNIK apply, more and more people go to Pristina, whether it ends or how we don't know it, brings a diploma and asks us to nostificate it. I don't know if Mr. Halimi is here, he's probably on the Educational Committee, but he's already asked three times on the Educational Committee to have the state of Serbia nostrificate the diplomas of those who ended up in Pristina, which are mostly people from Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje. Asking the board members why you don't go to Kragujevac, Nis, Belgrade, so they say they have relatives in Pristina, it's closer to them there, they have somewhere to sleep, to spend the night. Turns out we're going to have a flood of those Pristina diplomas very soon, and we're going to get into a situation that we won't know what to do with them ourselves. As for administrative and inspection oversight in schools, he seems to be at a lower level than he was before, and as you can see, criminal provisions are not present. Just remember the index affair. So, the affair at the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac rocked all of Serbia and recently, a few days ago, you probably saw in the paper, all the professors of the Law Faculty are back in class. I don't want to discuss whether or not they're guilty, it's not our job, but as far as I'm concerned, none of the educational staff since 2000 has been practically stuck, which our people would say, and I'm not sure that everything is clean and proper at higher school. The transitional and final provisions of the amendments to the Law on Higher Education are also in many ways unarranged and the SRS parliamentary group has submitted several amendments, but since this is a debate in principle, we will not now present these amendments, but when the opportunity comes. I would just like to express with this speaker hope that the reform of education in Serbia will not end as the military reform ended, because as the military reformed by Solana and NATO advisers, we also have advisers from Europe to reform education, but we need to make every effort and to sincerely hope that high schooling in Serbia will not experience the fate of the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3741	Thank you. According to reports, Mrs Zlata Djeric has the word on the draft law on amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3742	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Education and Education, we of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group will support this bill and I am obliged to say just a few words to you as to why we have decided to support the amendments and amendments to the Law on Higher Education, regardless of the shortcomings it contains. First of all, these changes and additions to the Law on Higher Education deal with the two most important resources Serbia has at the moment are youth and education. We all know that education is the most expensive commodity in the world and we all know, or at least we have knowledge that Serbia has been a leader in quality education in the world for decades. In these two decades of devastation of society, devastation of all institutions, of all values, I can proudly say because I'm a professor, that education has most preserved its dignity and has been the most important defender of youth in that general mess that has affected us. As I come from Somboro, from a city that has come to this area in the Balkans and in this part of Europe, the oldest teaching school, which is known for the tradition of education, above all, for teachers, I believe that we must make it possible, regardless of the shortcomings, to enroll a number of young people in universities in this way, to give more young people a chance to get a higher education. With higher education, you have a better chance of building your better future. Will everyone use it? It's up to them. But it's up to us to give them that chance, that chance. The release of a few criteria does not mean that the quality of education will be reduced. I firmly believe that teachers will not allow it, I firmly believe that those people who have suffered in this society for 20 years that, as one previous talker said, and in that I fully support it, therefore, from the institution that they represent to social cases, they have not bowed down on their mission, will neither now nor further allow that mission to lose its significance and its size in society. So we have committed ourselves to this mission and this obligation, that these two resources, the most significant resource that Serbia has at the moment, I repeat again, are young and educational, to support them, to help them continue to last. Don't forget, teachers are the most important, one of those three sacred pillars that every country has, that is, teachers and teachers. If the military teaches you how to use weapons, education, teachers and teachers teach you against whom, and this is a much more important mission and much more important for a nation. So we have a duty to allow young people to have their chance and this is one way to do it. First of all, we need to know that the reforms in education are the slowest and hardest reforms. These are the most painful reforms and their results are seen much later than they are implemented, which is why they are particularly sensitive and therefore they are carried out by the most responsible people, and from there by the professor, by the teachers, by all of us who carry the mission in education, who are not paid, but there are some rewards that cannot be measured by means of money, and we are happy and proud, and for that we do not give up our profession. So we remain still in this task firm and unwavering to give education a chance, to give young people a chance, and not to give up on reforms, that no law on education is perfect, but it is a long road on which we all have to last together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3743	The word is represented by a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and as president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3744	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, very briefly, the Education Committee has just completed its meeting. You'll get what I'm about to tell you in writing in a few minutes, and I suppose you can take my word for it. Most of the votes, the committee accepted amendments and amendments to the law and also accepted the amendment, which was otherwise accepted by Mr. Minister, Mrs. Jagoda Jorge, who seemed to have gotten to me. The Committee therefore accepted the amendment to the Law on Higher Education and adopted the amendment of Mrs Jorge. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3745	The word is made by Ambassador Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a serious legislative project before us, which was adopted about three years ago, about September 2005, and we have since, Serbian radically and in general, our SRS parliamentary group, given large reserves and pointed to the great shortcomings of this law on higher education, as well as the Law on Fundamental, High and Preschool Education. In fact, by embezzling the Bologna Declaration into our education, it almost made a mess of education and general education for reasons, which my previous colleague from the SRS mentioned, which our society was not prepared or materially, or spatially, or intellectually, so I can also say humanely, to accept such a declaration, or to build some level that some in Europe have designed. You know that the Bologna Declaration applies few countries in Europe, and it is mainly for export, or Eastern Europe, and it is now imposed on you who are sitting here, so that previous parliament had one heavy obligation to discuss these laws and normally with some majority to adopt all those laws that are now being changed. Not only this Law on Higher Education, but also the law on primary, secondary and preschool education must suffer serious changes and serious upgrades. Someone doesn't need to understand that we've been working in general against change, against progress in education, I don't want anyone to realize that we're old-fashioned in that direction, but I want to say, as the minister himself has brought out here, that what you or what he has imposed on you has not shown in practice and that it has simply demoted our education completely. This shows now the percentages of success in higher education and the achievement of the ENPB of those points, which we say are not generations of achievement, we from education if we blame the students, and we justify us, I believe we should neither work there nor do we belong in education. That's not the problem. The problem is a whole other nature. The problem is that since 2000, many private colleges and many more schools have received a license or accreditation to start and work. It's just that now it's the actual human-creation thing on all sides. Simply, a professor who now works in elementary, high school or college, if he applies a score, you'll see that it's a quantity and no quality of knowledge. The student should be regular, to come, to arrange some work, to attend, to participate in some competitions, in some of your workshops, and all of this is being poked to him. Unfortunately, the quality of knowledge, as it was before, is not pricked or valued. It costs all of us, it costs our whole system. We need to take this seriously and think about everything we do today. We are in a situation where we need to get lawyers in the state administration, in the municipality, in the Republic of Serbia, the government of Serbia, and we get from BK college, there's an average of nine points, and there's an average of six points from Belgrade State University. Please put your hand on your heart and let's say who you'd rather define. This is what is not good and what has not measured today by applying the Bologna Declaration, that is, what you Europeans advocate. So these are the serious problems of our entire society and education system. I can't help but remind you, Minister Obradovic came too, I had the opportunity to be deputy minister of education in the government, so we were nostrifying a diploma from 1997 to 2000. We had a case where a student from that directional education, from Stipe Shuvar school, moved to America to live there with his family and after five, six, or ten years, I can't say exactly, come back to live in our country and have to carry out the nostrification of such a diploma. I was an eyewitness that this student had been on a two - time exam, or at the time there was no repetition, but in June had poor grades, so he somehow completed this targeted education, and when he went to a city in America, he had all the excellent grades, or he had excellent success. It was a standard and a reason for me to conclude at that time what our education had in that time, and what reputation it has today. It's really degradation of school. This is what our students say, from primary, secondary school, and also from college educational people, i.e. high school institutions, masters and doctors, who show their success in competitions, on their patents, on their knowledge and skills. I can freely say that for the last three or four years that percentage has certainly been dropping, and that's something I need together, teaching, psychologists and sociologists to get involved, to build our laws on pre-school, primary, secondary and high education, and thus adapt our conditions, conditions of our climate, our intelligence. As for the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, I must say that at the time we had almost every member of the amendment, which were systematically connected to improve, as far as we could then in 1995, this law. Unfortunately, most of them didn't accept it. I remember, that's when the SPS supported that minority government, if I'm not mistaken, but it didn't support our amendments. Today we have come to some improvement that is seen in this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. I must say, as a naturalist, that there are many shortcomings in this bill, not only in language but also in law, so few who understand what Article 2 wants to achieve, where it should be built up, installed and whether this is an annex of this law or something that lasts for a certain period. First, since the amendment and the addition itself did not go in order as the members were numbered in this legislative project, I will refer to Article 2 and the first word says: "exceptionally from the provision of Articles 84, Article 4 and Article 88, paragraphs 1 to 4. The law." The word "extremely" can be considered twofold. I don't think this is legally good and linguistic, that this is ambiguous, and I believe that those who write this bill at the Ministry of Education should look at these things. We have here in Article 2 of the Change, where students who are enrolled in primary studies at a higher education institution after the entry into force of the law are generally foreseen, and ultimately with enrolment in the first year of primary studies of the school 2009/2010. in the year, they can retain the status of students financed from the budget, i.e. they can continue their studies in the status of students financed from the budget. So this wanted to extend and improve the status of students, which says that this law was not applicable. Normally, this is where SPB points are predicted. I think the National Council for Higher Education was in charge not only of changing the bill where these SPB points are supposed to be 60, they had to give that report to the Education Committee, at least once a year, as it says there, to report to the National Assembly, because for the first time I'm really reading and hearing that the number of points so far has been 42. Normally, in the school year it increased to 48.54 in 2009/2010. If the minister says that so far, research has shown that this percentage has been around 22 to 30% of these points, I think again this is one imposition that probably students will not easily meet, which means that they will again come under the influence of this amendment and supplement law. There's some indiscretion in this law. It is referred to as Article 84, meaning Article 88(1). This is an exemption from Article 84. It means Article 88, but it is said that students who are financed from the budget, who in the course of the school year, in the context of enrolment in study programmes, and according to the exam, acquire 60 SPB points, have the right to finance themselves from the budget in the next school year. Thus, all these views are contradictory to this proposal, because this Article 2 should have been upgraded in this Article 88, or found its place as an annex or a supplement, as I said before. That's what's generally unclear to me. Maybe you can figure it out in your own way. Article 123(1) states: "... for two years after the end of the regular duration of the study, they are replaced by the words "at the latest by the end of the school 2011/2012. the year." Gentlemen, if we realize that Article 123 is amended by this supplement, Mr. Minister, to read to you Article 124, which, there is cohesion, continues to apply: "students who are enrolled in a high school institution after the entry into force of this law and students from Article 123 of this Law have the right to study according to the conditions and rights of studies prescribed by this law, which relate to student status in respect of funding since the end of two school years from the date of entry into force of this law". So this is where the addition of Article 124 was to be carried out. Furthermore, as I would like to say, in the end, as far as the accreditation of higher education institutions and study programmes is concerned, I think it's late, and as I recall, it was in law until July 2008. Maybe I'm wrong here, but he's late. However, in the process of determining accreditation, as well as this law which has not been laid down, I am very interested in whether or not, and this is also a question to Mr. Minister, whether many higher education institutions that have not applied for accreditation to date, what will happen to these higher education institutions, and especially to private universities, which do not meet the working conditions under this law. You know that they should have at least 60% of regular professors, in a permanent working relationship, I apologize, at the university in the interior was less foreseen. I wanted to say so much. I think these remarks should be respected. It should be here to complete this proposal for an amendment to this law to be linguistically and legally correct. We Serbian radicals will have an amendment to discuss later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3747	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dusan Maric has the word. I would just take this time until Mr. Maric arrives, to inform you that it is obvious that at 1800 hours we will be at this point in the agenda and that we will be working today until the end of this point. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 a.m. on the agenda. I think it's desirable my explanation, but if it's clear to you, it's an extremely significant agenda that we need to finish, to give the Assembly the opportunity to work in all segments, including all its bodies and committees. Here you go, Mr. Maric. So we're going back to work tomorrow at 10.00.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3748	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I am taking the opportunity for government representatives to be present at this session to ask the government: what does the Serbian Government think about stopping a natural disaster that has been going on in the Great Plan for five years? For five years now, 50,000 inhabitants of the Great Plana, including 8,000 children, have been drinking technical water instead of water for drinking water, which is extremely harmful due to the high concentration of nitrates, not only in health but not allowed by medical parameters for the same water to be used for washing dishes, for swimming and cooking. So 20,000 inhabitants of the town of Velika Plana have been supplying a 35 - year - old tanker capacity of 5,000 litres for five years. I repeat, the town of 20,000 inhabitants of drinking water supplies one tank capacity of 5,000 liters. That's 250 milliliters of drinking water per capita. Citizens of the Great Plan have three options. One is that every day they take two or three hours to stay on duty in the city and wait for the tanker to arrive, another possibility is to buy bottled drinking water. If we take one family to spend about 10 liters of drinking water a day, it's 150 dinars a day and 4,500 dinars a month. The luxury of seizing 4,500 dinars per month for water in the Great Plana can afford one or two percent of the population. In the Great Plan, most people don't work. Those who work, work mostly for monthly compensation...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3749	Mr. Maric, you're off topic, but bring the end, please. I won't interrupt you. Finish up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3750	So, those who work, they work mostly to make up for eight to 12,000 dinars. The third option used by the largest number of citizens of the Great Plana is to drink water from the water line, thus directly endangering their health. There's only one solution to this problem, and that's why I answered the word, which is building a water treatment line in the Great Plan. According to estimates, the factory should cost about five or sixm euros. Maybe it's big money for someone, but it's true that five million euros for the health of 50,000 people is not big money and that the government should separate those funds. Compared to that, a month ago there was a problem supplying water to several municipalities in the western part of the Republic. Within two days, the government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated 75m euros to address the problem. As I said, the Great Plan is waiting five years for the Serbian government to set aside fivem euros to solve this problem. I ask the Prime Minister to tell Mr. Prime Minister what I said and that the government is indeed taking some steps to address this problem as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3751	Representative of the G17 plus Miloljub Albianic group, followed by Mr Milet Poscurica, the SNS parliamentary group and Professor Shami after him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3752	Madam President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all to say that the G17 Group will support the proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act. What I'm saying is that today's knowledge in the world is the most important resource. What was once a fundamental postulate in the economy – work, land and capital – is today a prevailing knowledge. Even the economy grows into an economy of knowledge, our entire society becomes a society of knowledge. It would be good if we could all work together to create a knowledge-friendly culture and raise the reputation of our teachers and education systems in general and pay attention to it. First of all, that's why I called in my word. I also want to say that the first and second information revolution, therefore, the first printing machine, and the first computers, have forever changed the business, life and work of people in the world. This law on higher education that we have ahead of us goes, first of all, to meet our students. That's how we're supposed to look at it. So in 2005, we passed the law, and when it came into force and got its practical application, it was seen that the quick entry into law enforcement itself would bring harm to the student population. We're going to meet the students by adapting the speed of law enforcement to them and their study. This number of points each year, a gradual increase in the number of points per year means that we will have one peaceful transition in the study regime under the new law and the Bologna process. When I mentioned the Bologna Process, I must say that until now Serbia has been evaluated twice for progress in the application of the Bologna Process and last year, in London, we received an extremely high grade, so the four in this, which will say that the first enthusiasm of law enforcement and accreditation, and the adjustment of colleges themselves, had one momentum, one driving force. However, we have a lot of work to do to really study and colleges themselves to get that envious quality. What's important is that students and teachers have movement, mobility everywhere in the world, because if we want to talk seriously about scientific and research work, exchange of students and professors, the movement of our people at the best universities in the world will contribute to the arrival of new knowledge and the promotion of study itself and to us. So today, when we talk about literacy in general, we have to say that every man who graduated from college implies that he has the knowledge of a foreign language at least, and that includes his computer literacy. These are some frameworks in which we have to act, as it is understood that interest and what ended enables him to normally get into work when he graduated from college. In order to achieve all of this, we need as a society to agree that we have a greater separation for education, research and science. So that initial step is the necessary agreement of all the factors, the agreement of all the actors in the ministries and the government itself, and also between us to feel that critical word among people, that people say -- that is, a resource for the future, and so we can achieve a sustainable development of the state in the longer term. We have experience in the world that talk about how really investing in education can change a society and a state. An example is an Irish model. In Ireland, people spent 30 years in education and science, and in 30 years from an undeveloped country of the world, they came to the 11th place among the most competitive countries in the world. But they had one agreement in the state, agreement on the need to attract foreign direct investment, agreement on the need to adapt tax policy to business, but also the agreement on investing in education, science and research, to have a mandatory and free high school, but to have access to all higher education. So we agreed, but they said a few more things -- we need to be persistent, firm and patient, and they said that investment in education and science goes beyond the mandate of a government, a political elite in power. So the agreement within the state allows for development on a long-term basis, because investment in knowledge and education actually has that long-term effect. There will be privatisation in Serbia, there will be more effects for a few years, but for the long development and progress of the state we must indeed define that we are strategically investing in knowledge and education in order to have normal development, to be one country that created the system itself capable of growth and development. That's what I wanted to say. At the same time, I repeat once again that the G17 Group will support amendments to the Higher Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3753	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3754	Gentlemen, this attempt by the government to correct the law that has really been passed by another government is correct and it may be the least we can do, if we have an insight into the fact that they have signed and supported this - student organisations, the National Council for Higher Education, has also realized that it is necessary for the Ministry, and most will understand and feel the parents of children who are being educated. When the law was passed we were talking about whether it is necessary to virtually simulate the conditions under which the Bologna Declaration will make the laws indicate how and how the teaching processes will take place in fact. The process of accreditation of higher education institutions, which were indeed, even though it was envisaged, should have been fully covered by the issue of higher education, did not prove effective. Namely, the licenses received did not guarantee many colleges that what they were doing would benefit students, that applying the Bologna Declaration was a relief to students. We have repeatedly said from this pay phone that there is no interference with human mobility, nor was there before this law was passed. We now have a problem with academic mobility and students and teachers inside, regulated by some different events and other circumstances. You have the fact that in one of the same colleges, because they don't exist and they don't work well enough community colleges related or identical, so in one year they don't learn the same teaching classes, although you have the form that 60 points of Bologna would satisfy each. This means that if someone wanted to change in the second year of study, by law, the college where they were going to learn, that the university would change or differential exams, or provided that it was an electoral object, then naturally in that case two electoral subjects, if both universities had the same electoral object, that thing would be something different. One of the reasons why this is not good is that the basic condition requested by the declaration was really not respected, which is to facilitate the conditions of study and burden of students with the curriculum. No college, I've asked many questions, has reduced the volume of studies more significantly, the length of studies, the content of teaching classes, my teaching programs adjusted differently. There may be opportunities somewhere to do this in social subjects, in social history sciences, but in natural sciences, it's hardly possible for you to significantly shorten the amount of material that some student has to master. What they shortened by switching to semester studies or bi-semed in maximum amount, the condensed time in which the student receives information was also compressed. No wonder someone at the medical school can't successfully master the subject of internal medicine, it's only coming this year to work on Bologna, because it will really remain defective in education. It's a clinical course, as well as a surgery where you have to spend time to get the student to see every case from clinical practice. It's not worth it to a doctor if clinical practice can't meet certain diseases, and rare diseases, even by extending their time in college, if these months and those days have no specific clinical cases, the student will never see it. Earlier, these cases were learned for two, two and a half or three years, so students could, thanks to that, have a greater number of chances of facing a particular problem. Now it will be aware of the testing and other ways of checking knowledge, of which when the law passed Minister Vuksanovic went out and said - that it is enough for the student to be present at lectures and exercises, he will get 70 points, and the foundation to pass just a little bit, and if he solves it on his lips as well, then he can pass. So the great euphoria of what Bologna brings is slowly seeing that it is falling and that we are forced to meet to make adjustments for things that are a violation of the Bologna process directly. We really won't be able to boast. I don't know how those high scores fell and who rated us, and who should judge us, if we're going to fail the exam ourselves, and the students are complaining that it's not good, the parents feel it. The government has criteria for which we can't know exactly how to assess the relationship between those who will have scholarships, no way of getting involved in the level of tuition because it gave autonomy to the university, and they maximumly use autonomy to raise tuition to the sky. The ratio of students within the range that can receive the university according to the license that someone has obtained seems to determine arbitration. Why is 50% going to go to the budget and 50% won't? Half a point may solve someone's destiny, to pay three, three, and a half thousand euros in studies. How many kids are we gonna lose here? How much at the beginning of the bad assumptions for the implementation of such a concise law, with what was wanted, and how Turajlićka was there, according to Vodnelic and other implementation groups, together with Gaš Knezevic, and they failed to implement it, but came Vuksanovic and implemented it, so how they had imagined. We've had kids studying for a long time. We have to do something that even when they're four years old, to be a beekeeper, they'll get some kind of knowledge. Let them have something, because the average study is eight or nine years old. If we didn't do this, if we didn't do this, we'd get a longer study. What have we done now? We need to cut the number of credits, the number of points students... Of course, the amendment that has come has been saved in terms of the fact that this will include those students who were originally not budgetary, but, according to Article 84, when they rank, in the following year of the study, they will be able, if I understand the minister, to compete, and also to proportionally reduce the points they carry and they can possibly enter the budget. It's very important for some colleges where kids really work a lot. The student's top load is sometimes 16 to 18 hours a day. It's never been. It was legally restricted. Such a curricula and program could never pass. Now it's all going through. Colleges carry credentials if one day on Monday you have class from 8 to 22 hours, with a two-hour break. That's not right, so the students will probably come forward with new requests. This is just the beginning. It's about the pockets, about the bones, about how many kids and their parents can handle it. Be careful, if you cut in half at some college of 300 to 150 and 151. The question is if this country really lacks an arbitration assessment or an appraisal, what it needs, how much time it takes, how many professors, doctors, architects, geodetic engineers, so that the state can treat and make it possible for some distribution of colleges that do this for the necessary number, then it could be understood. If you let someone completely decide on the level of tuition because the state cuts in half what they give, we are in serious trouble for the next generation. Now we have to, obviously and it's a turn and the state needs to do it, to get the kids to go to school. It is difficult to move from the circumstances in which one or two passed exams could be carried out in the following year. What's going on now? If he doesn't get enough points, he has to pay every credit, every point he misses, a thousand, a thousand and a half dinars. To go a year to spend, without being able to enroll in listening to other exams. We're just waiting for a day to say, "Here, this and that college, thanks to their statutes, his autonomy, he's decided he'll also be able to sign up, but for God's sake, he's fat enough to pay to listen to some semester item, so let's say he listens to it in the winter, and he sits in the summer semester. It's not far, it's gonna happen. How are you gonna stop it? In what way? By changing the law again. So, what I'm saying is that there really is a logic and a need for this law to be seen more thoroughly. That's what we've talked about a few times, and we've called on the government to do it, as well as the government. Something's not working here. The fact is that many Western European countries are slowly running away from Bologna or at least not applying it, but if you remember, there are MPs of the old convocation, the very declaration as well as any declaration, four or five sentences, ten, in which it is said to keep the processes of your education system, with your best experiences, intent, following your own tradition and creating conditions for transition, flow of information, conditions for establishing academic mobility of students and professors. When wasn't it? Well, in my day, it could have gone to any European country or Western country if, say, you knew language and if you were a similar member of the Communist Union, a good student, you could have gone wherever you wanted. Professors always. Those who wrote such a law, so they acquired their knowledge, their academic titles, their profession, according to some old law. Now let's not laminate on a law that we don't know exactly what he's missing, except the need to be changed, because it's kind of a step in meeting European fluids. Let's see that the way we change it, that we do something and let it be called some kind of bologna skeleton, but really be the one we'll all benefit from. Let's not take it one step back, so we can take it all back to the captain. According to this earlier, if the dean had been chosen differently, if a regular professor had been chosen differently, what would have bothered? There were 13 exams, three you can handle, ten you have to pass the story. Everyone knew and they were used to it, because the content hasn't changed. If so, new items have been introduced in many universities. Objects have been introduced by some professors, DOS revolutionaries, according to their findings on the Internet, taking off from other colleges, taking off many of their courses, and getting into their colleges. At medical school, two or three objects overlapping with each other, the skills of communication. Do you have a history? What's with the communication skills? That's not clear to me at all. Medicine is based on evidence. It's pointless. Every diagnostic has a proof procedure, but it's an object, it's new. Instead of 36, you have 43 items. It's not a relief for students. If students go to fight truly for their interests, they'll be in front of the government, actually, in front of the Ministry, it requires a lot of changes. What's that gonna be called later? Whether or not it will remain something "b" from Bologna, we don't know it, but we will always support students' demands to make it easier for them to study, when their programs are not adjusted and reduced. It's hard to cut programs. Their callings have been gradually growing since high school. He's learning high school now a lot more than 10 years ago. But the knowledge of science went up very quickly, and the students have to do more. We do not expect that the scope of the study can reduce the teaching program and content, but that the previous schools should give them more, to reach a higher starting level for the first year of study. If so, we have very talented children who win neatly everywhere, and the general transit 20 to 30% on the first results of Bologna. It's a good thing the minister said that, and it's a good thing he's going public with the right data, so we know how effective the system is. In that case, and in such a way, we will support any revision of laws that will make children and their parents better.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3755	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3756	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education proposed by the Government. I have the impression, I said earlier on the Committee, that the government is, in fact, a formal legislator of this law, essentially long before the government was proposed by the first students, and then adopted by the Belgrade University, and later by the Conference of all universities. These amendments and additions to the Law, as well as the Act amending, are actually due to the adoption of the Bologna Declaration just over five years ago. Of course, this now seems to me like one necessary ceasefire. My personal position is, of course, I have nothing against the Bologna Declaration as such, but the last moment we learn, and in that sense it's a very instructive situation, that things that come from Europe can't be accepted as a mantra, but must be seen before where we are. I'll give you a simple example. In France trains go 250 km per hour. Is that good? Of course she's okay. But can we pass the law that our trains will go 250 kilometers an hour? We can, but trains still won't go 250 miles an hour because I can't, we don't have conditions for that. I want to say that, in my deep belief, we have quite a throat in strawberries entered the application of the Bologna Declaration, even though we had to be aware of the fact that education, so high education, has been ruined for decades, that now generations have been coming in and out of schools for half an hour, that many things need to be changed both in the material and professional position of educational institutions, and then we can compete with Europe. In doing so, you know, a serious number of European countries, including some members of the European Union, have serious reserves in relation to the Bologna Declaration. I think that even though she's generally positive, we need to see where we are. We have a lot to do to apply something like this in our education. If there's something that's terribly inert, it's just an education. A good move today in education will bring some improvement in 10 years. Also, a bad move in education also brings, let me say, a loss often in ten years. We only started paying half of the '80s for the Swiss troops in the '70s. One totalitarian regime, in which we lived after World War II, took over 25 years to destroy an otherwise brilliant education system, is now little to talk about, which the Kingdom of Yugoslavia had before World War II. I can tell you that I happened to have math problems, because I'm a mathematician by profession, who went to a major high school high school in pleasure high school in 1938. I assure you, you shouldn't give those assignments to graduation today because children wouldn't solve them. In other words, I don't think education and education at all is something that political parties need to overstretchedly break their hands. I guess it's in everyone's best interest to make such an education to put forth a great deal of effort, effort, money, whatever you want, so that some of our children, our grandkids, our grandkids, we can provide the offspring with what's most important we can provide them with, which is education. But me, that story, in this case about the Bologna Declaration, but some other stories remind me a little bit of those ski action after World War II, some horror systems, so we'll all swear whether it's now called the Bologna Declaration or if it's called something else, we'll all swear and God forbid it's against something, we'll be right on the pillar of shame. In fact, we need to think very carefully about every move, especially in the area of education, which we're pulling, so we don't come into a situation like this to put out the fire, there's more of these fires, as much as you want. They're prescribed, I'm just stating what's going on, I accidentally heard it the other day in college, the conditions high school institutions can arrange for doctoral studies. What's going on, there's a deadline, not just for football players, there's also for teachers. Teachers are bought for a month, just to get a grip so they can organize doctoral studies. It's happening, everybody knows it, and we need to know it. There are many examples like this, and you know, if we want to do something really smart and not come into a situation anymore that we have to discuss whether it's 60, 40, 42 or not, but if we really invest all of our energy, brains, money, whatever you want in our children's education, then we have to act a little differently in all of this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3757	The word has been given by MP Mile Ilic, followed by MP Nenad Prokic, and thus we returned to the debate according to statements for the word in the principled search, following the presentation of authorised representatives or president of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have the impression that our society has not been prepared enough to implement the Bologna Declaration, that good social conditions for its successful implementation have not previously been created and that there are a lot of problems in the implementation and implementation of the Law on Higher Education. On the other hand, it seems to me that neither students nor a good number of teachers, nor a number of college executives properly understood the intensities of the Bologna Declaration and the Law on Higher Education and that therefore there were many difficulties in the practical application of the Law on Higher Education. I also have the impression that many solutions in the Law on Higher Education are not properly defined, so in the application of this law there are many problems with the consequences that are not good. That is why it is good that the Ministry of Education has initiated this change of law, primarily because of students, but also because of their families, because otherwise they would have a lot of negative consequences for the material and social position of student families, but also for the status of the students themselves. But the Law on Higher Education obviously requires more important changes than those proposed, so it is necessary to bring them in line with the Constitution of Serbia, as the minister of education suggested. I won't talk about the inadequate position of university workers tonight, I won't talk about inadequate student standards, I won't talk about maybe strict study regime, I won't talk about problems in the accreditation process, so all this can be talked about, but I am convinced that the current Ministry of Education in all these sectors will achieve better results than all previous ministries. The students of the University of Nisk, whose professor I am, and the authorities of the University of Nisk, had a more radical approach than what was proposed in the amendments to the law, but in any case the proposed legal solutions are acceptable to us. With all this in mind, given this time and today's debate, I would like to say in the end that the SPS-JS parliamentary group has supported this law, that it will vote for amendments to this law, with the confidence that such transitional solutions should be an exception and that perhaps in the context of a new law on higher education should take account of its enforceability in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3759	The word has a folk MP, Nenad Prokic. After that, the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3760	The respected presidency, respected Minister Obradovic, representatives of the government, respected colleagues, I think that you, Mr. Obradovic, are in the most important place for Serbia's future and I have no doubt that you will certainly do well. Any introduction of order into something that has failed for so many years is welcome and we will surely support it. I think that in socialism our schooling was very good, and it was really good under Tito, as Mr. Shami said, I believe that in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia it was also good, but since I teach at two state schools I know what it was like when I was a student and I know what it's like now when I'm a professor, and these are conditions that are incomparable and it's high time that our country is about the most important area for its future to do what it can do the most right now. The Bologna Declaration is good because it's the introduction of order. In my university, I notice that the greatest effort to adopt it is to keep it the same, and that is something that is obviously a successful process at Belgrade's universities for the time being. I think that when we have colleges of 700-800 years, we probably won't be able to resort to any innovations imported from Europe, but we still can't afford something like that at this time. To be compatible with the world, we have to introduce it. In art schools, it looks even weaker than it looks, but the introduction of order is certainly through the Bologna Declaration very well. Today, people in Europe, young people, speak three or four languages, have modern education, very effective, and that is certainly something that has become a standard. Our students are really behind and they can't measure with them, they don't speak so many languages, they can't even travel. What I'm noticing, what's my experience, is that from the old man, what was the worst, they're too many programs. The students are very burdened by a bunch of unnecessary things, and what was good about that system, one systematicity, seriousness, it's, of course, abandoned, and I hope that we will be back soon, not lowering the criteria, but throwing unnecessary things out of what today burdens our education. Corruption in my colleges is not found, at least so far, there is, on the other hand, not our specialty, there is this in all countries where corruption is more than normal for one European state at the moment, in Croatia and other countries, but it is more dangerous in school than anywhere else, because that is how the virus is transmitted to the future. Automaticly, if we tolerate her today, that virus will be found dormant in 20-30 years in the head of some smart man who's gonna wake up that virus and do something in society that shouldn't. I hope it is quite clear that we will support the amendments and additions to this law in the system of education and give all the necessary support to efforts to improve the situation in it, and therefore also in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3761	The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, followed by Parliament MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3762	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government has submitted to the National Assembly for the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. On 14 September, the Minister of Education said he expects parliament to show understanding and allow amendments to the Law on Higher Education to be passed on time, given that the conditions of enrolment next year should be regulated during October, as colleges then also hold an over-semester entry. I will quote what the minister said: "This creates the conditions for one regular, legal way to create conditions for the largest number of students to enter next year. "We all have an interest in doing so and I don't think there will be any difference between the government and the opposition. I must remind you that the SRS has repeatedly pointed out the harmfulness of applying the applicable Higher Education Act based on the application of the Bologna Declaration. But the law is passed and high education is now being conducted through it. However, its application has already brought major problems to students in this school year. Most students financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget cannot enter next year, as they have not achieved the required number of ESP points, which speaks of the lack of coherence of the study programme and the scope of the studies. The proposed amendments and additions provide for a reduction from 60 points to 42 in school 2007/2008. Year and then gradually increase to 48 in school 2008/2009. Year and 54 in 2009/2010 A year. After that, it will be 60 again, as it stands in law today. In no case can we say that the problem with students is that they don't learn, they don't meet pre-examination obligations and they don't try to pass exams. They're victims of a poor education system. Most now expect the proposed amendments and additions to the law to be adopted and thus to reduce the number of points needed to enter next year, a prerequisite for their funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, the achievement of the right to accommodation in student homes and scholarships. We all know what this means for students themselves and their families, we know that college fees at higher education institutions are too high and that many smart and good students would give up their studies if they didn't enroll in the next year's studies and not be financed from the budget. When a law currently in force was passed, the SRS warned that the law was based on the Bologna Declaration a poor solution to the higher education system. The damage done to this country during unfair privatisation, the destruction of factories and the entire economy can one day be compensated, but the damage to the application of this law is irreparable. The biggest tragedy of this society is that the failed generations of students will not be able to return. What Stipe Shuvar did in his time with a secondary education, now makes the Bologna Declaration with a higher education. It is intended to produce generations of very narrow education instead of recognised top experts coming out of our universities to make it easier to manipulate them. The SRS has already, and is now in favour, to pass a law on higher education that would give equal chances to all who want to study, so those students who see themselves as intellectuals are mastering the programme, their studies would be financed from budget funds. Those other students who want that status to last longer than expected, have the right to generate costs for their parents related to overpriced tuition and everything that follows the studies. In a good higher education system, almost 70,000 students would certainly not be waiting for these changes and additions to enroll next year's studies, be financed by budget funds and exercise the right to accommodation in student homes and the right to scholarships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3763	The People's Messenger Zoran Ostojić has the word, and after him, the MP of the people, Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3764	Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that education is best noted that in these eight years, the transition in Serbia has failed and has been stopped. We remember the reform initiated by the government of Zoran Djindjic and remember that after that, everything is objectively concerned. It was attempted drastically with a minister who challenged Darwin's theory. Afterwards, we had a minister who was more of an entrepreneur, and then we had a minister who dealt with Kosovo and we are where we are. It is clear that this is not a party and party issue, and it is also clear that it is in some way civil or ultimately political. We have here speeches against the Bologna Declaration of those who like to call themselves Eurosceptics, we liberals are Eurorealists, unlike those who call themselves Europhiles, but that's our destiny and that's our future. Children who learn, they will lead this country to globalization in the global world, in global Europe and simply the fact that it is learning to drive in this country to pass, not to know that it is driving and being safe for itself and others, and that unfortunately for what happened back five years it is learning to pass years and to complete studies, and not to learn, it is proof of how much we have fallen. It's not those who are now waiting for our decision that are to blame for it, it's what I said, politics, all of us or those who have decided. That's why we're voting for this law, it's not a dispute, because the students who are waiting for our decision are not guilty. We were a little surprised by the speed this point took on the agenda. We have not submitted any amendments and I am taking this opportunity, Mr. Minister, to draw your attention to a illogicality which, because the debate has begun, may be, if a mistake, corrected by the Government or by the Committee, and if it is not a mistake, if it is a intention, then you will have to explain to the students who are damaged. I'm talking about students enrolled in the third year. Now it's minimum 42, last year the minimum was 37, which means in those two years whoever collected 79 points will be able to enter in the third year. What about first-year students who got 60 points, and now they make 41? They'll have 101 points, and they'll fall off the budget. So, at 79 points in two years, it's going to stay on the budget for the third year, and with 101 points, it's going to fall off the budget. One hundred points is kind of a maximum, but I think maybe a better solution, just because some can be damaged, we don't know what the number is, but if that's a mistake, correct, if it isn't, you're going to have to explain to those people who in two years have 100 points and fall from the budget. Perhaps there was a solution, which in the first two years of winning 79, means cumulatively to add, it remains in the third one on the budget. Maybe that's the solution. As it says in the law, it really puts some students in a situation that will have more than 79, but now less than 42, to fall off the budget. Well, then we didn't add up well. In any case, this is our suggestion, and since this point has come somewhat faster, this account has been carried out by your colleague, a member of the LDP Political Council and former assistant minister, Mrs Turajlic, you will know better whether this is a mistake or intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3765	The word is a folk letter from Radica Jocic, followed by the Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3766	I ask the chairman to ask Mr. Bajatovic to at least respect Mr. Minister from his party if possible and allow us to address him. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to welcome Mr. Minister of Education, because before I became an MP for 20 years I spent in education, from primary to high school, and I will always see myself as a teacher, because I think it is one of the most beautiful and honorable interests, and I think that Mr. Obradović, if he could choose the resort, could not have chosen better, but at the same time it is a portfolio full of problems to overcome because the situation in our entire school is very difficult. Starting with the problems of small rural schools where there are fewer and fewer students, through textbooks that are harder to prepare, through school buildings that are getting older and harder to maintain, through school trips that are becoming more difficult and more complicated to organize, and that none of us forget that for our children and all schools it is still true that it is from cradle to grave the most beautiful school age. And students are kind of students, and we here have to make sure that their time of study is a better part of life. As for the Law on Higher Education, ever since it was adopted, the SRS has sharply criticised and pointed to the consequences we are facing right now. You can't, gentlemen, just as you can think of it, and only for the purpose of European integration. Before that, many conditions must be met to succeed, and if that does not happen, then the results are catastrophic, as well as the results of the application of this Bologna Declaration, which is so euphorically adopted, as if all the problems will be solved. The last governments, from 2000 to today, have decided that what was good in this country has been completely ruined. If anything was right before 2000, it was a system of education. He made it possible for our high school graduates to be respected and recognized everywhere in the world. Their ability has not been questioned by the most invaluable institutes that have preceded many scientific disciplines. I hope you will agree with this, Mr. Minister. But then when the new democratic governments took up their education jobs, then his sunroof began. I can't mention here, even though it's about high school, entrance exams for high school, which are so disillusioned by students getting tests and solutions in advance, in February, so they ignore everything other than questions and answers. I pointed out this on purpose because this, as well as these proposed changes, all in this context is the desire of the current authorities towards the EU and because the EU also gets obedient, European-oriented personnel in this area, and what level of their knowledge is no longer concerned. He is concerned that the level of points, which are otherwise obtained through the production of seminar works, copying from literature, from the Internet, etc., with the very physical presence in lectures, is getting smaller. At the same time, the number of higher and higher schools, both private and state-run, is increasing, as well as scholarships to most of these schools. Are we going to study only those who have to pay for more expensive schooling? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the minister that, in addition to these changes in the Law on Higher Education, the law should include a provision that teachers can't knock out students on exams because they didn't buy the script they printed, by not even copying out of the books of prominent experts, but by photocopying certain chapters. Just one simple example. Whichever professor, for example, teaches the botanist, the family of roses will have to belong to dioctiledones of plants, and those of hidden loins, etc. And what does it matter what books or scripts are taught from? Mr. Minister, a lot more changes and additions need to be adopted in order to bring one bad law to a good place at the beginning. Although the SRS will not vote in favour of this bill, God help you with the difficult task you have accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3767	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3768	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, but above all respected citizens of Serbia, the Democratic Party and the coalition for European Serbia will strongly support the adoption of this law. We will vote for this law. I've been flooded with phone calls these days, and you've had the opportunity to see in the press a great deal of concern from the representatives of the student organisations who even announced the protests unless this law was passed in the Republic Parliament. Here, both Serbian citizens and those parents who have children in college, but above all I tell students who represent the future of this country - there is no need to protest, prepare good exams, the test deadline is in progress, the coalition for European Serbia and most MPs will vote for this law and it will be adopted within the foreseen deadline, because we aim to have a large majority of students enroll in the next year's study. The DS pays great attention to the education and reform system of education, but also to the material position of the university. If we take an example, say, of the Faculty of Political Sciences, which annually enrolls 135 students each year, if we increase the possibility of students entering next year, the state must also take care of the material position of the university, because colleges find it difficult to give up those rights that they consider to have voted, which are some of their elected rights, and especially if it concerns the material position, because a number of universities are generously funded from the tuitions that they are. Of course, there's something else I have to mention. I studied 20 years ago, and it was a different system of college studies. At that time, it was necessary to give a certain number of exams for the condition, and today there is a system for the European system of transfer points. The system is quite different, however, we need to catch up with Europe and we need to produce in college, yes, for those who do not believe, and to adapt our education system to the European system of education. Finally, I have to say, I have been called by representatives of the student parliament of a number of university organisations, a number of NGOs, a number of organisations dealing with the protection of student rights and student issues. I used to participate in student protests and belong to an organization that came out of a student protest. I don't think there's any need for students to protest anymore, I think we live in a regulated system of values, when in colleges we produce those who will be the future of this country and to whom the future of this country belongs. And if we want to invest in the future, I urge you to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3769	The word has been made by MP Nikola Savic, a follow-up MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3770	Ladies and gentlemen, when the word "high education" is mentioned, the first association that appears among all of us who work in education and all of Serbia's citizens is the Bologna Declaration. What's really a Bologna declaration no one knows alive. All of them again have their first association in this sense, Bologna is a city in Italy, and about that knowledge of the Bologna Declaration ends. Someone in our higher education system gave us this Bologna Declaration, the Bologna Declaration is something and, what is today a trend in the world, there knowledge seems to be just falling out of the sky, enough to mention that word and about a man or someone might think that he became immediately an academic citizen. What this Bologna Declaration presents is that it needs to ensure an increase in study efficiency, but when we draw the line, when we do one analysis, we'll see that this study efficiency is not achieved, but also how it's lost to the quality of the studies themselves, I can also say on the knowledge quantum. At the time I studied, and I believe many of you from the O.R., it seems to me that the level of acquired knowledge and the quality of finished students was higher, but well, that's an individual assessment, let's leave it to some time to judge in all this. I can tell you that prestigious universities in the world avoid applying the Bologna Declaration. What do they need it for? Simplely, the Bologna Declaration is for the poor. Here, we all know there's a huge number of universities in America, and we could do some grading of those universities by quality. We know that there are the most prestigious, the most qualitative, who have given a huge number of top scientists and a huge number of Nobels, but we also know that there are universities in that same America that give a modest level of knowledge to their students. I can even think of this moment that at one such humble university, the American was also studied by their current president George Bush, because he is well known for being a man of modest knowledge. Here, I'll remind you, when I mentioned his name, on a pearl, so to speak, from his biography, when recently a year ago the President of Brazil came to visit, George Bush asked him -- show me on the geographical map where your country is? When this man did it, he saw who he was dealing with, George Bush answered him -- God forbid, you're really one big country and we're relatively close country, we're thinking geographically. In serious countries, where there is a serious education system, there is a serious selection of students, especially talented students, to give such students quality knowledge at high-quality universities because they are carriers of both business and any other changes. Unfortunately, though, we don't have them, we all go to the same basket, we all go to Bologna today, and we have the best ones, and we have them, and we have something to brag about, and we have those who barely enroll in some colleges, just because there's room left in the budget and that certain teachers have classes and norms. So, higher education is in a serious crisis. I won't be long, one piece of information. Today every other student in the state of Serbia is studying management, and we all know that in the state of Serbia almost nothing works, there is no production, and if this management is a determination to sell something, some trade, then I really don't know what these students are going to do and who they're going to sell to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3771	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3772	Ladies and gentlemen, given that higher education reforms are mentioned several times in the light of the law, I think the Ministry should pay attention to the following facts. One, a promotion for teachers, as well as doctoral topics at private universities, should pass through a central independent commission or commission within the university community. The reason is that the criteria at public and other universities are very loose. In this regard, since private universities have many personnel that first appear in higher education institutions, at least for the high calling of emeritus should set the lower limit of previous pedagogical experience. Excessive administration about monitoring students' work during the semester should be reduced. This is particularly important for universities that enroll a large number of students in the first year of study, where it is almost impossible to set up quality follow-up for each student, and teachers waste a lot of time on administrative work. It should be impossible for the graduate students of a university to enroll in doctoral or specialist studies at a university that is not parent for their primary academic education. You saw Dr. Vojislav Seselj's trial as one of the witnesses of an indictment that even the court council dismissed as an expert. It's about Anthony Obershall, who was presented as a doctor of sociology, even though he graduated from physics school. From the cross-examination of Dr. Vojislav Seselj, you could see that this so-called Professor Obershal is a low-level sociology, nor does physics. Therefore, at all costs, it is necessary to avoid such gaps in education that occur in Western systems. So blind copying of European forms, conventions and laws doesn't always have to be good, at the very least we need to adapt them to our conditions. The Bologne Convention is good in the conditions of applying to smaller universities that enroll a small number of students, who mainly encourage from extremely wealthy families who are currently funding the work of these institutions. In our terms, she's highly sustainable. Applyed unconditionally goes to harm both students and quality of higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3773	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3774	As for the gentleman, he was probably informed by all the institutions, only probably not yet by NGOs about this law. Listening to all the speakers who have been exposed to this law today, they have forgotten something, most importantly, that after the five-eyed revolution, education in Serbia was destroyed and the appointment of Minister Gaša Knezevic. At that time, a great deal began with the political inexperiences of the university, where teachers of the profession and science had to leave colleges because they were not politically alike. It also happened with one of the greatest minds, which is with Professor Dr Vojislav Seselj. In fact, in his book, "Political and intellectual freak Gašo Knezevic", he described all the events that took place after the five-octobaric coup. But what's most important is that this erosion is continued both in primary, secondary, and higher education. It has been continued for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, which was the goal of exceedingly forgetting the history of Serbia, because those who do not have their past do not have their own future. You know very well that our ancestors, to call them that, the mothers were still singing in their cradles their children's patriotic songs, because even then they wanted their children to instill patriotism and patriotism, what today adorns the SRS and what you can hear from today's greatest hero today, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Ladies and gentlemen, as a businessman who has worked for 30 years in the economy, I must tell you that criminal privatisation has destroyed these scientific institutes that were in these businesses, in factories. It was, in fact, the basis for the creation of experts that we were proud of not only in Europe but also in the world. You can't know that, because a large number of you first started working here in the Assembly. It's important that you're politically alike, not that you have knowledge and expertise, where you should have come from. Ladies and gentlemen, this criminal privatisation led to the fall itself, so to speak, intellectual productivity, because privates no longer looked at quality, expertise, but watched as much as they could and could produce fake goods that would be found on the Serbian market today. What's painful is that this trade lobby was importing everything and everything. Today, unfortunately, Serbia is a dump of the European technological system and machines that are being thrown into Europe today, i.e. the EU, in which this left hand side, and which has its hands on those tails that want to enter Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I think today's students have actually been denied in two fields. They were denied precisely because of this expertise, and they were also denied because of materiality. You're, like, lying to them and saying that you're still gonna make it possible for each and every one of them to go to school today. Do you know how parents in Serbia support their children in college today? They don't support them because companies don't work, businesses don't work, and agriculture is destroyed, because you've destroyed one of the greatest heroes of today, it's workers and peasants, because today there are no workers left, there's just a peasant left, who you're deep and you're destroying. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been particularly erosion in legal science. You can take a good look at this in these new events that happened here in the Assembly, where there was a withdrawal of the SRS mandate, where one waste, by-product, actually declared itself a political party, and in fact there are no political parties, I must say, because they stole the mandates from one of the largest political parties -- the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3775	The People's Messenger, Paja Momcilov, has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, today we have again one of the typical DOS laws on the agenda, almost never had it, so just don't forget that it's one of the essential features of DOS government. In fact, it's a law that can be freely called reparative law. That law only has three members. What's he got to do? He's tasked with correcting the nebulism of a previous DOS law. If we look at the legislation that regulated higher education, we will remember that there was one law in 98, which was replaced during the DOS government in 2002, and then the one that was supposed to be the crown, which was supposed to be the law over the laws, came in August 2005. What was the feature of that law, what did he include as a newspaper? He's involved us in the Bologna system. On the other hand, he introduced a system of accreditation, which was to be revived in these areas, introduced the National Council of Higher Education, which was supposed to be an operational body that needed to regulate many problems in a complex higher education system. I'm not talking about the importance of higher education, we know that well. In 2006, we had over 229,000 students enrolled. There were 56% of female students at the time and 48% were on the budget, and 52% of our students had to pay that year in order to be able to study. What the financial side of the problem looks like, when we look at the income of our country's citizens, I don't need to feel it right now, it's clear to you, and then you see the first problem young citizens face if they want to get a higher education. In 2007, we separated 10 billion from the budget for higher education, as far as I know, that's one-sixth of the total funding for all education. This comes in about 0.7% of gross national income. Whether that's enough or not, you'll appreciate it yourself. I wouldn't go into that, because that's not the problem. Here someone came out and said that we from the international community were highly rated. Let's get in line. We agreed in Berlin in 2003 to accept Bologna as a system and to install it into our legislation. At the 2005 Bern conference, the rating was 2.2. We haven't passed the law yet that year, we haven't installed what we were asked to do. Only BiH and Andorra were behind us. Two years later, in London, the Council of Europe gave an estimate of about four, as I recall. I'm asking you now, next year in April, when you get your grade back, what grade will you get? I predict 2.5 to the top of my head, and I guess I'll be able to explain to you why I think something like that is going to happen. What is devastating for the system and what is important for the matter we are discussing today, we have an inefficient system. Why ineffective? Because of all those who enroll, number one, 45% never finish and give up their studies. It's a figure of thought that requires clear answers. On the other hand, if you watch students rebuild the year, the first year restores 26.7 students, the second year 45.8% students, the third year 40.5th year 10.8% students. You see what a passing point is in years. Why is that? In his opening statement, the minister himself said that these amendments to the law are precisely driven by this low passage that goes up to 30% and that is unacceptable. However, will only such cosmetic changes and downsizing the number of points succeed in bringing the system into order? Absolutely not, and it would be far better if the ministry had reached out to more complex instruments and appliances that it would want to cure obviously affected higher education. What's the main problem that's certainly being imposed, shouldn't even be some special expert, shouldn't be a university worker, and we've heard here a few people working at the university, so we can see where the problems are. If you compare only the number of teachers, about 7,700 of them, to this number of about 250,000 students, you have that 18 students have one teacher. Do you think you can do quality class? To name one, like this, who will be quite close to Mr. Secretary, a private college, where he happens to work, 20 and a few thousand students and eighty teachers. What do you think that quality of teaching is? Is that Europe? Is it Bologna and can it survive? It's not a personal question for you, it's very accurate data, you're going to say correct, and I'm going to give the source where I got this from. ð The basic problem is that students are obviously overloaded. Someone has already said here from the predecessors that in our schools, Bologna lives formally and that apparently new programs have been brought in, but the contents remain exactly the same as the volume required by students. The students can't handle this, and you're blowing one balloon just and the balloon has to break. It's a shame that only students suffer the damage. Those who are responsible for this, headed by the Ministry and by the perpetrators, teachers, do not suffer any sanctions. In these legal solutions of yours, there is no way to fix anything in a machine that is not well done and then to get better results, to the joy of both students and those dedicated to them professionally, teachers and associates. Let me finish my presentation. We absolutely have to be into accepting this, absolutely we can't let college experience through programs that are inadequate and there's still a bunch of other problems, we won't talk about textbooks, we won't talk about how teachers at lectures literally read from word to word textbooks. We're not going to talk about how average college college is for nine years, and we're saying that there's a modern, modern college today, and you guys keep your mouth shut, deal with it. There are two things I want to say, why I think you're getting a two next year, maybe two and a half grades. You were obliged to apply Bologna, you applied. You've started accreditation. You have to finish the accreditation by 2010 or 2011, I don't know exactly. You gave the higher schools first to go into accreditation, 50% didn't get into high school accreditation. When will it be? Of those who entered the accreditation, almost 50%, according to me known data, did not receive accreditation. When will it be? Why didn't they get it? How are you going to get a transitional grade out of it? That's the first problem. The worse problem is, you are obliged when you agreed to be in Berlin in 2003 to go to Bologna to also access the development of something called the National Qualifications Framework. Where's your national qualification framework? I ask you, what is the national qualification framework? It contains who's going to study, how much, which is why, why, what does it say you're looking for work, what social needs say. How many students does it take? If you brought it in, and you were obliged to bring it in first of all, then we'd have a healthier situation, then our children wouldn't be exposed to the kind of maltretman they're exposed to right now. Who was that supposed to bring? We have a national body. What's the national body doing? What's the National College Conference doing? They fight and live centers at these conferences. When you approach such a meeting and hear what is said there, then the Assembly has no reason to feel that something is worse than high-academic forums where these things need to be discussed. You didn't do anything on the national framework, and you owed it. That's why you get two, two and a half at the most. Those two and a half will be, you're doing your best for Bologna, you're going bad. Here, you started credentials, you're not doing well, but you're still trying and you have a transitional grade. Only so will the MPs of the SRS absolutely support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3777	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3778	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I assume you have been informed that the government of Montenegro has recognised the independence of KIM. I think we, if we keep working tomorrow, and we should, more important than that, we can't have on the agenda. The situation is very serious not only after the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, but it is very difficult to defend the story that Kosovo and Metohija cannot gain independence if the country in which most citizens belonging to the Serb people, the vast majority of them belong to the Serbian Orthodox Church, said KIM can gain independence. The issue of our future relations with Montenegro is raised. The question arises as to the fate of the Serbian people in Montenegro, which will be absolutely against his country's recognition of KIM independence. It is a question of our constitutional obligation to protect Serbs who do not live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to help them exercise all their rights and to develop their own consciousness and their will to live in a country worthy of life for every citizen and for members of the Serb people. I don't mention Macedonia, which has also done so, in which you have one part of the large, Skopje-Montenegro, in which Serbs live. Please make sure that tomorrow the foreign minister, the Prime Minister, appears at the National Assembly session, to bring us the adopted package of measures. I remind you that they have already returned the ambassadors to countries that have previously recognised the independence of KIM, to report here what they have done, and at least once to ask us if we agree. I ask the ruling majority's MPs to understand how serious the situation is, to realize that yesterday's story of victory at the General Assembly, and in the fight against that victory America didn't participate at all, she was waiting for us in that court, to realize that it wasn't victory, perhaps Pir's victory, perhaps just one battle won. If Montenegro has entered the story of recognition of independence, it knows what will happen at the International Court of Justice. It will justify itself to its citizens by asking you to make the International Court of Justice a final arbitration over whether KIM can gain independence or not. Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I understand that sometimes there are obstructions that don't make any sense, but imagine now a parliamentary group that has done no sense so far to obstruct Serbia's most important topic. We are prepared to help this session take place, and we are prepared and not to hold a session unless the National Assembly decides tomorrow as to what our relations will be in the future with Montenegro, with property in Montenegro, with citizens, relations, connectivity, interactions, as you call it. The situation is really very serious. All those who have admitted so far could not say that they were a Serbian state, that they were a Serbian state, so they were not. At this time, a Serbian state, one Serbian state's right or one quasin state has recognised the independence of KIM, directly one part of Serbia's life condemned to live in a country that has admitted that another new state can exist in the queen, in Serbia. There's a lot of patriots among you. This isn't a topic where you could push your patriotism a little bit. This is a subject where patriotism is manifested, no matter who the political party belongs to.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3779	Thank you. I accept the suggestion. I will make an effort to see what moves the government and the resolution ministry are planning and in the morning, when we begin the session, you will be informed of the deal we make. So, when this session is over tonight, I'll get in touch with the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, and tomorrow morning you'll have information. You will, please, because others probably want the same thing, to take part using the Rules of Procedure on this very serious point. He has the word Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3780	Dear Presidents, fellow Members of Parliament, citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, I believe, Madam President, that at this difficult moment in Serbian history, you will allow me not to call on a member of the Rules of Procedure because nothing has been broken, I just want to say on behalf of New Serbia, and I think on behalf of many Serbian citizens -- that we have all been growing, now I see in vain hope, in my heart, in the depth of my heart, that this will not happen. He could have admitted the whole world to the so-called. An independent state in Kosovo would not be so difficult for us, but rather for Montenegro. But we firmly believe that it wasn't Montenegro. It was done by an unnatural government led by a man who was being blackmailed. I want to tell our countrymen in Montenegro -- fight, brothers, mother Serbia will be with you. This is the most shameful act in Montenegro's history. All members of the government of Montenegro will forever be placed on the pillar of shame as the greatest traitors since the Kosovo battle until today. As for the members of New Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, we expect the government to tell Serbia's citizens what it is ready to do, even before it is particularly difficult for us -- that the Serbian government's president was in Montenegro a few days ago. We don't want to say anything bad about this process, maybe he didn't know what was coming, but we find it hard that the Serbian government president was in Montenegro a few days ago. As for members of New Serbia and all of our voters, all members of the government of Montenegro are not safe on the ground of the country of Serbia and in the sky of Serbia from this moment on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3781	There's Mrs. Pop-Lazic's word, according to the Rules of Procedure as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3782	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, on behalf of the SRS, I express that opinion that only those who are politically completely ignorant could go out for this speaker and express their concern and surprise that something like this happened. So, we all expected from Montenegro that this would happen. We may have hoped it would not happen, because it is a large Serbian national corps living in that country, but Serbia has been living and in crisis since the 1990s. Our country was getting smaller and smaller. First of all, let's ask ourselves, who broke our nation's SFRJ, so who's SRJ? How did Montenegro leave Serbia-Montenegro's state union, who signed what? So this was one normal flow that Montenegro was going to, according to the order of those by which it came out of the community from the common state. Today, the government is making a decision to return ambassadors to countries that have recognised, meanwhile, from a unilateral declaration of independence for Kosovo and Metohija, probably knowing that just today Montenegro will recognise Kosovo and Metohija. We are taught by the experience that nothing happens in Serbia, that dates are also very carefully selected for certain events. That's how this government decision with the decision of Montenegro coincides. Thus, Mr Nikolic also chose the worst day possible to form his party, October 21st, and announced a big festival, the day when Serbs still cry for those children who died in his forests, where he lives. So no one here in these areas who listens to the NATO Pact, Solana, who gets money from him to break this country's national corps, is free to do what he might think he should do, but only what he's being ordered to do, and it's always at the expense of the Serbian national interest. Now, Madam Chairman, you have entered this hall together with Mr Nikolic, knowing that he will come out for this pay phone to tell us this important news, and you have missed the opportunity to inform, on behalf of Parliament, the MPs who are sitting here, who may not have been informed of it and that you are here to bring the news. So you agreed and passed it on to Mr Nikolic -- for God's sake, he is very concerned about the future of this country and what Montenegro has done. Meanwhile, what was he doing -- from that same Solana, the NATO Pact, received huge money to mix around Serbia here and break the Serbian national Corps?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3783	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, this is not the time to analyze your contemplations. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I have to react at this extremely difficult moment for the Serbian people, both in Serbia and Montenegro, because of the fact that by abuse of the pay phone and the presence of a man in the National Assembly, whom in the Serbian Bar and in every place in Montenegro say he is a relative and a traitor, he abuses his presence and speaks of something he has never personally been interested in. It is political if it is necessary to come out at such a dramatic and really difficult time to say it, and that it is an immoral and truly hypocrisis of the highest possible degree tells the fact that we Serbian radicals, we Seseljevci, pointed to what happened and warned and Montenegrin separatist leadership of our presence there. As a member of the SRS all last year, along with one of my colleagues, at the end of some of my former colleagues, but not with this person who was behind the pay phone, I held many stands in the cities of Montenegro under the slogan - Freedom of Seselj. Now one of you will think that the stands were dedicated only to the care and defense of our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj. No, at a time when I, like other associates, agreed to go there and maintain those stands, our basic intensity was to raise the spirit of the Serbian people. A year after the Separatist referendum and the separation of Serbia's Montenegro from its Serbian mother, our mission was to fill through these stands, Slobodana Seselja, with really full halls in cities, where this may not have been expected, such as Bar, so full of halls of the Assembly, and concerned Serbs, and exiled Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija told us that we had to react and warn the regime of Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party that it would come day and that it would happen. This summer, not using time for vacations as much as visiting my family and, above all, friends, I spent a few days in Serbia's Montenegro. What I've come across is an open fear, primarily of young people. So I am also some, who are your friends and relatives, I think of you who support this regime and have not objected and have not warned in the time of Milo Djukanovic, Rocen and the rest of the Separatist brothers, that they are not doing so and that we must protect our people. So that's how I met some of your acquaintances, relatives and friends, which I told you in private. These are young people, Serbian youth, children, children who want to live there, young people who have their own families and who tie their future to their homeland, which is Serbia's Montenegro. They expected parliament from here to clearly and unequivocally send a message through the resolution, through what we Serbian radicals have called -- a national strategy for the survival of Serbs in Serbia's Montenegro. Who went just one step further -- Serbian radicals in Montenegro, who, knowingly, insisted on it all, although our strength in institutional terms is not great there, we have one but great MP, young Bojan Strunjas, elected on the Serb list on which we are participating in Montenegro, and who have done, at least appeal to the separatist regime... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... That it does not work for our brothers there, that at least the ID cards are issued on Cyrillic, that that voice is heard and that we are indeed going, unlike some, I regret to say, other Serbian political parties, who have given up on that concept, and even said -- well, you know, maybe now is not the time, and it's not the time. Only we, the Serbian radicals, knew that it was during that time, and it was only us through what we were truly told by our consciousness and conscience that we wanted to help our brothers in Montenegro. Now we have to react very quickly. Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I cannot believe, indeed, that you are as an authentic representative of a state-owned and responsible party policy that you have never left, and as president of the Assembly you have allowed yourself, as one person with integrity and with such intelligence, that someone on your behalf is made public or that someone from the Assembly says what people have already heard through the media. I would also like to tell the citizens of Serbia, and to all Serbs in Montenegro, that we will persist in fighting for their interests, that we will never abandon them and that we will do everything by strengthening the Serbian idea here and our strength and, above all, by defeating those who have separated Montenegro from its queen, which is a victory that must be achieved in The Hague tribunal. Because if you look at the words of our great director, that I'm not talking about him right now, who's always talking about this danger that these global world powers have over Serbia and over the area where Serbs live, we, the SRS, saw tonight and our friends and acquaintances from the SPO, that the only power and defence for the nation and Serbs is the idea promoted by the SRS and our President Vojislav Seselj. I will end, not only with the freedom of Seselj, but freedom for all Serbs, both here and in Serbia, and in Republika Srpska and wherever our people live.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3785	I suppose Miss Jovanovic spoke on behalf of the SRS and therefore allowed her address to the parliament to last six minutes. Mr. Mirovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3786	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from an article. 104, 225 and 226. It is clear to all of us that Montenegro is a puppet state run by Washington. That is why, to say the least, it is inappropriate for a citizen, who publicly boasts about his encounters with the American ambassador and Mr. Miskovic, to give us guidance and teach us what to do in this difficult situation. So please make it under Art. 104. Maintain the dignity of the congregation. Also, based on an article. In 225 and 226, I want to get information, which is why the citizen Nikolic, who is being praised by a delegation of the European Commission in Belgrade, is talking about the situation in Montenegro. I remind you that the terms of the referendum in Montenegro have been prescribed by the EU administration. That is why 260 Serbs, who lived in Serbia and came from Montenegro, had no right to vote in the referendum, despite the Council of Europe resolution 1459 and the provisions of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3787	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3788	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have the right to be informed of everything. The inauguration of Milo Djukanovic as president of the Republic was attended by Dr Vojislav Seselj and Vuk Draskovic and no more than Serbian politicians. This Milo Djukanovic has today recognised KIM's independence. For the record, when you say I'm a mercenary, that I'm a servant, that I'm fulfilling other people's orders, imagine why I wasn't a mercenary at a time when the whole party accepted Milo Djukanovic's inauguration as president of the Republic. At the time, the party's president was Dr Vojislav Seselj and is now your party president, Dr Vojislav Seselj. Now you shouldn't mind. That's what your Milo did. Yeah, my Solana did it. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I don't know what's gotten into that much hate. With 200 million euros, I'd buy this building and then you'd vote as I say. Stop somewhere on a number. It started with four, so 10, now it's 200. So the moment is serious. There's no room for our debates, don't turn the subject. It doesn't matter if you're going to have 78 or 58, or 48 terms for the other day, it doesn't matter at all, whether I'm 20 or 5, or none, KIM's independence in Montenegro has been recognised. Now you remember some stories and some conflict. Now is not the time for Serbian conflicts, only if I'm a distraction. Here, we won't come to that session when you will vote for some resolution on the recognition of KIM by Montenegro. Here, I don't want to be here, so I don't bother you, there's nothing to complain about. Is it possible you don't have any more serious business right now? Is it possible that it didn't shake you? You're talking about a deal between the president of the assembly and me, so I haven't been out of the O.R. in two and a half hours, I haven't moved. No, I was in the defense committee session, so they told me what to do. In this party, you think with your own mind, people make their own decisions. This is a party of free people. I've never met more people in my life who are happier. You're the luckiest people in the world who've lost the most. You lost yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3789	Mr. Ruzic, then Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3790	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Minister, I'm advertising the violation of Article 104. If the Montenegrin government has not preserved its dignity tonight, I believe that this home should at least preserve its dignity and be defined in one serious way according to the fact that it is synchronised, not only by the government of Montenegro, but also by the government of Macedonia at the same time. independence of Kosovo. It won't help to figure out who was at whose inauguration and whether Dr. Seselj ever offered volunteers for the Gulf War. These are simply not topics that we can consider here today and tonight, but I believe that, like the Government of Serbia, in line with the Action Plan, has decided to return ambassadors to other countries, for the simple reason that diplomatic activity confirmed its purpose yesterday at the United Nations General Assembly, and so do we, MPs of the SPS, expect that the Serbian government will make an adequate move about this act, in line with the Action Plan, that this will also apply to diplomatic representatives of Montenegro and Macedonia in Belgrade. And what might hurt the most is the regime of Milo Djukanovic, not the people who do not most favour this insane decision by the government of Montenegro, that is to sort of subtract capital that has been moved from Montenegro, and very suspiciously, to the Terrace, here in Belgrade. I believe that this will be what will hurt them most, and I hope that both the ruling majority and the opposition will have a common position on the occasion, and I ask you that we are not talking about this issue through the assembling of political points, but in a very serious way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3791	Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3792	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I apologize that I was just sitting at the vice president's table using and answering my cell phone, but, believe me, in these 10 or 15 minutes, I don't even know how many messages and calls from troubled Serbs from Serbia's Montenegro, and I just want to say, Madam President, since you are primarily an honorable Serbian and patriot, that every time, and I know that's not your will, when citizens who are no longer MPs come out for a pay phone, every time someone in that way mentions what the SRS and our president is doing, as a woman who is primarily patriot and patriot, you react. It's pathetic and miserable what we just heard and I'd rather do it in a different way, because of my dignity and professorship. It's a sheath to react. If we Serbian radicals, who were ready to give our lives at any moment for every inch of the Serbian country, we'd visited, I mean, every hamlet, for ourselves as one crumb in an army of people like the SRS, then you can only imagine what these others did. I can say that I contributed, not only to Montenegro, but to raise my voice against what is called destroying the freedom of the Serbian people. But if someone who has already contributed directly to it today – although it did not make it difficult for him, you saw it last night, you will see it tonight, because it continues to break the anti-Serbian The Hague tribunal, there are questions, after all, about everything that has happened to us 20 years ago – if someone who is directly responsible for what Prof. Seselj couldn't call his defense team today, as he can't go back 10 days, go out for a pay phone, and in his cynical manner he says, first of all, with the expression of a person who paints that someone doesn't feel good in his skin and that he has a lot of hate, first of all according to professor. Seselj -- the bill, however, who you are, you don't matter -- says that we get some orders to say about the pay phone, then it's more than dishonest and immoral. Prof. Seselj is not only unable to contact Mr Krasic, Jerkovic, nor Mr Alexic, nor us who are members of the defence team, but is threatened to ban him from visiting both his wife and children and grandson. Indeed, first of all, because of this extremely difficult moment and because of the fact that my thoughts are directed towards friends and all those I know or don't know in Serbia's Montenegro, I want to read a message that came to me from Serbian radicals from Serbia's Montenegro: Milo Djukanovic, this separatist and this criminal, who serves the Shiptars, has abolished the possibility for us to call ourselves SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj. But the Shessels' radicals, who in the days of a failed coup and in all these days stood behind us and their legitimate president, sent me a message: "He whom NATO pays, let not the Serbs defend in Montenegro, let Nikolic be ashamed and ashamed, for he is with Mila hand in hand. Both are paid by Miskovic." That's the message I got from the radicals from Montenegro, the Seseljs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3793	Mr. Milan Avramovic, then Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 27, paragraph 3, which states that you must first look after the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 23(2), to make up the MPs rather than the political parties, other political organisations or groups of citizens, which have at least five MPs. So, I don't want to argue with some citizens here now, even though you made it possible for them, but for the sake of the public and the truth that this Serbian public needs to know, I have to say the following. You know that Boris Tadic first congratulated Milo Djukanovic on the results of a referendum that, and sparrows know, were stolen. You know that just a few days ago, Dodik, Serbian Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Miskovic of "Delta" opened a huge shopping centre in Montenegro itself along with Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic. You know that the only politician who was expelled from Montenegro was Vojislav Seselj, you know that his children are also banned from Montenegro today. It's ugly what you're doing, Mr. Nikolic, and that's how you talk about the man you've spent so many years with. I still have a few things to say for the public. Tomislav Nikolic is urged that in 97, Vojislav Seselj gave support to Milo Djukanovic. You know that there was then a big fight between the SRS and Slobodan Milosevic's regime and that there was then that famous saying -- and the enemy of my enemy was my friend, and that these were one of the basic reasons for supporting Milo Djukanovic. So, don't use and abuse this pay phone for your marketing, for your jam in Uncle Ljubino, so you're forced to make these moves. If you're having a hard time with that moment, ask yourself the first question when was the last time you were in Montenegro? When did you have a stands or did you participate in sending an SRS official to Montenegro? So I believe that the concern of all Serbs in all areas is great for a knife stuck in the back of Serbs by the separatist regime of Milo Djukanovic, but this moment you used for your party's campaign, not us. Don't rub our noses for that. I won't answer again, I don't want to make any noises with the citizens, and when the next item of the agenda comes, I'll say what I have.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3795	Thank you. Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3796	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would first of all like to address the ruling majority here and from this pay phone to send an appeal to our media, as well as to Minister and Prime Minister Cvetkovic, because, as I hear it, the RTS daily continues to talk and celebrate the diplomatic moves of our country. Apparently, our diplomatic moves are such that they didn't bear fruit. It is impossible that a few days ago, when Miskovic opened his opening in Montenegro, Cvetkovic, Dodik, Milo, no one knew what would happen today. It had to be known. How is Milo Djukanovic so strong to line up our Prime Minister Cvetkovic there to enhance his opening ceremony for his new shopping mall? Those are diplomatic moves. Give it to the Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary. So, in Serbia, it was known what could be expected of the separatist Montenegro, I mean the Mil Djukanovic regime, not that large Serb people who live in Montenegro, and you are from there, and I believe that it is not easy for you, and I believe that you also knew what was going to happen. Miskovic and his "Delta" lords both appear to be Serbia-Montenegro. It is known how much British capital there is in Delta, 70%, so you are now assessing who is conducting all political events both in Serbia and Montenegro. The great Miskovic and his "Delta", as children today say when you ask them where they live, you know what they say, what they call the state -- Kosovo and Metohija, which is under occupation and "Delta". That's what they call the rest of Serbia. Who allowed such a situation to be in this country? The ruling majority, power. Why? Either you're incompetent or you're closing your eyes, or the NATO Pact is really conducting what's going to happen here. I think it's clear to all of us that we're actually under occupation, but that's not what we're going to say in public. Let's just say for once -- they've occupied us, however you like, economically, politically, culturally, and indeed they are. Our values are no longer the same. Now that you say what the national interest is, you're going to say: EU entry, material wealth, and I don't know what. No one will say - traditional values, preservation of territory, sovereignty and many other values. Do you know, among other things, why Russia stood up? Is it because she was economically strong or because she believed and showed that she believed that she was no less valuable than the United States? (President: Time. ) As long as we bend our heads toward all those who want to beat us, we will suffer these consequences and these kind of fractures, not only in diplomacy, but in general. When we stand up, and when we say here -- we want a state like that and we're standing behind it, we're not doing anything... (President: Mrs. Pop-Lazic, speak 30 seconds longer. )......................................................................................................... I end up, we don't want to do anything that's to the harm of our people, then we'll start to recover. I'm sorry I overstepped this time. A big welcome to the Serbs in Montenegro and to know that we should never surrender, head upstairs, we must fight further.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3797	Mr. Aleksandar Jugovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3798	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I really don't know what context SPO and Vuk Draskovic are mentioned in, it's obvious that two factions of the same party have been talking here, in the same programming language, which I don't understand tonight, but I haven't understood it in 18 years. A very serious situation, not to speak hasty, should be chosen words, wait and find the best solution for both Serbs and Montenegrins, both in Serbia and Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3799	Thank you. Dr. Paja Momchilov, then Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure, I call for dignity. Mr Nikolic seems to have left, but I would ask him not to mention Vojislav Seselj for a simple reason: man is unable to answer him. If a man wants to see into the definition of what humanity is, there is also heroism, he doesn't have to be a hero, but humanity is to defend yourself from another. From who else? Mostly the one who's powerless, who can't answer you. Mr. Nikolic should have little morals, no use, no use or abuse Mr. Vojislav Seselj's name for moral reasons. It's clear that morality has both emotional and cognitive, and contative strength, I won't talk about it, psychologists know it well, and they'll be able to interpret these reactions well, which are already bordering on something that is psychopathology. Mr. Nikolic said there was no point in obstruction here. Something to tell Mr. Nikolic, to repeat what I've already said, there is no golden environment in politics between position and opposition. I also said what the London Parliament had already established as a good rule for the opposition in the eighteenth century – "nothing herdd, everything obsessing". That's right, Mr. Veterinar, you won't be able to hear it in your environment, you won't even be able to apply it, you might try it, now I'll translate it – never suggest it, always be against it. Here, for you Serbian, what parliament in the 17th century, English, has established and is today holding on to it. Karel Chapek wrote one piece that you all know - Good Private Schweik, there is talking about one party of moderate progress – asks the gentleman from the bench who is Chapek, I will let you read the work and the work is very educational, difficult to know – and there is this particular party the word SNS, which you keep promoting here, President of Parliament, and you allow it to be signed; so there is such a party. Why do you need to let them, I don't know. I said last night, maybe rhymes with SPS, SNS, very close. I also said that I might consider being signed by television by the future Pai Momchilov... Mr. Doctor, it's been three minutes. It's been three minutes. I'll just give you one sentence. When Mr. Nikolic came out here the day before yesterday for a pay phone to hold an EPP program on long lines in front of Ljubina, he spoke for four minutes and 24 seconds, 31% longer than needed. You listened hypnotically, you didn't interrupt him. Don't do that, and I'll finish anyway, and thank you for interrupting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3801	You spoke three minutes and 45 seconds. We're continuing the search in principle. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3802	I would have to point to one situation at the beginning, that this bill is being defended by Mr. Zarko Obradovic, and neither guilty nor due, because all the problems of this law occurred at a time when someone else was a minister. To be even more precise, at a time when he cheered and dressed the famous Gašo Knezevic. The people of law enforcement are well - known for applying the draft law in the making of one solution, and he applied it because he was sure that soon it would be the law, and it never became the law. That's the kind of man that teaches kids at law school. He was helped by people who were defined to destroy Serbia. It's about intellectual destruction of Serbia. Who are these, Serbia's Turajlic and the company, who concluded that state universities and state universities should destroy and create space for private universities? In the coalition struggle, some who cried out to students on the streets allegedly fighting for student rights, graduated from college in that rotten system and introduced almost mandatory fees. Now our youth, our students, can't even rebel. Why? Someone put it in their head that it was European to pay, but no one can convince their parents or give them the formula to provide funds for "free schooling", although high education is not free. Of course, there was also lost that thin criterion for talented and good students to continue schooling on the cost of the state and we got some new categories a few years ago, yuppie experts G17 plus, ministerial assistants, state secretaries, with some courses from Segedin, London and who knows where. Their expertise ended with a translation from Slovenian to Serbian, and a bad translation, so when someone goes to ask what kind of law that law is, then that expert says -- wait till I get the Slovenian version out, wait until I get the translation into Serbian, so that the error is in translation. Once upon a time, when most of us were in college, schooling was free, many were enrolled, many did not finish, but while they were in college they acquired some elementary education, unlike that sample of drunk who had just escaped. He didn't have the exclusive right to learn a good education in college. The next aspect is - what means the state has. Once it was known exactly which part of the social gross product is set aside for education, types of schooling, etc. The lack of funds allegedly created a space for a private initiative, and I know that he remembers well, if not Mr. Zarko, then Mr. Mitrovic, was a science assistant, then 1997/98. given a small valve, under rigorous conditions how private education can be present, to be some kind of positive alternative to state education. And then came this Furia Dosmanlian, Trojan horses, for all these are their faults, they welcome Solana instead of sending him to prison, they worship Ollie Rena, and Ollie Rena is nowhere to be respected in Europe for you to know, or even in his own Finland. But what do you do? Here are the media in the service of the regime, here every blower can be an expert, and from every zero that comes from abroad, a great politician, a great statesman, and even the Timed Krkobic must stand still to greet himself as the delegation arrives. And then no wonder what's going on. The majority took off the agenda a few days ago and proposed a decision on Kosovo and Metohija. You don't allow a debate about the state of banks, you don't allow anything, and then a Trojan horse appears under alcohol to spread his patriotism in a very rude way. It can't be patriotism and immorality together, but about that after. I would remind only Mr. Obradovic, since I know that he remembers that there was a heavy criticism in this assembly and the lady who was then a representative of the government for this law, and to remind you that the problems of choosing the council, how many times was elected here, at one point it was even so ridiculously funny. It is no wonder that we have a situation in which this law is not applied or, more specifically, it is selectively applied. Now, I'd like to draw attention to how this Bologna lady came into existence. It was created by someone in Europe who concluded that they needed to imitate Americans. The Americans, who have been a global force long ago, and especially since 45, because they only won World War II, the English have all been executed by the poor, have developed these production forces, have developed their domination, so if they needed five metallostriggers for a job, now thanks to the machines they need one. If they needed five locksmiths, now they need one, because that's what machines are. And what do they do with those four locksmiths and four metal pickers? They need to get a job. The entire U.S. economy is operating on a cost-saving system. Since the four locksmiths couldn't be behind the machine, then they invented that one of them was the shooter's manager, the other one for the warehouse and the third one to hold the screw. The worse the situation was in what are called favors. But the state also had a need for a para-state machine to control everything and everything. And then one Europe, which did not reach that position in America, decided to imitate so that students from France could continue their studies in England. Later, they noticed that these programs were not the same and that there was a big problem and a huge shortage. Americans, and today, so strong and strong, most imports of the brain from abroad. Let me tell you just one anecdote. When a contest is organised to receive a cashier, the candidates get 90% -- if the power goes out, so someone buys a product that costs two dollars, and he gives you a ten-dollar bill, how much are you going to return the change without using the cash register because there's no electricity? Of the 10 candidates, one manages to guess the exact result. Let me tell you that our VKVs are masters from here, since there after a while while they master language to get a permanent stay taking exams, the best mathematicians. Someone came up with a way to destroy fundamental knowledge and then act tragically when someone is reporting data that is increasing the number of illiterates in this country. Let me solve another dilemma for you right now. We used to scream here Mladjan Dinkić - Irish model, Irish miracle, Irish model, Irish miracle. Last year we were in a delegation and visited both their senate and their congregation, and we had a conversation with them and were particularly interested in this Irish economic miracle. Both senators and MPs wondered what they were like when they were being tortured for 35 years, for the last ten years, something lived a little. Who says they're a miracle? And we say, there's a finance minister who talks. He says, say hello to this man, he doesn't know anything. When we asked what your prosperity looked at, he said, in education. For the last 15 years, we've given the focus to education, the state's funding of education as much as possible. And how was it before that? There were a lot of uneducated people in Ireland. We can't compare here either. They have a process for the nation to become more educated, and we have a process for the nation to disappear. There, that's the story. Let me remind you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, these in the Irish Parliament have boasted that in a few days direct television broadcasts will start from the Assembly. Look how far we're ahead of them. Of course, usually in the fall when the window is opened then some doors and windows are pounding, but given this heat, it's not bad to blow up a little bit. When a man doesn't graduate from college, and he thinks he's very smart, then there's usually some kind of drive, and that's the problem. Mrs. Djukic, I hope you recognize the problem, you're a good diagnostician. So these are our problems, fundamental problems. I know that Mr. Obradovic is fully aware of the fact that this amendment of this law does not solve the problem, maybe it puts out some fire, if I may say so, just put out some fire, because a poor man can't even write down where all the holes are in that can called education. Now let me remind you, there was one expert again, so he's been showing us for two years that there's a surplus, which means there's so much that the state doesn't need to spend. At some rotten time, when everyone lived well in this country, the excess income over expenditure was returning to the economy, linearly or selectively, invested in some development, and here a fictitious surplus in consumption, and budget. Mr. Obradovic, is he now five or six times as busy in the state administration as when you were in government for the first time? Maybe three times, maybe I was wrong. I only remember that story about the police. By 2001 there were 100,000 police officers, Djindjic said in May 2001 -- there are no 100, there are 18, in order to normally do business we need another 5,000. This is the story that is worn and I am not surprised either by Montenegro, I am not surprised either by Macedonia, nor by the fact that the 27 EU countries have recognised an independent Kosovo and I am not surprised that someone here has forced us to ratify an alleged agreement, and it was no obligation at all. No one in the EU will ratify this because on the first day it was signed, we don't care. But we're dealing with ourselves here. For days, the president of the National Assembly has been pushing his party. It's not an SPS, don't get mad, it's a new one. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, in order to make no more mistakes, and to understand what I am giving you, you do not need Bologna, all you already have as a finished school is enough. Ask these citizens for confidence in the election of a MP. I'm giving you a photocopy of an original who's with me. You'll see what it says here. We can't be immoral about this, and Montenegro's moral attitude. How can people do that, explain it to me? When it comes to this confession, then we're going to call on the Constitution, and the resolutions, and the brotherhood, and this and that, and when it comes to this, then we're going to make a fool of ourselves. Then it's good to put in from time to time some unidentified flying object under alcohol like a Trojan horse, burn, go out and then the citizens say -- you see, the assembly isn't a healthy place, they're arguing about the chair, about the mandate, not taking care of the state. We take care of the state, but someone's making us talk about something that's peripheral, marginal, miserable, from the point of view of the Constitution and the law. There's Mr. Otto Kishmarton. Give him confidence after he's forgotten him. He has no confidence that he is a Messenger of the people. Here's your photocopy. I have the original. Look what it says in that belief. Can you invite MPs with the belief that everyone can identify who is and what is, or are you still making phantom parties? For what? You are humiliating Serbia, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. You don't humiliate procedure, every procedure and every form exists because of content and essence. We're talking about the essence. You've lost sight of the essence. You don't see the point. We don't get anything with this change. There's a little fire going out so it doesn't sound like a fire. Your students are quiet, there's no one to pull them into the street, the SRS doesn't want it, you know. We don't want to. Why would they pull students out on the street? Is it hard for them, it's hard for them. What about our programs? The law has been passed, are the programs adjusted for these 60 points? If you adjust them, you heard from your MP's professor, then you lose the essence, there's no knowledge. Why Lomonosov, why some other important colleges, why do universities simply confess but not confess? Why don't we do that trick, we confess the sausages, and we don't admit it? I guess we're interested in having our kids finish colleges and have some knowledge, not like that Biserka Zivkovic, finish college, so we've been rolling around at RIK with her interpretations. A woman ended up in a relationship. Not to mention the G17 plus. Where's the money, there's a G17 plus. Where are they now? They're gone. They don't care about this. Look, the experts came forward, what he said, he says -- you know, me, Shaper and Gilas, we know it all, we follow those focus groups and this and that. Political life is being transferred to the media. Where? TV, paid newspapers, making up topics just to keep from talking about what's important, and for years we've been trying to get what's important, important for the lives of Serbian citizens back to the National Assembly, to talk about it here, to realize that some things are threatening. This bank thing is too much. There's no need to make that agenda, they need the presidents to agree on the agenda in no time. About KiM we need to make a deal. But, Goran Bogdanovic, who served as minister in that transitional government, you've put him here now as minister. Who did you make secretary of state? Oliver Ivanovic. When was he representing Serbian national interests? I know you work for the American embassy, and I'm not surprised by your comments, I'm glad when you throw, but you have to take care of some level. There's something that's bearable and that's not tolerable. Take care of yourself, you should represent the citizens of Serbia here, not America. This isn't the American Congress, this is the National Assembly. Maybe we're like this, maybe we're like this, maybe we're not pretty, maybe we're not educated, but we're trying to articulate the interests of this people. If you like being here, if you don't like changing the program. It's no problem, but don't throw it away so rudely in these difficult moments. Have a little dignity for your people. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I still have these five or six minutes, I won't waste that time. I hope everyone's clear. We're all hurt, we're all offended, because those who insult and those who humiliate apparently have some benefits, just remember that old saying -- it's been kidnapped. That's what it's always gonna be like. Let's raise our heads and move on, and please take a little care of what the MPs of the SRS tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3803	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask the president, or a representative of a parliamentary group, before concluding a principled search, whether he wants to use the time in accordance with Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Kolundjia, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3804	The Honorable Madam President, the Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Parliamentary Group "For European Serbia" will support the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education because we think it is important. Because we think it's important for the reform of education to continue, fully aware that since the start of the reform on that path, there have been difficulties, congestion, maybe sometimes wandering, but what we believe is that it must not be paid by children, students and should not be paid by their parents. That's why we think that these amendments and additions to the law, as many here have said, are a way to overcome one of the problems, so that the damage to those to whom this applies would not be great. We believe that in the next period, the Ministry will make a strategy that will take care of the opportunities of society in this reform and at the same time the desired objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3805	The word has a minister, Mr. Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3806	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Dear fellow Members of the People, I know it's late and I won't be long, but I have a moral and professional obligation to thank you all for what those who took part in this law have said. In the presentations of each of you, I have truly recognized the good will to improve the Law on Higher Education and to do something that will make our higher education better than it is now. It's not a catastrophic situation, but it's not ideal. Apparently, some of the big words we've been using for years back to glorify our education system aren't true. This showed the results of the exams that took place last year and this year. I must remind you that we have not entered these changes now but last year. Last year, a number of 37 points was established as a condition for entering the school year. We, with the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education now, let me say, direct this process and follow under the legal provisions, aware that we have to answer why it happened. If the transition was in September 22% to 30% at universities in Serbia, we all owe the public to Serbia and students, we owe ourselves an answer to the question why. The answer must be given by those in charge, and above all by the National Council for Higher Education, they must give both universities and universities individually. What I heard tonight is the objective concern of each and every one of you on behalf of the parliamentary groups in the name of which you performed to move things forward and improve the system of higher education. What can serve all of us honor is the fact that we have a system of higher education, that is, the roots range two centuries back. On 13 September we celebrated two centuries of higher education in the Republic of Serbia, we have higher education longer than some countries last. We have something to be proud of and we have something to say to others. This does not mean, of course, that we should bury ourselves in a place and not follow everything in the world of innovation and technological progress, which we can see in our curricula and programmes and which can contribute to Serbia's development. This accreditation process, which is under way, will objectively introduce a single order into the area of higher education and it has its full meaning. It should not be forgotten, in order for a higher education institution to be accredited, it must be complementary to programs of famous universities and universities in the world, but it must have space, it must have scientific and competent people. So some standards are still set that must be met in order to obtain accreditation. The essence of this law is to help students enroll more of them in the school year. It's a fact, and we don't need to run away from it -- to help students get a school year and for those who don't meet the quota, that number of 60 points, the state also creates legal and financial opportunities that they can end up at the expense of the state after four years. As Ministry, we haven't been late, although it may seem compared to the fact that we're discussing this today. Why? Look at the provisions of the Law on Higher Education, the part relating to the jurisdiction of Konus, see part of the Law on Higher Education relating to the jurisdiction of the National Council for Higher Education, and you will see that these two bodies have an obligation to give their opinion, and the Ministry must make this a form of law. We had a university position in Belgrade in July, but we didn't have a view of the other universities. This attitude that we modified and translated into law is supported by all the state and private universities in Serbia, supported by the National Council for Higher Education, and supported by students. Of course, that doesn't mean everything is ideal, and this makes sense at this point. It is up to us to answer why the results are the way they are, whether the problem with the curricula and the programs, whether in the implementation, whether in the extensive textbooks, whether in the study, whether they are teaching, whether students are inactive. These are questions that we objectively must give to the public of Serbia. There's something else I need to tell you. There's been a lot of talk here about finance. I want you to know that this ministry has a budget that, when you look at the figures, is fantastic -- a billion and three hundred and forty-two million euros or 105,715 million dinars. It's a fantastic sum. But respected fellow MPs, 95.9% of those sums, and in the execution of 97% of the sum goes to personal employee incomes, and in the education system there are 125,000. Our education services benefit about a million children of different ages and students. Then we have three to 4.1% to satisfy everything: for preschool, for primary, for secondary, for higher education, for loans, for student and student homes, for investment interventions. We have over 500 schools that are over 95 years old. That's nice when we say we have a tradition, but those schools should be maintained. We have to rationalize the network, we have to do a lot of things. Well, someone compared the situation to some bucket that was pierced. There is much open, but we must not close our eyes before it, but solve it, solve it with the help of the profession and give solutions that are also suitable for Serbia, but that lead us forward. Indeed, I must say to you, too, do everything to make our education, as minister, because the minister does not have much jurisdiction, but he can promote many things and can move many things forward, do much to make us part of the educational European space, that what is appropriate there is applicable to us, that Serbia moves forward. But let us not forget the Dosite, the Wolf, Tesla, Pupin, Milutin Milankovic, or any of our people who have marked the scientific and educational scene of Serbia. Why? Because we have results. With these 3%, there's not much we can do. Serbia's plan is to increase the share of education spending from 3.8% to 6% in 2016. Will that be possible? We hope so, because we want this imbalance, that this huge amount of money that goes only for personal incomes, simply, to go the other way, because there's a lot that can be done for education without just being part of personal incomes. I'm not going to talk about other things, because there was a lot about education, but it's not the subject of this law. I simply want to invite all the parliamentary groups tonight, and I see that the vast majority has already shown such an attitude, that as soon as possible this law is passed, the conditions are created for students, in a manner established by this law, to obtain the conditions to enter the school year. You know, this law has been limited since 2010/11. 60 points will be a condition for enrollment, but this graduality, the degree of increase in points is necessary in relation to the situation we have and is one period of adjustment. We prepared this proposal by believing it was in the best interest of the students and their parents. The state has shown that it also takes care of them, not only through this bill, but also through commitment and that it finances their study in one subsequent period. This proposal, I have already mentioned, in addition to all the bodies I have mentioned, is supported by students, the Student Parliament and the Students' Union. I call on you all to get this law passed as soon as possible and simply create conditions for students to enroll and achieve all the other things they receive on the basis of the right to enroll in the current school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-09-0.u3807	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm finishing the initial search. I remind you that we will continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 p.m.
