ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 106 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called on the sittings to attend, in addition to representatives of the proposings, Snezana Malovic, the justice minister, whom I particularly welcome, and Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Justice Ministry, and Jovan Ćosic, the head of justice, also welcome those present. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Tuesday, December 30, 2008, so within a short period of time, as set out in Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure and by way of time laid down in Article 85(1) The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft agenda law set out in the Government's request as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Sixth Extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, which was called upon by the Government, acting in accordance with Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 66 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was filed by the Government (number 713-3684/08 of 29 December 2008). We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the CRIME RULES You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. MEP Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; G17 parliamentary group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the "Forward Serbia" - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the SRS parliamentary group has authorised the presentation of Zoran Krasic on this agenda point. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12061	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, as you know, are on the agenda today to discuss the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. On the occasion of this text, I point out: as I have already pointed out in my opening statement since 24 December, the Ministry of Justice has earlier prepared a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. That bill contained more extensive changes to the CAP and was the alignment of the code with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Criminal Code and the ratified international conventions and contracts relating to criminal proceedings. I would like to remind you that the transitional provisions of that bill provided that the CAP, adopted in 2006, should be put out of force, for the reason that provisions concerning witness protection, postponement and suspension of the main search, as well as provisions relating to so-called. specific evidence actions. The working version of the legal text was prepared by a working group composed of representatives of scientific institutions, judges, public prosecutors and lawyers. The president of the task force was a professor. Grub. However, in light of the overload of the National Assembly, the government of the Republic of Serbia withdrew the draft law from the assembly procedure and sent to the National Assembly the law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was adopted in 2006. This law applies to the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure, which was scheduled to enter on 31.12.2008, postpones until 31 December 2010. Since this code provides for the introduction of a prosecutor's investigation, it is necessary to create additional necessary, material and technical conditions for its implementation, as you know. As these conditions are not secured, it is proposed that the application of the laws be postponed, bearing in mind that the laws governing the organisation of judicial authorities are provided for a new network of judicial authorities to start work on 1 January 2010, while in a period of one year thereafter, the necessary conditions for the application of the laws are created. In addition, I note that the text of this bill, which is now before you, includes amendments submitted earlier by the MPs, which refer to the date until which the CAP is being postponed, as well as the date of entry into force of the law. I would particularly like to point out that the text of the draft law has incorporated the amendment's solution to the previous version of the bill that was submitted before the New Serbia parliamentary group, MP Srdjan Spasojevic. I would also like to repeat that according to the proposed solutions to this law, the 2001 CAP would continue to apply, with certain provisions of the 2006 laws already in force. I would remind you that a new working group is educated, whose task is to prepare a new text of the proposal for this Code, which will at the same time represent the necessary alignment with the Constitution and other regulations, but also the regulation of the best legal solutions that meet the needs of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Such text will create conditions for the effective and comprehensive application of the Codes in practice, i.e. faster and more effective criminal proceedings, with maximum guarantees for the achievement and protection of human rights in criminal proceedings. I've had so much to say and just to thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12062	I thank Mrs. Minister. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Zoran Krasic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here, you have the word, then Mr. Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12063	At first, I'm going to point out a few, as far as the SRS is concerned, important details about this bill. The law is short, there are only two members, and Minister Malovic explained why it is necessary to adopt it, especially why it is necessary to adopt it today, as required by the law. I have to say at first, if that's true, that a task force has been formed to work on a new criminal code, then it's certainly good news. But if this new task force is supposed to be working on a criminal code to work out the concept of a prosecution investigation, then believe me, it's the wrong thing to do. That's what we pointed to a few years ago. Just to remind the public and these MPs who have been in the National Assembly for many years, including the representatives of the government who are present here, we warned you in 2006 that this is exactly what is happening today, which is manifesting the need to bridge this situation, and it means that the prosecutions are not prepared, are not able to take over the investigation. It's a kind of problem, and I'm sure the Justice Department for the past five or six months has had to have one quality assessment of this situation, and with this law it had to hurry, months ago to pass this law and delay the application of the new law, because it's impossible to apply this law in practice. By good old tradition at five to twelve, so did this bill. As serious as this situation is, I'd like to draw attention to the following. If the investigation were left to the prosecution, chaos would occur in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. What it looks like when the prosecution investigates you have the best example in the work of the UN tribunal. If you've been monitoring the transmissions of these trials, of course, there's a transmission being monitored when it comes to the phase of a case in The Hague called the search, with a sub-phase of the prosecution's evidence, and a sub-phase of defense evidence, and that I don't order any further, but there's also a stage pre-emptive, where the investigation is being conducted by the prosecution. You had the opportunity to see in a direct transmission that a witness who had been given to the prosecution's investigators in the investigation was read and that the witness in the investigation said that he never told the prosecutor, that he couldn't even assume that the prosecutor would put it in the paper. Another example of this obvious error, illegality and something that will be bad for all criminal proceedings, is that you have a situation where the defence in the search does not have the materials provided by the prosecution during the investigation, and then the judges of the search party get hold of the head and say, wait, if you've been exposed to that material, if you've received the necessary information for the further course of the criminal proceedings, and it is determined that the defense has no such documents and that evidence. You've had opportunities in a direct transmission from The Hague to hear the judges of the search party say, if from Italy, France, etc. - in our legal system, such a situation could not happen, but since this Anglo-Saxon concept is represented in The Hague, where the investigation really belongs to the prosecutor, then such things are almost a regular phenomenon. It is not a guarantee of respect for human rights if an investigation is conducted by the prosecutor, and the court decides on detention, and only the court decides on detention. Of course, I don't want to defend the existing concept from the point of view of practice, and one and the other concepts from the point of view of practice have both their positive and their negative sides. The negative parties depend primarily on the individuals involved in the proceedings, whether it is the judge, whether it is the prosecutor, or both. That's why I'm trying to show both positive and negative sides of both concepts as objectively as possible. I don't think we need to change the concept of where the investigation is. The investigation should be allowed to be under the control of an investigative judge. Of course, the parties have their procedural activity, but over this whole investigation, the investigating judge stands as a guarantee of respect for the rights of the suspects, the defendants, and at one point the defendants. In our terms, if the investigation is transferred to the prosecution, then we'll have unequal sides in the search itself. The prosecutor is a party to the proceedings. The parties to the procedure must be equal, they should be used with equal weapons. These are all international principles, not to go further into standards, not to go particularly into the principles of proof and other principles, because the purpose of the assembly speaker and this debate is not to, but to give a political assessment of one or another concept. I express the view of the SRS that if you have made a working group, if it is to work, you should comb the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, the one that is still in force today, see some solutions that need to be changed, but the investigation must be kept under the patronate of the investigating judge, means that the court, that it be a cap above all, that it controls how investigations are carried out, while disabling the parties in the process to demonstrate their activity and during the investigation. Because of this unfinished work today, we have in practice a completely different situation from the investigation to the investigation. There's an investigation going on, the defendant, and he doesn't know there's an investigation going on, he's just surprised by the charges. I think this is how we ended up with this attitude about this bill. Of course, we're the opposition, you're the government, you're going to provide the required majority, I'm not going to go into other details why the urgency for power and the judiciary is significant and interesting at this point. I'd use this time below to point out some things concerning the Justice Department. I consider it because of yesterday's work in the National Assembly, especially this morning's information in newspapers and television, where the SRS and the parliamentary majority are accused that you allegedly provided some funds for yesterday's SRS work. We believe that it is an attack, above all, against the authorities of the state, that it is an attack on Boris Tadic as president of the Republic, that it is an attack on the DS, that it is an attack on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it is also an attack on the ZES parliamentary group. Yes, if you wake up in the morning and read the news - the SRS got the money because it passed the budget yesterday. I think you're supposed to answer the phone and tell the truth. It's very simple and simple to tell the truth and there's a point. Why does it need the truth? We're not gonna let everyone spread some news now. The SRS has a legitimate request to get the president's seat on some committee that belongs to her. Now, it turns out by those spreaders of that fake news that we made a deal for you to give us back our place, so we even got the money because you're giving us our place back. That's crazy. I don't want to comment on that kind of thinking of those individuals who are placing that news, but I think they're targeting you, calling you, and Boris Tadic, and Mirko Cvetkovic, and the management of the DS, and the people of the ZES, the MP groups here, that you've allegedly returned something to the regulations belonging to the SRS, so you've still honored the SRS. You're obliged, in my opinion, to come by and say what's true, which is not true, if someone from the U.S.S. paid the SRS. They're calling you. It's called the one who has, not the one who doesn't. Very simple and simple. I can understand that someone's angry, I can understand that someone's nervous, but their anger and anxiety shouldn't be treated by spreading false news. I think it's hurting everyone. If there's no adequate response, it hurts everyone, and then it turns out that there's market here -- conflict offers and demands. Our demand is the seat of the chairman of the Finance Committee. Why? This belongs to us as the largest opposition political party represented in the National Assembly. The third thing I would like to use, especially to use because Mrs Malovic is present as minister. Mrs. Malovic, I have two items here. I have to tell you that they are not in direct contact with the Code of Criminal Procedure. They're not in a direct relationship, there's a connection. I don't want to say names for the public. Why don't I want to speak names? Because it's two complaints. I'll explain it to you right away, without any strain. An appeal by a citizen who has not been able to finish the job for years because a technical error was made in the verdict - a mislabelled location, a catastrian mislabelled location. To correct that mistake, he initiated several procedures. But they won't even talk to him in court. I could call this a small mistake and a small injury that is happening in court, and I would deliver it here, and I must say, thanks above all to the Justice Committee, it is the material of the Justice Committee, and this material is the same, where one citizen, because of one case that exists in the Commercial Court in Belgrade, was forced to use legal resources to the High Court of Justice, etc., but also to initiate criminal proceedings against both the opposing court and the judge of one court, another court, a third court and a lawyer who was once a judge of the trade court, so he opened up a lawyer's office. I don't want names, don't worry. I ask the question with this material - if there is such documentation against a judge, let it be simple, that only criminal charges or five criminal charges have been filed, my Batic will not be angry if I take him as an example, he is both an MP and a lawyer, and he comes into the situation that in some of his professional cases the judge should judge. What do you want Mr. Batic to do? What is his guarantee that this trial will be fair, fair, constitutionally based, with the application of the law, if Mr Batic, Mr Krasic, Mr Todorovic and Mrs Nada know that there are so many criminal charges against this judge, with links that indicate organized crime between the court, the judge, one law firm and another lawyer? If Batic applied for the judge's exemption, what would he decide? Did he have any reason to suspect that this criminal record shows that the judge was prone? I don't use names. You'll read everything here. That's what's on the Justice Committee. I think these two examples open one very important topic, both for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for all the MPs, and especially for your task force working on the Code of Criminal Procedure, and if you continue to go with that concept that you pushed through last month, you know basic, higher, one bigger, the other bigger, the advice, etc. I have to distract you, we have a large number of judges today who have criminal charges, and we have a large number of MPs who have criminal charges, we have a large number of lawyers who have received criminal charges, a large number of prosecutors who have received criminal charges. Is it possible that a citizen protects his fundamental rights in the justice system by being forced to write criminal charges against those who need to grant him justice? How do we get out of that vicious circle? With this re-election of yours, I'm sure you won't be able to solve this problem. You know why you won't be able to? I don't blame you, I'll tell you right now. This is where we formed a concept in society. You can rock anyone, you can destroy anyone, you can crush anyone, anything, with a newspaper text, etc. But you can hardly promote someone because there's some value in them in some area. Is it possible that in our country there are forbidden values, and that popular blood, meat, inscription - savage, inscription - slaughtered, killed, burned, filed criminal charges, prosecuted him, held him down, strangled him, destroyed him? If we don't change that social climate and something that's worth being objective for all values, then we can move on. We didn't get anything by selecting new judges and after 15 days, criminal charges against these judges. Neither can you forbid that man to file criminal charges, nor can you throw those criminal charges away, because there may be some suspicion. You know, we change laws for free, we make laws for free, if the social climate hasn't changed and adapted for something new, for a new system of values. And I'm asking you to understand, in that sense, everything I've been saying today, because if we don't cut, we don't draw a line and go in a principle way to solve all these problems, then, people, we're doing this job for nothing, then this is all "Drunk Baba Lan." We as humans, as individuals, must agree on what value is and what value is we must all as individuals to protect, and not at every step, because of some small, narrow and unauthorized interests, to destroy, both in the newspaper text, and in the manner, both in the fams, in the rumors and in the other way. That's the point of what we SRS are fighting for. We may be boring to some as often as we go out and talk, but we are in the days when we should congratulate each other and wish a lot of happiness, and we will probably need a lot of happiness in 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12064	Thank you. You have been given a report by the Committee on Justice and the Legislative Committee, so the rapporteurs did not need anything further to explain, and the president of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, please, Mr Aligrudic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12065	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, at the very beginning I would like to congratulate all Serbian citizens and all my colleagues on the upcoming New Year's Eves, because I do not believe that before the new year in this composition we will see each other again, as well as Christmas holidays for all those celebrating on the Julian calendar. The bill before us was in the previous session. He had to be withdrawn, because it wouldn't have come with his debate and adoption. It's a small law of two members. Unlike the great incompetence and irresponsibility of the ruling coalition, it is interesting that this law is also another evidence, another paradigm of government incompetence. One of the short laws, which was necessary for the deadlines to be adopted and for the time limit to be passed, is the reason for its adoption, and today it is December 30th. It can remind us of one more thing. It is not hard to remember, last night it happened, and it was about the adoption of the Republika Srpska budget, which Mirko Cvetkovic, the prime minister, said would be economical, social and developmental, which is, in fact, unrealistic, inflatoral and which strikes on citizens' social security. How does he do that? The budget did it the next way. He's unreal, because he's not even thrifty, and he's not thrifty, because when you're saving, that means you have 50,000 dinars of some revenue, so you cut off some 10,000 or 15,000 dinars for some savings, and that budget predicts incomes that he can't incasate, which he can't realize, and everything he realizes will be spent, plus a included deficit. Therefore, this budget is not economical, it is not thriftful. It is not a developmental one, because it does not involve any investment, and it is inflatable because by following the laws, which need to implement that budget, to implement a unilateral application of the SAA, they shift the burden of financing the state directly to the pockets of citizens, and for those products which, unfortunately, must be bought, including oil derivatives. Now the vault is empty, and local self-government has received nothing from the transfer of funds. But what is worst in this whole story is that the budget, this same budget, reflects the incompetence of one government, has been late 40 days to come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss it, for no reason whatsoever. The elections were in May, so that the ruling coalition cannot be called upon, as an excuse, and that the justification was whether the government was doing other things, which made it unable to prepare a draft budget, such as the adoption of a series of laws that it owes to Serbian citizens, which are also obligations under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and which are important for the EU, which the ruling coalition so swears, which it so issued, could still be justified. However, there is no excuse. Last night you adopted the budget an hour and a half before midnight, and by not actually adopting it. That's what citizens of Serbia must be told today to know what happened last night. According to Article 15. The law on the budgetary system, which defines the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia, consists of a proposal for budgetary text in a narrow sense, but it is necessary for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to be delivered: a memorandum on the budget, a plan for the sale of republican non-financial assets and basic funds for the financial year, the financial plans of organisations, in particular social security, and proposals for the implementation of the budget. It is understood that the adoption of the budget assumes adoption of all these acts. You didn't deliver some, and some of them you delivered last night were withdrawn because of that teat. What did you accomplish last night, nothing? You have adopted a budget of the Republic of Serbia that cannot be applied. It will apply when these implementing budget laws are adopted, who knows when in January, and in that time you don't even have the temporary funding you'd have -- if you hadn't adopted the budget. That's the situation you're in. There, paradoxically, but small happiness for individual citizens, not for some, but for many citizens, because what you planned, which is to freeze pensions, they are not currently frozen. What you planned to burden your citizens' pockets to fill the fiscal and make up for 300m euros in losses due to the unilateral application of the SAA -- Serbian citizens will remain spared, even temporarily, for paying the great price of this service to them. You have, then, decided to make a decision on the budget, and to bring down the accompanying laws, and so you decided to bring down both Serbia itself and give the citizens of Serbia what you have already shown, and next year it will reflect - a year of total economic instability, and when it comes to state instability, we do not talk about it. Unfortunately, with my congratulatory card or what I wished the citizens for the next new year, something goes into the prologue of all of it, as a single addendum -- it is you, your authority, which I can only wish was released as soon as possible and that people who know the sober and normal economic to think, who know soberly where Serbia is and how they can communicate with the world, and to protect their territorial and other interests, including those interests, when it comes to co-operation with significant international organisations, like the EU. You can't do any of that. I don't know how this is gonna end. It was a bad start, if the morning is known, and this morning has been long and long, from May to this day, I am afraid that the peace of this day will be a disaster for all of us and for all of Serbia's citizens, and for you people's MPs, because you are also citizens of Serbia, except that many of you still don't know what kind of train they're driving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12066	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search of the application for a word in writing, submitted by the MPs of the DSS and the Radical Party. I give my word to MP Milica Radovic of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, and the next is Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the second time in just a few days we have a chance to discuss this criminal code. The DSS MPs have no idea how many times they've pointed out the need for the Code of Criminal Procedure to be changed, that is, to delay its application, that this is necessary. We really don't have the understanding that it's happening at this point, literally at five to 12, when we know that we had the chance to discuss this bill at the moment we were discussing a set of judicial laws. It was then time for him to be discussed, especially if we also have in mind the fact that all the laws of the set of judicial laws come into force immediately, but are applied in July 2010, and we know that the time limit for the application of this law is actually due tomorrow. So, you've put us in a position to discuss today delaying the application of this code, whose application should have been delayed much earlier. Of course, there was obviously no will for it, no knowledge. Of course, this is where the government knows what time it demonstrated its insecureness. That's what you did yesterday, when you weren't able to vote on your own budget without a good will of the opposition. If DSS MPs hadn't given up their discussions on the budget, you wouldn't be able to pass the most important law the Assembly has to adopt. Of course, it is necessary to postpone the Code of Criminal Procedure because it is not provided for material or technical conditions for its application. We know that an investigation into the jurisdiction of the judiciary goes to the prosecution's jurisdiction and, in order to do so, it is necessary for prosecutors to be trained in human beings enough to weave something. We know that the procedural position of the police is changing and that it was necessary to provide the necessary conditions. Like I said, they're not provided with any material or technical conditions. They primarily refer to the security of premises in which an investigation would be carried out in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, to the provision of the necessary technique for the secret and optical surveillance of suspects, to provide cameras and to examine persons conducted in the police themselves. It has not been provided, too, with a number of other conditions, when it comes to the fees of experts and other financial preconditions. Of course, all this points to the need for the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure to be postponed, but we cannot have an understanding of the fact that it is now done and that you are, in fact, in your conduct, bringing one confusion and uncertainty to all those who need to act in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, because they will be completely surprised when, on the night between 31 December and 1 January, they are not in a position to know what law to apply, unless you, today or tomorrow, at the latest, vote this law. We have repeatedly pointed out the fact that the government has an obligation by 31 December 2008, until tomorrow, to comply with all the laws with the Constitution, that is its legal and constitutional obligation, that is, from the Constitutional Law, these laws have about 50. The government has not directed any of these laws into the congregation procedure, nor has any of these laws been put on the agenda. As the opposition was very constructive yesterday when the budget was passed, I don't think there would be any problem if these laws were put on the agenda and that by tomorrow everyone was actually adopted. By doing so, the opposition would show its constructiveness once again, and the ruling majority and authority would show their seriousness. But this is no longer worth talking about, the government is talking about her moves and everything she does from the formation itself and the opposition itself is to point out and we don't need to work too hard when we talk about how much the government doesn't do well in its work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12068	Thank you, Mrs. Radovic. National MP Sreto Peric has a word, followed by Mr Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, if someone had told me at the beginning of this year that I would have waited with you for New Year's Eve, I wouldn't have believed it. I'm not opposed, but if we had an obligation to meet here, I couldn't believe it. But lately, more and more suggestions from the president of the assembly have shifted to me and I am optimistic about the adoption of this law, as Mrs President has been sending positive signals for several days, that she is optimistic about adopting the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget. Of course, the SRS also had the same intention, but they were mostly in the debate on the issue of their objections. Let's go back to the debate under this law - what bothers us in the SRS parliamentary group? It is a shame that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have adequate treatment on the issue of justice, because it does not need to be omitted from the view that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia treats the system of justice with 11 members, the High Council of the Court of Justice three and the prosecution with two other members, pays one very serious attention, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, perhaps the Ministry of Justice, has one entirely different treatment. It is enough to point to the fact that two laws on criminal proceedings are now being applied and that after today there will be another one, that is, three laws on criminal proceedings. The first was delivered in 2001, the second was delivered in 2006 and today or tomorrow another. So we're going to have three criminal codes, which are going to be applied parallelly, and for the one that needs to be adopted today or tomorrow, I'd say it's a three-time code. The first draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure was referred to in the procedure of the National Assembly on 8 December, the second 17 December and the third yesterday, on 29 December, with only two members, where a member is proposed to amend the provisions of Article 555. The 2006 Code of Criminal Procedures replaces the words "31 December 2008" with the words "31 December 2010". The reason for this is that no material, technical, and I would like to add the prosecution's expert preparations for conducting an investigation, which is why it is delayed. But there is something that I am looking forward to, Minister Malovic said in an explanation that she accepted the amendment of a national MP, so the deadline provided for in the December 17th draft law, from July 31st 2010, was moved to December 31st 2010. I think the government would work more effectively if it accepted a large number of amendments submitted by SRS MPs and MPs from other parliamentary groups. We remember only when the adoption of the law on the territorial organisation of the judiciary and the prosecution was on the agenda, that the amendments were in front of all parliamentary groups and that they were accepted, we would have a far more effective territorial organisation of the judiciary, which does not mean that by 31 December 2009 someone who is the minister of justice will not come out with a new proposal to extend that deadline or change that law. We believe that we should not waste too much time, but that in the beginning we should propose to the MPs laws that can be applied, laws of which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will benefit. The National Strategy for Justice Reform, which was adopted on 25 May 2006, is also in vain here in the National Assembly. The Action Plan of 6 July 2006, which the government adopted at its session, was set up on 22 June 2006, by the Commission for the Implementation of the National Strategy, if today, on 30 December 2008, we are considering a law that was due to enter on 1 January 2009. In the National Strategy for Justice Reform, the special emphasis was placed on four principles that should be taken into account in judicial reform, which is the principle of independence, transparency, accountability and efficiency, which further stems from 12 principles that should be used in judicial reform. But how can we say that there is independence when we know how and how judges and public prosecutors are elected, and only when they are elected in the next period, when the High Council of the Judiciary does so, what influence political parties will be during that period. We don't know that there's been a responsibility so far. We also doubt in the next period with this government that it will be the responsibility of unconscious judges and prosecutors, and only the efficiency of the justice system can we not speak at all. Let me remind you that we have cases that have been slow for 20 years. They're, I guess, extreme and exceptional cases, but they're five or six years old. Serbia's citizens have a huge grudge just about the length of the process. What is foreseen in the National Strategy for Justice Reform when it comes to the implementation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. And then it was said that the Commission for the Implementation of the National Strategy for Justice Reform, which held its session on 2 October 2006, will decide on the establishment of a commission for the application of the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure. The commission's task is to organise and coordinate activities and support the process for the application of the provisions of the criminal code. That's the code that we're postponing today until December 31st, 2010. On that point, Madam Minister, no matter what you said that the most professional people were appointed to the task force, she did not do enough. The SRS' approach to the concept of carrying out the investigation was explained by MP Zoran Krasic on behalf of the SRS, and there is a dilemma that is more acceptable, which is better. We know that there is absolutely nothing perfect, but the greatest responsibility will be on those persons who are to conduct the investigation. You've introduced these irresponsible behaviors first of all to the government. You correctly said that the government had withdrawn, because the National Assembly was busy, a proposal that arrived at the National Assembly on December 8th. Of course, the government knew there were other priorities, there were budgets, there were other laws. You can't say that it's something of a priority if he arrives at the National Assembly on December 30th, and only then do we have to discuss it. I can't blame you personally. Your responsibility or contribution to it is small, but the DS bears great responsibility. Since 2006, the minister of justice has been from the DS and we can say for a delay in applying this law that the DS is directly responsible. I am taking this opportunity, given that the Code of Criminal Procedure is on the agenda, to call on the President of the Republic, to call on the Minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, Nada Kolundzija, who is not currently in the hall, as head of the ZES parliamentary group, to answer the question of individual citizens who say that the SRS or someone on behalf of the SRS has received some money for what is required of the DS or the assembly majority to return. I must tell both you and the citizens of Serbia that the SRS is worth a lot more. The SRS doesn't do trade. It's not a company. I have to tell you that one of my friends, a member of the DS, from Love, says -- we're not a company, we're a company, but we don't do trade, our influence is much bigger and much more significant. Our purpose in dealing with politics and the existence of a political scene is to fight to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, to ensure a better standard of citizens, for overall love and yield and a better standard, and there is no material price. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate all citizens of the Republic of Serbia on Christmas and New Year's holidays, all of us, to work more and more efficiently in the coming year. You get a lot more active one day, asking questions to the government sometimes, you, Madam President, why he's late with some suggestions. Yesterday, I said, although you did not chair, did you once ask the Government for a 47-day delay in the draft budget in the National Assembly why it was late? I wish you, Mrs. Malovic, all the best in 2009. The state in which you are now, Serbia should, and in order for the citizens to know, they may not see it, you are blessed, in a different state. We want such news in Serbia to be as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12070	Mr. Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12071	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Milica Radovic also spoke very competently about this law at the last session and presented our views on the law today. Personally, I don't need to add or subtract anything. I only volunteered to determine a few facts that are related to this law. You certainly remember that in the past or in the sitting before we discussed a set of judicial laws, and then because of the government's great stubbornness, we did not say the government's arrogance, for 20 days we discussed a very bad law, which, in the end, was adopted by 123 votes for, with all the other accompanying games. It is about the law on the territorial distribution of courts in the country of Serbia and the law that is due to enter into force only in 2010. At the same time, the law that is the technical law, like this law before us, which was to be adopted by December 31st, is being adopted today, December 30th. I have to admit that I can't figure out that big government strategy, I can't figure out the great intelligence of the government, that for 20 days we're discussing one law, that because of this budget, which came to this assembly on December 7th, it was only December 22nd, and that December 7th was a delay of 37 days, and then last night we adopted it the way we adopted it, which is clear to the citizens. So, we are discussing a law that will enter into force in 2010, a law that is very bad, which even the ruling parties have submitted about 1/4 or 1/3 of the amendments, in order to force it, and then today, faster and better, we need to discuss again a technical law that could have been passed, it was quite clear, in September, that there will be no conditions for the application of this law. I'm saying this simply to keep it in mind, to stay somewhere recorded to what extent we're dealing with, I'm sorry, with a very, very bad government, with an unwise government. At times, it offends every reasonable person's intelligence. I can be politically opposed to some government, but I have no desire or need for that authority to be bad. For the sake of this country, that power should be good, but this power is in many ways, unfortunately, bad. In the end, let me congratulate and wish them a happy New Year on behalf of both the DSS to all our citizens and colleagues here. We'll need luck when we don't have any brains. Also, to all our citizens and colleagues in the O.R., who will celebrate Christmas in a few days, I want them to spend it in peace, happily, in the circle of their family, as is the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12072	Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, here's only a few sentences to say that when we have some of these urgent laws, many of which in the state depends, in this particular case of the judiciary, there must be an earlier response, there is no need to wait for a teaton, a finality, when something like this can happen that we cannot adopt, so that initiatives to the Constitutional Court are needed, etc., to delay some application of the law. I don't think this is the only case when it happens. In general, the bad manner of this government is that laws, such as travel documents, deposit insurance laws, should not be buried in the agenda points, for example, as we have done through a set of judicial laws, so let 13, 14, 15 points and those points of life that mean are conditioned practically something that needs to be done in a quiet atmosphere, because a set of judicial laws is something that is extremely important and then one big anxiety in the assembly, one press, so can't be adequately done. I think you should make sure that when a set of judicial laws enters into force, so in 2010, a lot of things in Serbia will change in the justice system, a new territorial, practical, division of courts, prosecutors, looking for a big job. The judiciary is going to be in one position where judges, prosecutors and lawyers aren't going to do very well. I am very glad that you accepted that suggestion to move the law to 31 December 2010 and that it takes a period when the law on criminal proceedings will be applied to separate itself from these many choices and all that is going to happen. In principle, laws should be passed by those who live, who are alive, who can be applied, who simply breathe with citizens, and not by those laws that will remain a dead letter on paper. And this time I have to tell you that at all costs we don't have to pass laws under one pretext - we want to join the EU, and then a whole set of laws from any area of life we bring and then we keep going into the situation that we have to move them because they can't live. I think it's unserious to the citizens of Serbia, unserious to the state, and I really urge you to do something like that in the future, when it comes to any law, you don't. Once again, I'm glad that you recognized what New Serbia wanted, before we withdrew, so we returned this law to the procedure, recognized a really good desire for the law to be fixed, and I think it's quite logical that its application begins on 31 December 2010, because we know that in the judiciary, in all courts there are annual schedules, that a lot is happening at the beginning of the year, and I think it's perfectly logical what you did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12074	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Prokic, LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12075	Dear President, dear colleagues, I'm not going to talk about the CAP because it's the last day anyway, and it doesn't make much sense, but I've seen some atmosphere here today where I find some sense. Today, in the speeches of all of you, we are having some solidarity, tolerance, love and friendship, and I would like it not only to be in the days before New Year's Eve, that throughout our next year we are doing it in these congregation lines, I think it will mean a lot to both the whole state and our society, if we succeed in winning such behavioural models and such relationships between us. On behalf of Cedomir Jovanovic and LDP, I wish you a happy New Year and a happy Christmas holiday. Praise be to God at his height, and peace on earth to men of good will.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12076	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, then Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12077	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I'm going to say a little bit about the CAP. Here, in May 2006, the Code of Criminal Procedure was passed. Article 555 of the law provides for application from 1 June 2007. After that, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law was adopted, where the deadline was extended to 31 December 2008, in order to then, in the proposal for a law amending the CAP, in Article 555, to say "31 December 2008." is replaced by the words "July 1, 2010". The draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Act now proposes a change by saying "31 December 2008." replaces the words "31 December 2010". I think there's a nice saying that says Et post to a small segett serendum or "And after a bad harvest should be sown," and after the bad solutions that the government offers us in one continuity should move on, work, criticise what is not good, praise what is good. There's a lot of things we've been criticizing lately that haven't really been as good as legal proposals. One of these things that will really be the subject of the task force, as the minister said, which will work on drafting the Criminal Procedure Act, is this law. So on this task force, I believe, there will be a huge burden of responsibility and work, the basic concept, as we have heard, is that the prosecution is actually investigating. We think this is an absolutely wrong concept. We believe that this concept will hardly be able to live in practice in terms of justice and justice, although the question is whether or not it even wants to be done here in the right way. Namely, the investigation will be conducted by the prosecutor, and the detention will be determined by the court, as provided for in this concept. We ask the question: what will be the co-ordination between the prosecutor and the court, so that she may not be at the expense of the suspect? According to us, the investigation should be under the control of an investigative judge. He is the one who is in the best and direct contact with the suspect, he can best consider and shed light on all facts relating to the suspect, both to the suspect and to the crime he is charged with. The ZKP Development Group is still facing some very important issues and problems. One of these problems is, as we hear, that the Supreme Casation Court will no longer be held in the presence of jury judges. The formerly boasted the presence of jury judges as something that represented in some way and a sort of work control, however, now suddenly these judges are disturbing someone. Why? I don't think there's any explanation. The explanation given by the motion that the judges are actually non-lysable in the trial before the Supreme Cassation Court, I think it's extremely unserious. Another newspaper that is proposed is the newspaper that the defender can be posted with the detainee. In addition to being in phone contact, without eavesdropping, it can be transmitted to a prisoner, without special supervision, without special control. It's explained that it's according to international norms. I find that absolutely not true and not according to international norms. We have a lot of examples at the International Tribunal in The Hague. I'd like to say something more current, and that, Madam President, I've asked a question in my time that wasn't a hypothetical question, but a purely legal question. I have not yet received an answer to it, and it has been said - what will happen if one of this new parliamentary groups ceases, or some of the conditions envisaged by law that they can no longer function as MPs? I didn't get an answer to that question. I think I got an answer from the competent institutions so this mess would not happen. However, I hope that the new year will bring an answer to this question. On this issue of current events, which is that the SRS has received from someone two million, or another figure, for some of the agreements that have taken place, I really believe that a public prosecutor should also answer. It's a question that needs to be resolved in the end. This is a question to be addressed to the highest state bodies. This is a question that needs to be addressed to the Serbian government, because one such statement is intruding into all social life pores. If someone has received some money, I ask that it be made public, that it be told to whom it is given, what it is given for, and if it is not, please make it public too, because your silence on this can be completely wrong and otherwise interpreted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12078	Thank you. Mr. Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister of Justice, concerning the proposal for this law concerning the extension of the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, adopted by this assembly, is no one else's fault, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia is behind this bill and the adoption of an appropriate new system code. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is normised in Article 15 - general deadline for harmonising the law with the Constitution; Mr Bosko, I am addressing the MPs here, and the minister should listen to what I am about to talk about, and it refers to important matters relating to criminal law. Namely, by 31 December 2008, the general deadline for the harmonisation of the law with the Constitution will be harmonised with all other laws which do not comply with the Constitution. This is a major problem in our legal regulation and legal order. Why? A large number of system laws are at stake -- about 50 laws, including the Code of Criminal Procedure. The harmonisation of other republican regulations is normised in Article 16. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that the republican regulations be passed for the enforcement of the law, which will comply with the provisions of the Constitution, will be harmonised within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law at the latest. So the Constitution is not respected. On the other hand, when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, you yourself have convinced yourself, Madam Minister, that the lost ugly time and wasteful work were those who had previously prepared the changes, and in fact the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which was to take effect these days. It's wasted time, and I think it's high time for this business to be approached more seriously; secondly, it's time for a quality and stable criminal code to be passed. Given the fact that we've come into this situation, that the new Code of Criminal Procedure prescribes a prosecution investigation, you have one prior investigation, this investigation only applies when there are suspicions that someone committed a crime, but with an unknown perpetrator. The investigation was then conducted by internal affairs authorities with a public prosecutor, but a large part of the proceedings were then taken by members of the police, or internal affairs authorities, at the request of the public prosecutor. But when it comes to the search for unknown perpetrators, it is in the jurisdiction, in large part, of members of the internal affairs authorities, to carry out, under official duty, the activities of detecting and enlightening criminal offences and finding their perpetrators and bringing them to the competent court. What has to be done, a year has been prepared for this change and addition, that is, harmonising with the Constitution, there are good solutions. Why? Some procedural procedures have changed and circumstances have changed. The current Criminal Procedure Code also defines SRJ, Serbia-Montenegro and is unclear how the code should be applied in practice. It's difficult to apply him. Many definitions and formulations must be consistent with the Constitution. Since this was an emergency time, I think we should do the following: leave the deadline and go to changes and supplement the existing Code of Criminal Procedure. These amendments and additions can only be made for the purposes of harmonising the Code of Criminal Procedure with the new Constitution. What are the goals? The first goal is to comply with the Constitution, especially those directly related, to those procedural actions, to material rights. Secondly, the alignment of this code with the international acts ratified by our country. Third, the integration of new solutions to which the practice and former Yugoslav, now Serbian, criminal and legal science, has pointed in the course of the current application of the law. Fourth, harmonising the text of the Codes with changes in socio-economic and political opportunities in the country. Fifthly, the termological and editorial alignment of the laws with the terminology of the new Constitution and the positive legislation, with which the Code of Criminal Procedure is complementary, as well as the improvement of the systemics of the Code itself. So these are the reasons why a new criminal code should be more seriously approached. But in the next period, it takes as short a time as possible to prepare these 125 members of the new proposal on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. We need to get to parliament as soon as possible so that he can be adopted. When this proposal is adopted on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which means harmonising with the new Constitution, harmonising with international legal acts and conventions ratified by our country, and new changed circumstances in SRJ, SCG, will mean the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or Serbia-Montenegro. That's the key question, Madam Minister. Yes, it is. You have the right, and you have the obligation to approach a new, brand-new criminal code. But it can't be done in a year. No, I don't. I will remind, there is Dr Batic, a respected lawyer and lawyer and minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia, who is well-known for certain facts both in comparative law and domestic law, that such a system law cannot be passed in a year, but must also be brought within an extended period of up to ten years. The expert team that worked in my mandate, in which I hired the best experts, secondly, now in preparation and draft, I see that Professor Momcilo Grubač participated and that he was involved in this matter, as an expert in procedural and criminal law. It's better to involve people who know the right, who have experience and who have expertise. Let me just point out, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the D.A. can't take charge of the investigation. That would be a disaster right now. It takes years for a public prosecutor to be in a position to conduct an investigation, because it's an extremely complex job. That's what the public prosecutors themselves say. They are not prepared to take this kind of responsibility, and citizens believe that at this point the best protector of their freedoms and rights is the court, not the administrative authority. As it is known, the administrative authority, the prosecution. Therefore, the court needs to trust more and prepare public prosecutors, change circumstances and prepare for all the grounds so that we can, if we compare our country with other states of continental and Anglo-Saxon law, and we are in a position to show that we are prepared to take over the prosecution investigation with us. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, there has been public information that the SRS has reportedly received 2m euros because it has sought to improve the law on the Republic of Serbia's budget. When the SRS estimated that civil interests were higher than other interests and that it was necessary to allow for a new budget for 2009, you saw the SRS give up the discussion on further amendments that were still around hundreds. Therefore, I ask you, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, to get involved, because this is an extremely dangerous thing and a public harassment, that someone has received two million euros because they have fought for a new budget, which is something that is not recorded in this House's history. There's no trade here with Serbian radicals. Serbian radicals are irreplaceable, Serbian radicals are persistent, and therefore we will fight honestly and honestly for every law, to be brought in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12080	Mr. Momo Colakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12081	Dear Presidents, the honourable minister, the honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law and speak positively in the voting day. On behalf of the PUPS, I would like to congratulate all citizens on Christmas and New Year's holidays. I especially want all Christmas and New Year's holidays to be welcomed by pensioners in health and joy. We wish you, Mr President, and all the MPs much happiness and health, and you, Madam Minister, to experience the happiest day of your life in the most beautiful way possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12082	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. The word has a folk MP, Momir Markovic, and then Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's fortunate that this bill has only two members, so we'll be able to adopt it by 2400 hours tonight. God forbid there are as many members as there are ministers, as many secretary of state, as there are assistants, directors, agencies, to St. We wouldn't have finished it. It is good, Mrs Malovic, that a working group is formed that will work thoroughly and studioically on the criminal code. Not only is there a man in that task force who has absolutely proved his anti-Serbism, and that's Mr. Grubach. In previous trials before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, he unequivocally demonstrated this, besides that Stojanovic, that's what I thought was called the drunk one. It is good that you intend to include, in a team that will work on this bill, important experts, to include the top of our legal sciences and legal thoughts, to include prosecutors, to include testified judges, judges who have results behind them, to include lawyers from names and renomes, because it can only turn out to be a good law, a law that we will discuss here and adopt it. This law on criminal proceedings was passed in 2006, I think, and was delayed for a year and a half. Now the second time is delayed. Of course, Mrs. Malovic, you are not to blame for this, but it is the government's fault, at the very end of the line, because it proposed that law that required certain preparations, a certain period of time and a certain amount of resources to be applied. When you transfer a full investigation to a segment called the prosecution, then you must both materially, both human and spatially prepare the service so that the job can work and the law can apply. In this case, when we finally apply this law, the prosecutor as the head of the team who will lead from criminal charges through an investigation, through a lawsuit, through a trial, to a verdict, the whole process must have an office, that is, there is room where only he will sit and receive parties, where these defendants will come, where the police will come to help him prepare and collect documentation, data, etc. On the other hand, investigative judges are likely to be transferred either to guilt, or to a lawsuit, or to another department. If we didn't bring the state back into a situation to discuss it in a minute to twelve, we would have discussed the budget last night until ten o'clock, and if we hadn't adopted it, it would have gone to temporary funding. However, if we hadn't passed this bill, we would have been in a situation since the new year that justice in the state of Serbia can't work at all. You know that when police arrests have the right to hold 48 hours, so the convicted criminals caught in the act, the killers would even have to be released after 48 hours. You're really putting parliament in a position where it has to adopt something in a minute to twelve. This isn't the first law. The budget law wasn't even the first law. Before that, we had the Law on travel documents, where we brought people who went, say, come back after New Year's, and get into a situation that they couldn't go back to the country, or those who were supposed to travel for the New Year, to get into a situation that they couldn't travel. Once again, the government's incompetence and disorganization are being broken through parliament. Parliament would be guilty in this case of why no travel documents law has been passed, why no budget law has been passed, why in this case this law has not been passed. The proposal for that law on criminal proceedings is relatively good, perhaps it could be corrected with a few more things both from practice and from the amendments of the SRS MPs. He's inapplicable now. I understand that you have to prepare a full set of laws in the area of justice to enter Europe when Dinkic and these take us there, but we must imitate our laws with EU laws. Do not bring the state into such a situation that in a minute to twelve, the National Assembly must remove chestnuts from the fire.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12084	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12085	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. I suppose you know, but if you don't know, President Tadic, in accordance with his powers, has replaced Chief of General Staff Zdravko Ponos and thus fully respected the conclusion of the Defence and Security Committee, which has made it clear that the attack of the Chief of Staff has led to the threat of civilian control, which translates into the possibility that the military might intervene in some way. This is just the first part of the job to be done. The Chief of Staff in no way dared to go public like this, and he suffered the consequences of his act. We now expect the second part, which is also extremely important, and these are the reasons put forward by Chief of Staff Zdravko Ponos regarding the Ministry of Defence and particularly related to the defence minister. I personally think that everything you have had the opportunity to hear in the means of public information, and also on the Committee on Defence and Security, makes it clear to everyone that the situation in the Ministry of Defence is catastrophic on all elements. All documents that should have been brought so far have not been delivered. Everything that is done in the Ministry is done upside down and practically the Ministry is subordinated to one man and serves to promote it. Also, the Chief of Staff accused Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac of practically building a party army, accusing him of a large number of colonels, generals and other members of the army entering the defence ministry, which suggests a party army of DS is being created. What is most difficult in all this, Mr. Zdravko Ponos unequivocally cites some facts regarding abuses by the Ministry of Defence and the Minister, when it comes to tenders, when it comes to the sale of military property. He defined it very precisely. What's been created for 200 years and what the army has now privatized itself with absolutely no way to do it. What is particularly tragic, precisely because of the lack of all these documents that are important, we can come into a situation that these funds, which would have been used to develop or reach that degree or level that we need, will be spent and that we will never again be in a position to restore the army. These are so hard accusations, if said by someone in a much, much more insignificant place, they deserve attention to examine things in detail and solve problems. It is obvious that Dragan Sutanovac is one of the most unfortunate solutions when it comes to the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which General Zdravko Ponos and defined... (President: Time. Here, I'm done. and sincerely, I do believe that Boris Tadic, as president of the Republic, as president of the National Security Council, must not remain only halfway away, that the matter must be completed by the end and that a man who has not only professional abilities but also people and all others who should be adorned by each minister, especially when it comes to the defence minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12086	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12087	Ladies and gentlemen, in the past few years, there has been almost no day for Serbian citizens to be literally bombarded with messages that the adoption of a law depends on a better life and a better future. Folkly speaking, there is always a law hanging over Serbian citizens' heads. First, it was the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, so you have the SAA, the Trade Agreement with the EU and various other laws. It's about replacing thesis. It is extremely important that one country has the necessary laws, that these laws be quality. However, whether Serbian citizens will live better and whether, most importantly in this case, Serbia will be a legal state depends not on the number of laws, but depends on how these laws are implemented and how they are implemented. The fact is, they're not being properly implemented. I'll just give you a few examples. There's been a lot of talk in public about the Rushet case for a few days now. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, it seems to me to be called Strahinja Raseta, two nights ago he had to be in a New Sad prison, however, he planted bombs in Belgrade instead of in prison. As you know, a man was recently sentenced to years of imprisonment. The police led him to prison, however magically, an hour after he was brought into prison, a man was released. In a little bit of the past, we have a case called Bugsy. The man has been accused of trying to assassinate the Serbian prime minister. A day or two later released with an explanation that it is necessary, urgent to go home to feed the pigs. So a broken link could have prevented the prime minister's murder. In a debate on a set of judicial laws, it was mentioned here that more than 4,500 cases, court proceedings, were outdated in Serbia. These cases are not outdated anyway because the laws were bad, but because the judges weren't doing their job. The next case where we can see what our judiciary is like, as we respect existing laws, is a case of drug abuse. The drugstore in this country has long been marked as a major social evil, and everyone agrees on that. There is a quality legal regulation, however, there is a practice that even the biggest drug dealers in the trials pass mostly with parole or with symbolic time sentences. The next case that is very indicative is privatisation. Through the privatisation process, the state was robbed. It's probably tens of billions of euros stolen. There is almost no privatisation that at least some court procedure was not conducted by workers, either by stakeholders involved in the privatisation process, so they did not fall short of them to get a particular company. However, there are almost no convictions. I'll state one particular case. The Velika Plana privatises the catering and tourist company Šumadija, to make it clearer, there is a famous Old Oak Motel on the Belgrade-Nish highway. The company has a business area of about 3,900 square meters. It's been sold for approximately 100,000 euros. You know what turned out in the end? There are documents signed by a public prosecutor, there are court proceedings, unfortunately none of them are completed by a conviction, there are unquestionable documents, I once brought it here to the Assembly, when selling companies in the privatisation papers by the company's directors, it shows that the total area of all the facilities that the company has around 1,500 square meters. More than 2,000 square metres of the company has been covered up as a non-existent, however it was later registered to the new owner. I mentioned here that there wasn't even a corporate administration building at the bidding in the privatisation process. There's a whole restaurant gone, there's a complete warehouse space gone, etc. Workers have filed several dozen lawsuits, however, no trial has been completed by a conviction, in fact, the processes have not been completed yet, stand in certain drawers. There are no citizens of Serbia who have not heard about the police white book in the past few years. There, when you take that book, you read nicely who committed how many murders, who committed how many rapes, who's a drug dealer, who's a terrorist. However, when you finish reading that book, or reading newspapers or watching television where these characters appear as the main heroes who are supposed to be the role model for our children, you have the opportunity to meet these people freely walking around the city and, as I said, appear as public figures in the newspaper, on television. Police inform Serbian citizens that among them are thieves, criminals, killers, drug dealers, and these same people walk freely in Serbia. The last example, we've been in a state of emergency for five or six years now when it comes to the discovery of some affairs, some mafias, so we have a bankruptcy mafia, a road mob, a construction mafia, a trade mafia, an educational mafia and dozens of other real and fictional mafias. As far as all these mobs are concerned, all the crimes they have committed have been brought to trial, but I don't know if there are any convictions. These people are not freed because they are not guilty, they are not freed because there is no evidence, but because they have obviously enjoyed certain political protection or have bribed judges and members of the judicial council through corruption. We can adopt new laws every day, you can convince Serbian citizens that this is essential for our better life, for our faster entry into Europe, however, it is not true that Serbia will live, whether Serbia will be a legal state, depends on whether and how prosecutors and judges do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12088	Mrs. Verica Radeta, you've got 20 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12089	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, colleague of Bosko Ristic, you say a smart man can say anything in three minutes. Why don't you try coming out sometime, even a minute, and let's see how smart you are? Last night, a regular session of this Parliament was concluded late last fall, and if there had been reason and responsibility in the government of the Republic of Serbia, it would have been done in another way, by passing some other laws, the budget would have been passed when it was time, that is, when Parliament's obligation to bring it, and that is December 15th. However, the government is as it is and it is really necessary that today, at an unusual extraordinary session, immediately after the regular session was concluded last night, we need to take a brief look at what we did during the regular session and what Serbia has received from it, what Serbian citizens have received from the work of this parliament. I would like to remind the public of Serbia, first of all, that you fellow MPs, of course, know that on the agenda, among other things, there was a law amending the Law on travel documents, that because of the irresponsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we were almost in a situation that Serbian citizens would not be able to travel outside the country because in time we had not received a proposal to extend the Law on Travel Documents. The SRS MPs, as always when it comes to the interest of the Serbian citizens, have shown full responsibility and we have stopped talking about some amendments so that the National Assembly in the voting day could vote on the Law extending the Law on travel documents and I want Serbian citizens to know that they can travel, of course if the representatives of the authorities have not already handed out their resignations if they have some dinar. As far as travel documents are concerned, thanks to the state-of-the-art of the SRS, we have made it possible for the law to be passed and the citizens to travel wherever they want to go. Of course, unfortunately, some major number of citizens, even if they want to, will be able to travel somewhere, given that news in the paper has taken place today, say trade unions as much as are preparing to quit because of unfinished privatisations, you are late with the law again, but that is the government's manners. Pensions are actually reduced, wages are also, inflation is, citizens know it well when they enter the store, much bigger than the one they're talking about. Yesterday we were talking about the law, and last night we finished discussing the budget law. Last night, I watched a rerun of yesterday's afternoon show when one of the DS analysts told Serbian citizens who would be badly hit by SRS MPs because they would not get the budget, because the SRS MPs have no understanding of citizens' problems. We also showed last night that we are a serious and responsible party. We've given up the debate on a number of amendments. We offered the minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, to vote for these amendments to make the budget better. You've brought, you've adopted the budget with the good will of the opposition. Alone, as a ruling coalition and as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you couldn't do it and the citizens should know. But Serbian citizens need to know something else. Some colleagues said the Budget Law was very bad. It is true, the Budget Law is very bad, but Serbian citizens should know that the Serbian government has again set up the Budget Law and now we have passed the law, but we do not have the following laws and there is no possibility that the budget will be filled in accordance with these laws. So they're free of budget when there's no money in the budget. Again, if there were responsibilities and seriousness in the government, we would, even before the budget, if it were established, or certain that not all acts could be adopted by the end of the regular session, then it would be more necessary to adopt those laws, among other laws on customs rates, administrative fees, etc., so that the budget could be filled in accordance with the proposal, or already adopted budget, or in line with the projection, as you from the authorities like to say, the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, we also pointed out in yesterday's debate on all budget deficits, budget law, but we also showed that we have citizens' interests ahead of all other interests. We will always behave like this, unlike those who were expelled from the SRS, led by Tomislav Nikolic, who won TV last night with a national news frequency that he faked in public, which is that the SRS, so that you can vote, for the budget of the rules of a combination, and among other things got two million euros. It was published this morning in this Gilas-Vučić newsletter and in some daily newspaper. It's a spread of false news. We Serbian radicals, as well as Serbian citizens, are convinced that they know that we would never act in this way and that we haven't done it now, but that there would be no public disturbance and that this false news would not be further spread, we are asking and insisting that Boris Tadic, Dusan Petrovic, Ivica Dacic, Diana Dragutinovic, Prime Minister Cvetkovic, say to the Serbian public whether they gave Serbian radicals two million euros to vote on the Budget Law. We claim that it's false news, that it's rumors, and that whoever countered it thinks that if he took the money and he's willing to sell it, everyone's ready. We Serbian radicals have never been prepared for such a thing, and we will not. In this previous period we spoke, we launched and successfully we Serbian radicals, to one level successfully ended the Kristo affair, an affair with public enterprises. Also, I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that thanks to us from the SRS, what some newspapers have written, that Bojan Kristo paid for only one month in the name of the earnings to himself around 11,000 euros, that this has triggered the avalanche of stories in this parliament and that it has actually forced the Government of the Republic of Serbia to say and to bring the regulation to the presidents and members of the boards of directors in public enterprises of some 300, 400, 500, 600,000 dinars at the level of average earnings. It is, therefore, an exclusive credit to the SRS, but the government hasn't finished this whole job. Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic told us, and now I remind you publicly, as soon as we begin to continue our work in 2009, of course we will immediately search for it, so Mrs. Dragutinovic said that at Belgrade Airport, because of possible malversions, that is to say, we are not prejudicing anything, the real business, that budgetary and financial inspection is being sent, and that this inspection will complete its work on December 31st. That's tomorrow, so we expect the first working day of the following year for the MPs to get that report, so that we can discuss it further. Mr. Todorovic had just informed the National Assembly that the agency news had appeared that Boris Tadic, in accordance with his constitutional powers, had replaced General Ponos, that I am now stressing the great credit for why the resolution of this affair, right on the SRS MPs, on the Defence and Security Committee, which reached its conclusion and respected that conclusion in one part, i.e. for the time being, the president of the state, Boris Tadic. I am now asking Mrs. Nada Kolundzija to plead whether and now, after Boris Tadic's decision, she is ready to claim that the Security Committee was a circus organised by Dragan Todorovic? We claimed it was a serious session, with a serious agenda. The result of the board's conclusion is that Boris Tadic has replaced Ponos. But there's still one unfinished business left. We also received information from Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, that exactly what Sutanovac said about the media, that he asked for and that a financial inspection was sent to the Ministry of Defence. We're waiting for that report. We'll see what that report tells us. Miss dear, if you're willing to warn me on time from the scene, you're free to leave, more than half of the DS MPs have come out. You're only here to vote. You've been walking all day, walk freely. You have seven minutes left, Mrs. Radeta. ) Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, since you did not want to hear that my colleague warned me on time, I must defend myself, when you will not defend the integrity of the MP. So today's session and the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure also discusses the irresponsibility and inability of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today's session and constructive approach to Serbian radicals is also talking about how we are a state-of-the-art party and that we are working in this way today because of the interests of Serbian citizens. When this law was already on the agenda, and it was at that previous session, we warned you, we talked about the bill - we warned you that you had made a terrible mistake, Mrs. Malovic. Why did you give the MPs that set of very, very bad laws on justice, in the area of the judiciary, the worst of those laws, which most MPs think are the worst, even from the ruling coalition. They also showed this by applying the amendments to the bill at that time. So you've allowed the worst law in the area of justice to be passed -- that's the Law on the Territorial Organisation of Judicial Authorities -- that's the abolition of over 100 courts in Serbia. Believe me, it's going to be a very ugly career spot for you. We are still convinced that this law will not be applied, that you will not create conditions for its application, as you did not create conditions for the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, this law should still be on the agenda and be in place of those bad laws and that, without any precedent, the prosecution, or investigative judges, could continue their work the way they've done so far until the law changes, if it doesn't change. You, Mrs. Malovic, have given us a proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure, the big, fat text. The emissary shows his hand. Yes, that's what you pulled and a few days after you let him into the assembly procedure, then the government withdrew that proposal with your, here, explanation -- that it's such a bad proposal, that there are so many failures, that there are so many technical errors, that it's inapplicable. You said everything we said in our time when that law was passed. Now, the logical question -- what you let us do in the process of that law before you read it, so when you read it or someone distracted you, then you said it was very bad and that you now formed another working group, which will determine, that the government is proposing a draft of a new code on criminal proceedings. It is a legitimate right, and this law really needs to be changed, and there is nothing controversial about that part, you have no reason to frown, but I am talking about the government's bad moves, such as the government's bad move and this proposal that has to be voted in the Assembly, because since you've been DOS in power, we Serbian radicals have not shown our understanding today, and we haven't accepted that it's only in principle about this law, just to remind me that this law has two members, so we have been able to submit two amendments and that this debate ends here now at two, half three. Those two amendments should not be discussed until tomorrow, from the moment this session is over. We could've worked today and by midnight, so tomorrow night, at midnight tomorrow, we could've started a new session and brought back to the collapse of the judicial organs. We did not want to do this because we are MPs and we are working in the interest of our people, unlike you from the ruling majority and the difference between you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You were in the first one, since you had already withdrawn this from the agenda, and this short bill, you then suggested that it should be extended, from 31 December 2008, to 31, it seems to me, July 2009, and then you remembered that it was impossible, rather than 31 December 2010, given that some judicial laws from that set of laws came into effect only on 1 January 2010. Here, remember Mrs. Malovic and let the citizens of Serbia remember, we will again have an extension of the deadline for this law, as well as for some other law in the set of judicial laws, because you from the ruling majority are unable to create, I apologize, or you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, unable to create conditions for the application of the laws that you provide to us here in the weather. We worked on Saturdays and Sundays, day and night. Of course, it is not a problem for us Serbian radicals that we are working as MPs, but we are always in principle fighting for the application of the Rules of Procedure and working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In that previous bill, Mrs. Malovic, you said - this law would enter into force on December 30th. I told you it's impossible. You've nodded my head then - it's possible, it's possible. Here, you see, it's impossible. You wrote today that it's in effect... (President: Time. On the day of publication. I'm done, thank you. So we accepted Serbian radicals to discuss the Code of Criminal Procedure in this way, so that gentlemen of the judiciary, so that Serbian citizens can function normally, that the judiciary can function normally, that there is no third in a row of collapse, just because these DOS authorities are incompetent.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12090	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude the search in principle, I ask if anyone else who has not used their right to Article 93 has been granted. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? Let me just close the original search, and I'll give you my word. I'm finishing the initial search. Two colleagues reported to the Rules of Procedure. First of all, she has the word Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12091	Dear Members of the People, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225, 226 and 104, and I will finally refer the matter to the competent authorities. I thought the moral and political fall of Tomislav Nikolic came to an end, but he daily, convincingly demonstrates that he can fall even lower. Mr Tomislav Nikolic himself confirmed that he no longer ruled himself, when he admitted to acting as his organism demands, or as his urges require. We've seen that so far his organism has demanded of him. His organism required him to destroy his friend and best man, Vojislav Seselj, at any cost. His organism asked him to destroy the party he spent 18 years in at any cost. His organism asked him to lie to the best of us, to steal party records. His organism asked him to break the oath he took at the church. His organism required him to extract the messengers for his hair. His organization also urged him yesterday to make a scandalous statement, to tell incredible lies, which is -- that the request by the SRS to give up discussions on the amendments was to get 2m euros. Everything else he listed, which is therefore related to the mandates of the SRS and to the position of the chairman of the Administrative Board, are legitimate requirements of the SRS that have been known to the public since the beginning. However, from reliable sources, we learn that his friend, therefore, is a friend of Nikolic's, Mr. US Ambassador Manter, is pressing the DS to keep the SRS from returning to its mandates. Mr Nikolic, who, by his own admission, no longer rules himself, should know that what makes people different from animals is that people are not driven by raw impulses. Mr Nikolic admitted in his statement that he was not handling moral principles, but impulses and could be completely understandable that a man, who with an incredible ease had trampled on what he had been saying and thought for 18 years, could be more easily trampled on by others. However, the SRS will not go over Tomislav Nikolic's scandalous statement and will urgently demand that Boris Tadic, Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Minister Dacic declare this invention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12092	Mr. Jojic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12093	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking a question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I am reporting under the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. For the tenth time, I am calling on the government of the Republic of Serbia to declare whether it intends to take action to resolve the issue, agony and misery of 1,500 Azotara workers in Pancheva. The public is well known, and so do you, that the nitrogen fertilizer factory in Pancheva has been closed since the new owners bought it. In the factory since 1963, fertilizer has been produced for the entire SFRY and the factory has been valuable in helping farmers and citizens of Serbia. What is disastrous is the biggest robbery that was committed in this factory in Serbia, because the new Carbamid 2 factory, which was to be launched, the bookkeeping value of 45m euros, that the new owners had demonized it, loaded it into trains, taken abroad and sold it for 32m euros. However, the Privatisation Agency concluded an annex contract, very harmful and criminal, to the detriment of workers, so it remained on the street of 1,500 workers. Since today's Panchev City Assembly is meeting, and today the council members of the Panchev City Assembly have spoken about this issue and asked to take measures from the government of the Republic of Serbia to protect the interests of the citizens of Panchevo, or workers who are employed, if they support their large families, about four thousand souls live from the factory. I'm looking for an answer, since tomorrow's deadline for the termination of the contract is due and customers are invited to resolve the staff issue. The state must take certain measures, take over the factory, so that the factory can produce agricultural fertilizer, and it does not produce agricultural fertilisers for our farmers from the moment this factory was sold to privates. The City Hall’s committees discussed this today. I ask an answer to the question - what will be on 31 December 2008 and what measures will the Government of the Republic of Serbia take? This is the biggest robbery in Serbia in years, as it is worth 45m euros, the accounting value of the factory. I specifically ask you, Madam President, to forward this question to the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it finally declares what measures will be taken and will it take to protect that poor girl who is on the street today, and they are a large number? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-30-0.u12094	Thank you. The question will be referred. Dear People's MPs, since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, the National Assembly has thus concluded a debate on the only item on the agenda of this session. Starting with that, and pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 30.12.2008, starting at 15.20 p.m. as the day for voting on the single agenda of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. [[After break – 15.25]] According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move on to the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, in principle. For 132, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill confirmed that the law takes effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. In the light of the Bill's proposal, the Government cited particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force before the eighth day of its publication, which consists in the need for a timely delay in the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No. 46/06 and 49/07), which is due to be applied on 31 December 2008, since this code provides for the introduction of a prosecutor's investigation, which is currently not subject to material and technical conditions, so that the application of this code is not possible. Without delay, the application of this code would have adverse consequences under the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia and citizens' rights. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than eight days from the day of its publication. One out of 132 MPs didn't vote for 131. The National Assembly has determined that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, in general. For 132, of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I am concluding the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Let me wish, on your behalf and on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, a happy new year in 2009, for all of us and for the citizens of Serbia this year to be a year of health, love, personal, family prosperity, to get along nicely and to work towards the benefit of Serbian citizens in this Parliament. It's all very beautiful.
