ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4916	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 140 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 107 MPs are present at this point, i.e. more than 1/3 of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry Aleksandar Veljkovic, Head of the Interior Ministry and Nenad Banovic, Head of the Interior Ministry. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the State Border (Statistics) You have received amendments that have been made on the proposal... Mrs. Susana Grubjesic, according to the Rules of Procedure, first reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I know it's not common for someone from the ruling coalition to report to the Rules of Procedure, but of course it's our right. I am using this right now and reporting under Article 226, which reads: "The National MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues under the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. '"I'll explain why I answered and why I'm going to ask a parliamentary question. Last week, October 14th, the acting director of "Srbigas", Sasa Ilic, was in Moscow and without the knowledge of the Management Board, signed an annex contract with "Yugorosgas" worth 700m euros. This is the amount of gas needed for all of 2009 or, more specifically, 2,390 million cubic metres. The director has the right to sign a contract or an annex contract only to the value of two million euros, and I ask how it is possible for the director of "Serbiagas" to sign this 700m-euro contract annex and subsequently seek the consent of the Management Board. The session of the Srbigas Management Board is scheduled for tomorrow, 22nd. October, and the fifth item of the agenda is the ratification of this signed annex contract with Jugorosgas. At the value of this 700m-euro contract, Jugorosgas took a 35m-euro commission. Why did he travel to Moscow to sign this contract annex? The contracts have usually been signed in Belgrade so far. Is that because he's looking for a place in some future Russian NIS? That's what's left to see. Is it possible that v. d. Director "Srbigas" sign such a significant contract, i.e. an annex without prior consent of the Management Board? It would normally be that this item of the agenda should be removed from the Management Board's session tomorrow and discussed by a new convocation of the Management Board or that existing members, the current members of the Management Board, vote against such a decision by the Director. Otherwise, this gentleman is also vice president of the Jugorosgas Management Board. I ask this question to the resolution minister by function, Mr. Petar Skundric, but I think that maybe Police Minister Ivica Dacic will be able to answer this question, because this contract and this type of contract signing is harmful to the citizens of Serbia and directly affects the price of gas, which we have been having discussions about in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia these few days. I ask that, within the time limit provided for the answers to the parliamentary questions, I be given the answer to this question. Or I'll repeat the question next time with some more details after tomorrow's session of the Srbiagas Management Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4918	Ladies and gentlemen, since I haven't opened the session yet, we practically can't talk, I'll give you my word, let me just open the session. I'm taking a 15-minute break. [[After break, 15.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. According to the Rules of Procedure, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4920	Madam President, the Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting under Rule 31. The Rules of Procedure, which says the vice presidents of the National Assembly, are helping the president of the National Assembly to do business from its work. As vice president of the Assembly, I feel that I have the authority and I have the right to assist the President of the Assembly in the work and to point out several important facts that have been discussed in the past few days. In fact, since 1 October of this year, when a new gas price came into force, the LDP has insisted that the price is inadequate, that it is not justified, that it is not justified. First of all, I'd like to remind you of three important facts that are the main arguments to these claims. First, it is an illegal sale of state-owned enterprises to a foreign owner, which has left the state unequal participation in the right of ownership of Jugorosgas. We know that these 25% shares have been sold, without respecting a law that requires respect for the right to prevent purchases and that the NIS has asked to buy those 25%. However, the government did not respond to a reasoned offer by the NIS. Thus, the question arises whether the contract is of full importance. Secondly, since 2001, the first time a gas trade mediator, Jugorosgas, has been introduced, which automatically collects the price of gas, has been introduced. Thirdly, Jugorosgas did not respect the contractual provisions that oblige him to store gas at the Banat Court to the extent that gas needed for the winter period can be stored, so that gas would not be bought at the highest price immediately before the winter season. These are the circumstances that obviously lead to an enormous accumulation of gas... (President: Time, Mrs Popovic. ) For this reason, as Vice President of the Assembly... (President: Time. I'm sorry, just to finish, it's very important. I propose that all MPs, MPs' clubs submit a proposal to the Serbian Parliament to draw conclusions within the meaning of Articles 134, 160 and 161. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The conclusion should be as follows - The National Assembly asks the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Mining and Energy to take the first... (President: Please speak 45 seconds longer, bring the end. ( ) Let me just read, since this is very important for the work of this National Assembly and is of great importance to our citizens. (President: I cannot allow you, your MP group is making remarks which I do not respond after three minutes. Madam President, if you hadn't had any of the obvious objections to time over time, I could have ended it. (President: Speak for more than a minute, you have exceeded more than a minute. Allow me, in that argument with you, it's been that minute. So, I'd really like to pray, respect the work... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4921	You don't have a word. National MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 33 relating to the Secretary of the National Assembly, where point 2 is said to be the head of the National Assembly. Before I start talking about what the Rules of Procedure has been broken, somehow this exit of Mrs. Susane Grubeshic reminds me of some time and that historic sentence - Laki is a little nervous. Although, I think it's early, but it was expected. You know all these reasons. One of these reasons is the withdrawal of the SRS mandate and the possibility of the yellow company getting a spare shoulder, a spare party, to continue to rule. Obviously, it has cost many parties in the coalition, what to do, their legitimate right, but it is not the right for foreigners who did not go to the elections to be given mandates in the Serbian Parliament to chair committees. What is particularly important is that they have support for it in the Serbian Parliament. Among other things, for the second time, we happen to be in the rooms of the SRS Parliament Club, at a time when there are no MPs, someone enters, rips phone lines, moves furniture, refers to things, which we have first warned about, believing that this will stop working and that the Secretary of the National Assembly, in accordance with its powers and Article 33, will take care of the work of the National Assembly, and will prevent these things from happening. You know that the keys of all the offices are in the portatory, that only the MPs of that parliamentary group and those employed in that parliamentary group can receive them, if they have the need to enter the premises for their work. Unfortunately, although we sent a letter on October 20th... I'm sorry, you're out of time, I just wanted to warn you. [[off microphone]] Bring the end. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4923	In connection with the allegations, as we did, we provided you with written information from the Department of Personal Security and Property of the Department of Security of the National Assembly, from which you could see that on October 20th the host of the building, Dragan Jelic, with two auxiliary workers, visited the premises you spoke about, in which workers had previously performed the works, to make sure that the office furniture, which was moved because of the above, was restored to the original state, and the movement was due to the painting and the usual arrangement of the space. If you're not satisfied with these letters either... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: We didn't even get it. You didn't get it? You'll be served within a few minutes, because we've arrived. You'll get the word, but now it's Gordana Pop-Lazic's turn, only if she wants to give it to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4924	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, what you said may be true, but it is not. First, I didn't get that written notice, which is what more correctness does before the session starts, so I asked the Secretary of the Assembly what's going on with this, and he told me he'd give it to me, because I said I'd ask this question as a pay phone. So, I wasn't going to go out for a pay phone at all and ask this question that I got this written notice and that I was satisfied with that written notice. Given these facts that you have presented, Mrs Djukic, I am immediately telling you that I am not satisfied with this notice, because after entering, if those officials or workers of the Serbian Parliament entered, a picture of a citizen was found in the rooms of the SRS Parliament club on the poster. It says, Mrs Dejanovic, that this is about intent and that it is deliberately provoking the SRS for the account of a man who took the mandate of the SRS, who absolutely had no right to do so, and you are still in the Assembly allowing those who took the mandate instead of returning the mandate, in this way shows that it has the support of the ruling majority and who knows what we can yet expect what you will allow those who serve you for the reserve. What can we expect? One day we come to the second floor, and you say we can't go there because we don't answer to you as an opposition party, and that it's a constructive opposition that will do everything when it comes to state and material interests, especially this other, and that, in line with these interests, they will vote on the proposals of the ruling majority. These are the things you have to take care of. What is particularly important, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I have been in this House since '92. It's never happened, it's never happened that someone enters the premises of a Parliament club and this is how they provoke another parliamentary group. What would that look like? Imagine that at that moment, I end up, by chance, that an SRS MP came to see what they were doing, you think about what that could lead to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4925	We've been trying to get you information on everything that's been going on as soon as possible. If you are not satisfied, there are other options for your reactions. Mr. Zeljko Tomic picked up the phone. Here you go. You're giving up. Thank you. Ivan Andric, also giving up? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4926	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by art. 77th and a half. 104, Madam Chairman, you are really insulting us by persistently ignoring the facts brought here by the MPs. So, I don't know if you heard correctly, and I'll tell you again. So, during the past week, the director of Serbiagas travelled to Moscow and signed a 700m-euro contract guaranteeing a 35m-euro commission to Jugorosgas. How many households in Serbia can pay gas for that money? So I'm asking you to stop ignoring what's going on outside of this room and in accordance with Article 77. The Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament schedule an emergency, during today's session of the Committee on Industry, and I propose from this speaker that the conclusion of the Committee on Industry be a binding guide for the Management Board of Serbia, that it cannot confirm the contract at tomorrow's session. The government doesn't mean to do anything, we understand that. The government has accepted the fact that gas cannot be cheap, has made a decision to increase, is deafening all demands that the price is impossible to pay and is trying to address the consequences. So I admire the courage of the head of the G17 parliamentary group to announce it. But now I ask you, who is this Sasha Ilic? How did he find himself in the position of Director of Serbiagas? Well, she named him the coalition, whose member you were last year. How do you address the public now? The request is totally unacceptable that the National Assembly is now waiting 40 days for an answer. That's either going to be settled today or there's no need to solve it. The session of the Management Board of Serbiagas is scheduled for tomorrow. The government and parliament must today draw conclusions that make it impossible for the Serbiagas Management Board to sign the contract. Everything after tomorrow doesn't matter anymore. The contract has been signed and we will pay, and unless you come to your senses and cancel it, Serbia will pay for the penalty. Serbia, therefore, means Serbian citizens, on behalf of an irresponsible government headed. In the course of the gathering, obstruction of the Assembly, etc. The ruling majority only decides on divorce. One day the gas mafia, the second day it is this, the third day it is that, and the gas accumulates 60%, is again signed with a mediator whose commission is 35m euros. This is where the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, sits. What will the government do about it? Serbia had no gas broker under the government of Zoran Djindjic in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, until the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That's the source of the election, it's the government's decision to give 35m euros to a foreign-owned company, that means the decision. Your ignoring, Mrs. Dejanovic, means supporting that decision. (President: time)... Well, there's time, and we're gonna be checking in on the Rules of Procedure all day, until we can make this right.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4927	Mr. Andric, the moment Mrs. Susana Grubjesic asked the government, at the moment we were technically organized to make the issue and forward to the government. So it's not possible to have him at the same time, I mean the answer, I do, as you ask the question. That's why my suggestion was to start working today and wait for the answer while we're working. I think it would be in the interest of the reputation and efficiency of this House. I suggest we wait for the MPs to respond, technically send it to the government at the moment when you've had objections that I didn't do it. So that warrant has already been given and that seems already to be the case. I really ask you to work on the agenda today, and while the session continues to wait for an answer to the questions that will obviously be asked in different ways. Are you satisfied with my answer? You're not. All right. Mr. Free Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I ask for the Assembly to declare in the voting day that the President of the Assembly has injured a member of the 100th Rules of Procedure, after giving the People's MP Suzanne Grubjesic a word over the line, after which she said that she could not give the other MPs a word because she did not open the session. But it's much less a problem than what's the point. You want us to keep quiet. You want us to not say a word about what's going on in this society, and if we say so, try to close something like that through all the media and then don't let the Assembly talk yet. What she opened up as a major problem for Mrs Grubjesic, so continued Mr Andric, trying to say Mrs Judith, is a terrible problem. Guys, we've been talking about Jugorosgas for days, and at the same time, Mr. Dacic, you told us yesterday that what happened before wasn't your government's responsibility. This is the responsibility of your government, the resolute minister, Mr. Skundric, who had the cheek to come here last week and express his regret that the price of gas had jumped. At the same time, "Serbigas" is making a reception at the Hayat Hotel, richly, as they know it. At the same time, Director Sasa Ilic, Vice-President of Jugorosgas, goes to Moscow, makes a contract with Jugorosgas, worth 700,000m euros, which, fortunately, is conditional. So if tomorrow's board meeting is decided that the contract is valid, Jugorosgas will take 35m euros from citizens of Serbia. We've been trying to say that these days. It's your responsibility. You're the first vice president of the government. I ask you to do everything in your power to stop something like this. It is obvious that there is a will in the ruling majority, among certain parties, not to allow such a thing. Sasa Ilic's old frame, which Sasa Ilic remained from the previous government... You know very well whose coalition partner. This is totally embarrassing, that the MPs of the DS are getting - whose is it. Your coalition partner from the last government, the DSS, who was appointed by Srdjan Bosnjakovic, brought back by Nenad Canak to the NIS, who is your current partner in the government. So the point is that you're trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4929	Please, allow Mr. Marash to be heard, please be quiet. Go on, Mr. Marash. Will you allow Mr. Maras to be heard, Mr. Todorovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4930	You've tried the last few days talking about the gas mob to try to cloud what's the point. The point is to keep your mouth shut and let things like this happen and not react. We, Mr. Vice President, are asking you again, this is a political issue. We made an oil-gas deal with the Russians, we have one valid, under much worse conditions. You said yesterday that your partner, or your party colleague, Mr. Skundric, the energy minister, is not responsible for the gas collection, is not guilty of what was going on in Jugorosgas, that Jugorosgas became 75% Russian property. This is what he's responsible for. We want to see the final account of Serbiaagas. I think it's a key question of any public enterprise, so let's see what's going on. What do citizens pay 60% for? You're trying in every way to show that this is a political score. That's not the point. The point here is that there is no political responsibility for those who run this government. Mr. Dacic, please do everything, and you Madam Presidents do everything you can to schedule a committee and to discuss this issue today, we don't have time for 40 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4931	Thank you. Mr. Buha has the opportunity to call a session of the Committee, as he did in the previous days. Mr. Zoran Krasic answered the words, but before I inform you that today we will be working on a agenda that will be at 1800 hours until the end of the agenda. If you don't allow it, it's good that it's transmitted and that citizens have a chance to see it, if you don't allow it, it's something you're going to impose. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4932	I think it's a good thing it's a direct transmission and citizens have a chance to see everything. I'm referring to Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and I believe that what you've been doing for several months as president of the National Assembly is really scandalous and that this is destroying the foundations of this country. You see, the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the regulations do not prohibit you from having a hot, current topic, where the State and the National Assembly are to react quickly, you can schedule the next session, you can also suggest the conclusion on the inclusion of specific points of the agenda, however, you do not want to or should not do so, and therefore you open up daily interviews that do not receive an answer, neither the public knows what it is, nor what the final effects are. Just a reminder, you managed to build a political party in a month and a half. You managed to keep four board presidents, even though those people should be in jail. Just to draw your attention, Tomislav Nikolic has concluded some agreement that no one knows what the contract is, so he created a commitment of 68 million and you see that as a syndrome occurs at the state level, so now we have had the opportunity to hear that someone has concluded a 700-million contract. Fortunately, the state has the opportunity to stop it, and we haven't had the opportunity to stop it because it's all privatized by a man. Why is that? Because there was a lack of reaction, because the National Assembly was prevented from responding urgently to day-to-day political events. We haven't solved the question KIM. We have problems with Montenegro and Macedonia. The KIM minister is more their minister than our minister. You're negotiating with Eulex to establish a connection. You're looking and you're on your way to KIM's confession. The problem of Vojvodina opens, the problem of gas opens, wherever you turn, the problem opens up. Have you solved any problems? You haven't solved any problems. You're opening problems, you're calling for a distorted interpretation of this Rules of Procedure, and you're telling us every day, to all Serbian citizens, what the Constitution guarantees you, this government is denying you, it's not in your life. Cheating pensioners, cheating on this, all livingly deceived, and here you stick to some Rules of Procedure and some provisions that destroy life.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4933	The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4934	I refer again to Article 31, and I also refer to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. First of all, what is happening in this congregation, and without any effect on the work of the government, I find it scandalous, that it is against life, the real life that is taking place outside this hall, and it is contrary to common sense. For all these reasons, since we don't have time anymore, and the issue of gas prices is the most prompt, most urgent issue right now in this country, we think it's time to do something and we don't have time for questions anymore. So questions and answers have passed as far as this congregation is concerned. Now it's time to do something. For this reason, the LDP proposes that all MPs of this assembly reach one consensus and jointly draw one conclusion. I would read this conclusion to you now, but I would very much ask you to at least try to listen carefully to what I read to you, to show in some simple way that you are willing and that you want to do something for the citizens of Serbia, and that it is not just for some verbal expression and support of poor citizens. Since we have been celebrating the day of the fight against poverty in the past week, it would be good to do something, not only to talk about poverty, but the price of gas and how it affects the poverty of the country's population. Therefore, pursuant to Articles 134, 160 and 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the light of their constitutional and legal obligations, propose that the next conclusion be made on the taking of emergency measures to reduce the price of gas on the Serbian market: The National Assembly asks the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Mining and Energy to make a decision at the first next session providing for the reduction of the gas price at least for the amount paid to the gas importer, the value added tax on this amount, and the amount intended to be serviced so-called. an old debt to gas suppliers. The National Assembly tasks the Government of the Republic of Serbia with forming a programme of subsidy measures for natural gas users and household categories and with such a subsidy system starting to apply no later than 1 November 2008. The National Assembly obliges the government to exercise control over the business of "Srbigas" and "Yugorosgas" companies and determine whether the newly established gas price is made up in accordance with the law, decisions by the Agency for Energy and Real State in the gas market. The National Assembly obliges the Government to make a decision within 30 days to determine the facts of the disputed transfer of 25% of the shares of Jugorosgas to foreign companies during 2005 and 2006 and to start, accordingly, the process of regaining an equal percentage of ownership in the company Jugorosgas. (President: Mrs Popovic, please bring the end. One second, two more seconds. The National Assembly obliges the government of the Republic of Serbia to make a decision at the first next session and to initiate the necessary process of abolishing mediation in gas imports to users in Serbia. We will deliver the proposal of this conclusion to each of the parliamentary clubs of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4935	Mrs. Verica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, it is legitimately the right of every MP, even the obligation, to participate in Parliament's work, to report that he is speaking according to the Rules of Procedure, to open certain topics, but it is very interesting that what we had at the beginning of today's session is that in the manner in which Mrs Susana Grubjesic reacted someone who is a member of the ruling coalition, it is without intent to offend anyone, indeed seems schizophrenic. Who is this Sasha Ilic? For me, he is a Saša Ilic, and for Suzanne Grubjesic, I suppose, someone who has agreed on his main committee that he can perform a certain function and probably, based on this function, that he is doing what Mrs Grubjesic has today informed us that he has done. But it wasn't the basis for which I answered. I answered on the basis of article 201. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We Members of the People, above all we Serbian radicals, very often want to get a statement on some topical subject, some current event, and, of course, we use our business right to get information about it. We are getting some answers these days, in response to parliamentary questions. Of course, it does not comply with Articles 225 and 226, but it is not a problem. The problem is that what we get in response is, in fact, mocking the MPs of the National Assembly and the National Assembly. There is no answer to the parliamentary question, which was specifically stated: who and how is concerned about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia at the International War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague, especially Vojislav Seselj, in terms of protecting their human rights, firstly, if we have the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, then the only body is well-informed and authorized to answer that question, and not Mrs Snezana Malovic, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, and that, apparently, woman is completely uninformed, uninformed, but after three minutes, in the next announcement, I will explain what is, in fact, the essence of the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4937	Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I request information on members 225 and 226 of the Republic Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the exercise of public office. Bajcetina is a small local community, Vgledicko village in Gružansko region, Knićan municipality. The entire Knican municipality has 36 villages and Becetina is one of the smallest local communities. There are only 30 and some people there who vote. The village is dying because mostly old and powerless people, who are hard to live, barely survive the end, so last year the oldest resident of that village, not to mention the name of that grandmother, died by dropping her soul next to the stove, the old brownie, in her spending house in Bajcetina. Under the heading "Tomina Holiday", the daily "Kurir" published photos of the contours, not the cottages, but a magnificent villa, in February or March this year. Mr. Minister, this will be dealt with by the competent state authorities, I am absolutely certain of that, given that this unfortunate person, whom you still hold as an MP, someone who receives a salary of 80,000 dinars and an MP's fee of 30,000 dinars, and this house, Mr. Dacic, I apologize to you, because I couldn't because of the resolution to increase it, you can see, after the citizens have delivered it to me on the CD, there is actually one villa taken from several perspectives. This villa, according to experts, with four escort facilities and some swimming pool, a pond in construction, a watchtower... Because you know, Mr. Dacic, when you have a villa, and when you kidnap and steal from the party, in turn, you have to observe what's going on. I believe you didn't give the police there, but the police will come handcuffing them. The villa, made of the former Radical's parliamentary salary and the party's deputy president, is worth at least 600,000 euros from May to today, with all these accompanying facilities, according to experts. It's a small thing to steal, to cheat, to sell Vojislav Seselj, to stab the party's president in the back, to betray what someone's sworn in, to spill empty and hollow stories, as they will hear today -- you know, you should have nice hairstyles, to get dressed well, and I, afterwards, go to Bajcetina, stone by stone and here's a palace. (President: Time. I'm finishing up, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Please, where we live in Serbia and did these people, who brought this to me from the Greek region and left these photos, invite journalists to do research work and to "Kurr" go after that time and see what was wrong there, do we live in a country where citizens should in such a way observe this thieving and this kidnapping? Please forward my question to the Republic Committee to resolve conflicts of interest in the exercise of public office: where did Tomislav Nikolic, former MP and former radical, who was never really the money for a house like this again, with all the following facilities, worth at least 600,000 euros? His wife's been unemployed for 15 years. He's not a businessman like Nenad Popovic, so he can make, and I don't think you, Mr Popovic, are throwing yourself away and making a 600,000-euro villa. Thank you for your attention, and I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4939	MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4940	Dear fellow MPs, it is obvious that there are many accumulated problems in Serbia and that parliamentarians do not know what topic to pay more attention to, but I think it is very important at this point to remind ourselves that this parliament has not put the KIM resolution on the agenda. The SRS is concerned about that fact because it has never happened before, it's been thinking and exploring why it is. The answer to our question was given to us by Wolfgang Ischinger himself, a European mediator in the KIM status negotiations, who announced that the intermediate troika would present a new proposal to Belgrade and Pristina, so-called. neutral status. The neutral status agreement will be an offer of two sides to create relations, regardless of what a decision on Kosovo's status could be today-to-morrow. There are no relations between Serbia and Kosovo today, as Kosovo is under UN administration, he says, while Serbia considers it part of its territory. There is no attempt at co-operation among them. That is what Ischinger said in a conversation with reporters in Washington and stated that the aim of the proposal to "normalise" relations between Pristina and Belgrade, expressing confidence that the new proposal could lead to an agreement that, please, would draw attention to these words, normalised relations between Kosovo and Serbia, but would not contain a single word on status. Apparently not, because, he says, details of the offer have not been elaborated yet, adding that it will be an agreement on co-operation and consultations on a number of aspects, such as economy, trade and crime prevention. I am asking in accordance with Rule 226 of our Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary club, with whom he is discussing this proposal, if not with Boris Tadic and we are asking a direct question to Boris Tadic, why, outside the framework of all the current resolutions we have adopted in this way, discuss the issue of Kosovo. Because don't forget that a while ago he was talking about the possibility of partitioning Kosovo, and then in one unsuspecting way, I think he tried to get out of his hasty public appearance, because it was obvious to everyone that something was happening behind our backs. So, Mr. Boris Tadic behind the back of the National Assembly is negotiating KIM status and establishing a relationship with KIM, and just to remind you that... that it is interesting that the government has this kind of noise in parliament when we talk about such an important state issue, but well, that shows the maturity of people who have entered parliament. I would just like to remind you of what the Russian representative in this three is saying, Alexander Bocan Harchenko, he clearly states that this case is not about a proposal for an intermediate troika. The United States announced on Tuesday in Brussels...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4941	You've been speaking for the fifth minute, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I'm going to have to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4942	So it's obvious the State Department has its own policy out of this middle three, and that...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4943	The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4944	I'm reporting from Articles 225 and 226. I feel the need for the present police and public minister to work, I say, in one sentence, to convince what the SRS parliamentary group insisted on when it comes to the Minister of Industry and Energy, Mr Skundric, on the famous Committee on Industry and Energy. In fact, we were only interested, given that the Ministry approved the price of gas collection by 60%, what the government would do specifically to allow citizens, who are in an ever worse material situation, to send that price of gas that is absolutely unacceptable. In doing so, we are in front of Mr. Skundric, who is left-handed by political definition, we assume that, by doing so and socially responsible, have come out with concrete information concerning our citizens who are now trying to follow this meeting of the Serbian Parliament and to understand what we are all present here in the hall to do at least tomorrow's better for them. That is why life topics have finally returned to where they belong, it is the parliament of Serbia, and Boris Tadic is persistently trying to remove all important life and national topics from this parliament. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think you are now violating the Rules of Procedure because you are not introducing order into the assembly hall. It really doesn't occur to me to get used to the MPs present, so I would ask you, as a member of the Rules of Procedure, to introduce order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4945	Mr. Todorovic, please, here's Mrs. Ragus warning me not to take care of the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4946	I thought you'd tell Mr. Batic and Mr. Minister present first, but, well, never mind, I hope peace has prevailed. Even worse, you're a minister, you should respect the presentation of MPs. Our function in the first place is to be the internal control of the government and to control the work of this government well. What's the point? I don't think that the public will be deceived, so political mentors Boris Tadic, I will use that argument for all further reporting, have managed to fragment the political scene in Serbia, partially break down the opposition and create a long-term life for the government, which apparently does not have a better standard on its agenda for Serbian residents. So, disintegration, poverty is a process that is obviously a priority for political mentors, in the first place of the United States, the government of Boris Tadic, bringing all of Serbia into a slave position. This is just the beginning of today's report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4947	The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to remind you that everything around the gas has begun. By the end of 2003, there were no intermediaries in the purchase, purchase, or imports of gas. Then Gazprom, or Gazprom Geokom, offered the NIS one correct project, which is that Gazprom invests about 300m dollars in the Banatski dvor, then write off a $240m debt to Serbia for gas, write off the debt Serbia had to Slovakia of $60m, make a mixed company, provide Serbia with gas at $125m for 1000 cubic metres of gas, and that the concession practically lasts eight years, after which all remains NIS. This is a letter sent by the director or President, Gazprom Geoko, to the service on the occasion of the then V.D. Director of NIS, Mr. Pavel Vukkovic. This is Mr. Titorenko, director of the Gazprom Geoko service. There is an election, a government crash, those marathon negotiations on forming a new government and it is already known who will take a position, and negotiations are being held in the premises of a party on the implementation of this project. These negotiations include, among other things, Gazprom and one of our men, Sasa Vukic of Prague, Mr Titorenko and others, and they participate, on the other hand, one future minister, one future governor and another. It's all accepted as one big project for the future. The government is being formed, negotiations continue on this same topic, at the beginning of the government's establishment in 2004, and then the already-elected minister refuses to accept the arrangement. Why? Because he's been warned, I'm warning you now, Mr. Minister, since I'm sure there will be arrests by some of the mediators in this gas delivery, but they're just mascots of these big tycoons, whose names are also involved in the National Savings Bank, and at the Euroaxis Bank, so don't catch small fish. The story of intermediaries has a much wider spectrum and much bigger players are in this game. Therefore, some of the people in this government and the former government are directly involved in the gas trade. These are just consequences. What I've been trying to explain, these are the causes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4949	The People's Messenger Momir Markovic, then the People's Messenger Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4950	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when it was declared that the price of gas would rise by 80%, absolute nebulosis, in the fall, at a time when households' budgets were severely burdened and when one of the parties showed up with a fierce criticism of that price, I knew there was some sort of blackmail and that contract would bring it on its own very quickly. The point is, there's something else. Whatever is done, the citizens of Serbia are damaged, and severely damaged. At the time when I worked at Energogas, or today's "Srbigas", at the time, the price was weighted, but only for industry, and the price of domestic gas, which is far lower than the price of imported gas, went to households. At the time we were developing this so-called. extensive consumption and entire settlements, both in Belgrade and Kragujevac, both in Kruševec and in many other cities received natural gas connections. Before that, Vojvodina had developed and developed this wide-ranging consumption, and now mainly households in Vojvodina and in the good part of Serbia are heating up on gas. What the Ministry is now offering is such a scam, amazing. Now we're going to pay you that price that you normally have to pay, that 60% at the price of gas, instead of how you normally pay two, three months, how much this increase in consumption is, now we're going to break it to you for 24 months, so you're going to get very fast into the situation -- more expensive tariffs, cheaper tariffs, so you're going to get into a situation where you can't calculate how much you spent, as 30, 40% of people can't figure out how much electricity you actually spend. If it goes beyond 100 cubic metres, then it'll be a different price, and then you'll be introducing, blue, yellow, green and other tariffs into gas collection. The cleanest situation is in gas consumption, on a measuring-regulatory set, you read how much you spent that month, you pay that much, and you finish the job. I remember that at that time, we put two or three summer invoices together in one because it didn't pay off for ten, eight, six cc's, as much as it would normally be used to heat hot water for swimming and preparing food, to send a invoice a month. That's why those who usually spend in winter months are 400, 300, 500 cc's... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'll pick up again, pay at a time when they spend, and not now like this for 12 months, they won't even know how much we spent, or how much we paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4951	National MP Dragan Zivkov, then MP Ivan Andric, and Jugovic. I'm sorry, Nenad Popovic has really been before. Excuse me. First, Nenad Popovic, because we gave Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4952	Madam President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say briefly that yesterday we have already proposed a reduction in the price of gas, that, by consensus in the Assembly, we all make that decision together, so that we support it and we want it to be realized. But just to speak to Article 226, I am looking for information, and also to answer about Mrs. Susana Grubjesic's performance, respected, respected, and Mr. Sasa Ilic. I talked to him and just to let you know that no contract has been signed, there's a big difference. The contract was signed last year, signed by Mr Milankovic, Mr Milankovic of G17, just to inform you, and this contract details this price today. Number two, only the contract annex was signed, where it only extends. And why is the contract annex signed, just to inform you, all European countries sign gas supply annexes in October and so 30, 50 years back -- always in October. The Russians won't be waiting for us in November or Germany or England. All European countries signed this annex in October. Furthermore, this annex does not have any function and does not take effect until it has been verified by the Management Board. It's, let me add, according to the statute of "Serbiagas" and by procedure. No procedure has been broken, that's how it's always done. Who's in business knows. The Director signed because there are certain terms, and the Management Board, when the meeting is verified or does not verify that decision. Who deals with the economy, it is common practice and in accordance with the statutes. This was informed, just to inform you, Minister Petar Skundric, and also the chairman of the Srbiagas Management Board, Mr Predrag Grgic, otherwise a member of the DS, so that everything was done by procedure. It was not signed, Mrs Grubjesic, respected, in Moscow, was signed in Belgrade. Mr. Sasa Ilic, just to inform you, by order of the DSS, resigned in July, even this summer. Not being relieved of duty is not our problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4953	Messenger of the People Dragan Zivkov and then the Messenger of the people Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the situation in the country is alarming about the price of gas, I would just like to remind you of earlier developments that were happening in our country in Vojvodina, as regards the gasification of certain inhabited areas. A certain number of settlements are self-initiative, i.e. from his means to draw gas into his places, local communities and municipalities. Since it came two or three years ago an initiative by NIS-Gas from Vojvodina to take over complete networks from local communities, great pressure was put on local communities then to hand over networks to distribution, certain local distributors and NIS-Gas from Novi Sad. Here one of the MPs mentioned Mr. Bosnjakovic, he was then director of NIS-Gas in Novi Sad. He personally came to local communities, i.e. on the councils of local communities, those who wanted to charge their network, which cost them 500,000, 800,000 and million euros, depending on their connections to the local community. They came to convince people from the council, a certain political structure, to convince certain local communities to hand over the free network for distribution, i.e. to the distribution of gas, that certain local distributors take a percentage of spent gas. That, even before this gathering happened, was one attack on a number of people in Vojvodina who invested their resources in networks to be later taken over by certain distributors for the contract itself. Later, in some event where natural gas was not introduced into some settlements, they came to convince people and citizens of these places that it would be the cheapest heating on gas, that it would be cheaper than solid fuel and oil, electricity, etc. I am personally witnessing that my local community has invested over 500,000 euros. It was later confirmed, as each network in certain local communities had to assess the value of the network. What made them estimate the value of the network if it was a free distribution, as far as investment and everything else is concerned, especially today when they collected 60%, after their conviction that it would be the cheapest gas, as far as energy is concerned? Mr. Bosnjakovic then took over... (President: Time. Finish that sentence, finish your thought. ) Convincing certain structures, i.e. The advice of local communities, that it is necessary and that it is the citizens' interest to surrender the network and certain political structures, i.e. The people who were then in the DS in the AP Vojvodina policy charged the fat of NIS-Gas for their local communities, where they came from, the exact value of the estimated network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4955	National MP Ivan Andric, then Mrs Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4956	I'm reporting under Article 104 and Article 77. Madam President, you have offended the dignity of the National Assembly by laughing as MPs speak of this most important topic at this moment, you are throwing and interrupting, you are giving a word over the line, a list of who is completely unclear and everything you are doing is working to hide the truth from the citizens of Serbia. Let me inform you that with the chairman of the board, Mr. Buh, we have agreed that today the opposition is ready to hold a session of the Industry Committee. We expect you to ensure the minister's presence. I'll remind you that we're waiting 40 days for an answer. I'm telling you one more time that's not acceptable. The Management Board, which is due to discuss this decision, is being held tomorrow. Meanwhile, the man, whose name we all know now, and until now we didn't know him, this Sasa Ilic, or whatever it is called, said it was a regular procedure, and it is a regular procedure during the two governments of Vojislav Kostunica, that there is a mediator who takes 40m euros, but we are surprised that it is a regular procedure for this government as well. Please use Article 77, in agreement with Mr. Buh, to ensure the presence of the minister, we are at your disposal. What's important is that this committee session is held before tomorrow's session of the Srbiagas Management Board. We can't wait and find an excuse in technical and formal excuses. We've sent a minister, we'll wait, be patient. We won't be patient. Last time we waited 40 days for the answer, as a result, it cost 60% of gas. By the time the answer came, it didn't matter what the question was anymore. Now we ask or ask you, the easiest way to make it possible for Parliament to work is by holding a session of the Committee on Industry and thus, through an institution that exists in the National Assembly, to discuss this. As long as you ignore us, there are as many of us as there are, I see that all MPs of the opposition are unique in finding the answer, and is Ilic, is Milankovic, is G 17, is DSS, is DSS, who is politically responsible, why is the middleman at all, who are you all? It's obviously about an organization that has thousands of faces. This congregation must find an answer to that, since the government is obviously not capable. Just one more warning, I'll use the full three minutes, don't let it happen, like last week when Minister Skundric came in, so the ruling majority doesn't provide a quorum for the committee's work. We will see this as an obstruction of the work of the board and as a support in this robbery of Serbia currently under way. Please, you are the representative of the ruling majority before us. At the last board meeting, the Minister of Energy came... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... but no members of the ruling coalition appeared. That made it impossible for the board to hold a session. (President: Will you bring the end? I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4957	I'm asking the board president to let me know about the appointment date. The word is Mrs. Susana Grubjesic, so you do. Milorad Buhha, from the scene: 6:00 p.m. 18 o'clock? All right, thanks. I'll let the minister know, if he's in a position, if he's physically in Belgrade, I assume he'll come. The secretary made a list in order of reporting, which is being checked by Ms. Jovanovic, and I'm just reading.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4958	I'm sorry, I'm using my right to a replica after Mr Popovic spoke to me. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4959	You have no word, Mrs Grubeshic. You don't have a word if it's a replica. You have to wait for everything in the Rules of Procedure, then. The Rules of Procedure are like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4960	Reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure - the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr Popovic, with full right, defends his party colleague Saša Ilic. I can't deny that right, but I'll just remind him that the responsibility for the oil-gas sector is the most affected by the DSS, but not by these honest MPs sitting here earning their salary, but by a team that's long gone and no one can change. You, Mr Popovic, had absolute domination in the Ministry of Energy, and Minister of Naumov, and Mr Srđan Bošnjaković, who is there today and at the Energy Agency there is Ljuba Macic, and in NIS Željko Popović and Srdjan Bosnjakovic, so you controlled the board of directors of "Srbigas", and then my former party friend Milos Tomic, was a member of G 17 Plus, when we caught him in various illicit actions, behold, miraculously moved on to the DSS, continued his career, and then former chairman of the Management Board of "Serbia" Svetozar Krstic, as a former member of the SPS, found refuge in the DSS. I really understand why you're defending the current V.D. The director, he is a man of resignation, but certainly it is the responsibility of the ruling coalition that has not yet established that resignation and has not changed neither the director of Srbiagas nor the members of the Srbiagas Management Board, because probably, if she did, we wouldn't be discussing this today. As for Mr Milankovic, he signed the contract under the law, with the consent of the Management Board. First he asked for the board's consent, so he signed the contract. Your Mr. Ilic signed an annex worth 700m euros without the consent of the Management Board. You are, more or less, now obsessed with Mr Milankovic, a little bit or less with the "Electro Networks of Serbia" appearing in a newspaper that is bought on the street and is not a newspaper, but I think it has something to do with your business, and we can talk about it another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4961	Mr. Buha. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's time for the gas collection to be discussed in parliament, and I think the only parliament at this point can make the right decision and the right solution. Why? Because the whole system of government doesn't walk the way it's supposed to walk. This best shows a 60% increase in prices. On the Committee on Industry, we received information on how there was an increase. And what's the price structure? What are the actual costs, what are direct, what are indirect costs, what are profits in the total price, what are material and immaterial costs etc.? We didn't get that on the Industry Committee. In accordance with Rule 78 of the 5th Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, we asked the Minister for additional information, leaving a period of seven days. Meanwhile, as MPs, we have received a lot of information about the failures in the organisation, the natural gas distribution system, both at the republican level and at the local level. Then we found, at the republican level, enormously high earnings from the director, deputy director, management staff, board of directors, supervisory board, etc. In local self-government, it's even worse. Instead of applying the provisions of the Law on Community Works, the Law on Public Enterprises, we have a variety, we have the will of local leaders who allowed a lot of things to happen in local self-government. And what's that? We now have local self-government distributors who are socially owned. By the end of the year, we have to finish selling, if we're going to respect the law, all social enterprises. The distributors are still social property. Furthermore, distributors are state-owned. The stockholder, like the third kind, the stock companies, the colorful, we can't do that. That's no way to solve a question in this area. Furthermore, the state system has its own instruments to control this situation, but it does not control it now, there are probably inspection services that should have acted preventively and restrictively in case there are failures in the application of the law. Obviously there are, but who cares? Why isn't the state system operational in this case? Who's to blame? It is the government's fault, primarily, that the ministry, the Energy Agency, has also missed everything that goes by public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4963	National MP Dragan Stevanović, then Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, 15 minutes ago. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I wanted to advertise the injury by thinking that you have injured the Rules of Procedure and I believe that you have violated the Parliament's dignity with a hasty reaction. In fact, you said, it's a good thing the public can see everything they're saying and what they're saying. I assume you thought very tendingly that the people should see the opposition as it is. I could understand such a finding that it would happen to an MP, but it must not happen to you objectively, you cannot afford such a luxury. Especially because of the fact that here, for ten days now, someone has been trying to open one question in the congregation, and you are permanently not in a situation and able to answer some questions that are becoming very serious. And I could understand, after all, that today the representatives of the assembly majority, who elected the government, who are in charge of the people that are being talked about here today, have not come out and started asking the same questions, and have raised the subject that we are talking about at a level that is becoming very serious. I don't think you can seem to answer the questions that are being asked in front of you. I think you are aware of the fact that you are the President of Parliament and I think that you should be aware of the fact that parliamentarians are not obliged to coordinate their obligations with ministers, but that ministers are harmonising their obligations and plans to make them in line with the needs imposed by the Assembly. I don't think you'll get far like this. I think you should, and I said that from this pay phone, in an adequate way, face the problem that MPs have been putting before you for ten days, and that's the problem with the price of gas and everything that defines and dictates such a price. So that I don't exceed my time, I'll end up with another people's saying -- it's better to come back as often as possible, than to go through with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4965	Thank you. Of course, it wasn't my intention to transfer only to one side of the Assembly, TV is for a complete hall, and I didn't direct it at all. Mr. Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4966	Dear Presidents, the working presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers and representatives of the government, the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia urged all MPs and MPs to return to the agenda, to return to what we adopted at the beginning of this session. Otherwise, I appeal to Article 103(1). Rules of Procedure. We'd have to step out of this booth more dignifiedly, we'd have to cut down the rhetoric of party and personal promotions, we'd have to use the time of prime television broadcasts to realize the agenda we adopted. Our parliamentary group thinks it would be good to get into the adoption of a new Rules of Procedure on the work of this Parliament as soon as possible. We'd have to do it as soon as possible. We believe that the kind of abuse of this pay phone and parliament has been carried out since the beginning of this call, and most of all in the last few days. We invite and appeal once again to return to what we were chosen for, what we agreed to discuss at this session 14 points of the agenda. Let me just say about what some MPs here call and talk about pensions. We propose and ask all MPs to wait for Mitrovica and see if what we have agreed and promised is realised and to join us in the coming period and to make all that and what others have promised and what we have promised for the pensioners, to achieve it by the end of the year. And finally, we propose and support the proposal from the president of the assembly, that the way the president suggested it should solve this problem and cause confusion in the assembly. I ask you once again for respect for Parliament's dignity and order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4967	Thank you. Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, MP and then Elena Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Articles 225 and 226. I would like to inform the public that representatives of the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija held a press conference at the Media Centre in Belgrade. The press conference outlined certain conclusions adopted at earlier sessions of the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija. Namely, we ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all, to respect the resolutions adopted in this assembly, i.e. which were adopted earlier in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we know that it is one of the last of these resolutions and that there is no place for the Eulex mission in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, and we have witnessed that this mission is being installed these days in those parts where there is no Serb people, where there is no Serbian living. We ask the government to make sure it works to strengthen Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. Then, we ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to recognise the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities. If he does not wish to recognise the same institution, then we propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia to call a local province election in which the so-called Kosovo and Metohija assembly would be elected. We ask that representatives of the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities receive the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have spoken to them on many occasions, but so far we have not received an answer. In the meantime, we have also decided to organise a petition called Stop Eulex, and this petition will be organised in the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as in those places where there are displaced Serbs, by delivering the text to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic, then the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, as well as one copy of that petition, we will deliver the embassies of the Russian Federation. So this way I would like to appeal to all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija to respond and to the more massive number of access to the signing of this petition, as well as to all displaced Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, because we will organise points for collecting signatures throughout Serbia where Serbs from the space of Kosovo and Metohija are displaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4969	Thank you. National MP Elena Christmas-Talian.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I use the presence of Minister Dacic. The SRS is demanding urgent police and prosecutor's response to the violent and violent behaviour of DS officials. I assume you all remember a session of the Belgrade City Assembly, held on Friday (October 17th), in which Mr. Gilas, in the most harsh and vulgar manner, insulted the vice-president of the City Committee, Mr. Ognjanovic. Mr. Gilas figured out what he did. He made an apology. However, it seems that an apology cannot just erase the consequences of what followed. In fact, some DS officials thought it was a desirable model of behavior, so that escalation of violent behavior continued by DS committee members Janko Radakovic. I assume that you could all see in the printed media a photograph of Mr. Radakovic at which the Belgrade statute was brought to bed. This fascinating nap was otherwise exaggerated by the SRS committee, Milan Zgonjanin, mobile phone, and posted it on the Internet, with a funny comment - wake up Janko Radakovic, a committee of the Democratic Party in the Belgrade City Assembly. After this, however, Mr. Radakovic referred truly scandalous threats to our councilman Zgonjan. He began by sending a message through one of his mutual friends and e-mails, firstly, that unless he ceases to reveal this right face to the public that he will pass through as chairman of the City Committee, Nemanja Sarovic, and that he will come to the next session in bruises. It wasn't the end. I'll quote his message sent through an e-mail that reads like this -- tell your friend, so because it's sent through a mutual friend, the radical Zgonian from Schiller not to play with a lot of people because he's going to be trunked, and then he finds me calling, and he doesn't know who I am and how crazy I am, explain it to him, or the way of Avali. So, gentlemen of the Parliament, this is an open threat to death. The SRS finds that in this act DS took responsibility for this event, as well as for these previous attacks against SRS activists and officials and mentioned Nemanja Sarovic. I'm just wondering if this is a model of the behaviour of this so-called European front, joined by Mr Nikolic, whom the British ambassador praises for pro-European evolution? Does that evolution look like this? Where does this go next, and how will it end?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4971	Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4972	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 104, the dignity of the Assembly. He would also then join the request that MP Ivan Andric presented before you to convene the Committee. We heard from Mr. Buha that he's scheduled for 18 hours. We expect information that Minister Skundric will come, but I would like to suggest that if you are able, call the prime minister, as this is a subject for which he is also directly responsible. I find it a little grotesque that the ruling coalition is sending for a pay phone for members of the least parliamentary group within the ruling coalition to call for us to adhere to the agenda. I repeat, your only interest is to keep us quiet, not to mention things and not to mention abuses. I would very much like for you, sir, to say to yourself that you are protecting the interests of the pensioners, to try and explain to these pensioners that 10% of the increases foreseen by the rebalancing of the pensioners' budget will mean nothing after this 60 percent of the gas collection. This defends the interests of those they voted for, thus defending the interests of the citizens, to rise up against one government decision that results from a series of failures by previous governments and the current one. Until yesterday, we believed that today's government wasn't involved in this, but after what's happening and what we hear, we are convinced that there is also great responsibility for this gathering here. We just heard there's a contract in October with whoever distributes gas. I have to tell you, it fits most of the middleman's firm. The gas is now the most expensive, over $500m, and therefore 700m euros is worth this job and is therefore a commission of 35m euros. There's no political score here, there's only a conflict here today's coalition partners. I think it's quite funny for everyone here to be accused of being representatives of the DSS and representatives of the G17, who were sitting in the same government until yesterday. We just found out that both of them rotated the directors at Srbigas. The time was from the G17, the hour was from the Democratic Party of Serbia, the chairman of the DS Management Board. I'm looking again, I think it's crucial, let's see how this company operates. Let's see who gave Mr. Milankovic government approval. That's the government where you and the DSS sat down, and you from G17. Who gave Milankovic permission to make a deal with Jugorosgas to be a mediator? That's the key question. Who takes money from it and all the citizens suffer?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4973	National MP Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, in favour of what my colleague Elena Christmas-Talian said earlier, and what my left-hand side has quite indifferently accepted, some have not even disturbed the concentration of crossing words, etc., I will give an example of how this modern Euro-integration regime here in Serbia, which slaps us daily and is being overrun by the realisation of these democratic principles and principles, treats us. So, your fellow SRS MP, to me today, in broad daylight, at the door of the family apartment in the apartment building, is a drawing of a cowardly Nazi cross. Whether it's because I stayed in the SRS or because I've spent the last few days with only a few criminal affairs and events in the youth municipality, it's not for me to judge. As far as I'm concerned, the message was quite clear, as I understand, that as a real, true Serbian radical, I will continue with the path I've been going, which is in this struggle to live in a more normal, fairer and more honest society. The case has been reported to the police. I expect the authorities to react to this, but I think it's really unacceptable that today in the 21st century, regardless of all the political differences that exist between us, something like this could happen. I hope that this brave and yet unknown perpetrator will be caught and brought to justice, not for myself, I repeat again, I am not afraid for myself, I think it is in the interest of some significantly better Serbia in which we all strive to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4975	National Messenger Marina Ragush, and then Ambassador Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4976	I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 225th and 226, to pick up where I left off last time, because my three minutes of these rules of procedure have expired. Mr. Colakovic, I must tell you that you were directly deceived by Mladjan Dinkic. There won't be an increase in pensions. Here's how. Not to turn out to invent an SRS parliamentary group, in the latest issue of the "Economist" list, he said. So, the 2009 budget, that public should know, that our pensioners should know, there is nothing since the increase, based on Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's statement. We ask Mr. Mladjan Dinkic to appear before the MPs soon and to explain this decision. This systematic public deception directly concerns the social security of citizens. In this regard, I use the presence of the first deputy prime minister of the Serbian government: Mr Dacic, the aim of the SRS is to create a better social atmosphere, which should guarantee the social security of all citizens, regardless of any particularity they possess. It seems that someone really has a criminal imagination when it comes to the participation of your party in the government. If they were to sort out pictures of what the first 100 days of government's work look like, it seems that the resistors that you're covering as an SPS actually fall on certain exams. We really have a reasonable suspicion that Boris Tadic is directly behind it. That's why he created a widespread political scene of Serbia, so that he could commit criminal imagination to the end. The criminal imagination, along with its mentors, refers to Serbia's disintegration, the secretion of Vojvodina, the declaration of Kosovo's independence by Serbia, and, of course, Serbia's slavery status. So, first it started kidnapping, then delivering Dr. Radovan Karadzic. Then there was a terrible increase in energy prices, such as the price of gas by 60%, and thus the price of district heating used by these energies. Very quickly, 20-60% of the tuition for the academic citizens of Serbia was collected. Since the SRS is a state-of-the-art and responsible political party, I apologize for this excess, just to finish the thought, thank you for understanding, we couldn't remain completely indelicate to the increasingly difficult situation for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4977	You're done thinking. Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 225 and 226. First question for the Minister of Energy. Since I've asked a few questions about the realisation of the gas deal, so what's it going to be? I ask that for the simple reason that in an interview for the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which is a prestigious bulletin and is called "Step", and indeed every honour on this bulletin, Russian Chamber of Commerce President Jurij Burgin said he does not believe, or that he is not convinced that the project "South Stream" will ever be realised. Let's see what this is about. This was said by the president of the Russian Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, at a business forum of Slovenian countries. A second question for the economy and regional development minister, since I had just, as Mr Krasic said, remained unspeakable. The question is whether a meeting in the G17 Plus rooms was held between the elections in December 2003 and the formation of the government in March 2004, and about that contract I mentioned, attended by Mr Dinkic, Mr Jelasic, one of our fellow MPs, and on the Russian side, in front of the Gazprom Geoco service, Mr Gary Titonko, Mr Cefisov and this businessman Sasa Vukic. Did several months later, at the government level, the same delegation of the Gazprom Geoca Service have a meeting with Mr Dinkic, Naum and Bubal? To explain why the project and the proposal, which was very good and very rational for Serbia, was not accepted. We wouldn't be talking about this inflating gas prices today. It would not be bad to see the ownership structure of the main mediator, who concluded the contract at 700m euros, so let's see who owns the company that needs to take such an enormous commission and whether there are any tycoons here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4979	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic, then Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4980	Ladies and gentlemen, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. I want to inform the Serbian public that a fake right is being established at this point. A political party is being established that will have all the attributes of the SRS. No one will believe that people from that party, who left Vojislav Seselj alone for personal interest, changed their political thinking and their 18-year struggle. The European Union is a European right-wing project. In many EU countries, there are right-wing parties, and as a fake right in Serbia, one political party, whose people have done everything in the last 18 years, wants to be a member of the EU. I ask Serbia not to forget, Tomislav Nikolic said he was not sorry for Slavko Curuvija, Tomislav Nikolic told the prime minister himself that Tito had problems with his leg before he died. Tomislav Nikolic promised in the presidential campaign if he wins for Serbia's president, that he would look at court files and determine whether the Legion is a hero or a criminal. That is why we call on all people, citizens, associations, political parties to accept the SPI platform, to accept the political platform of the European right, which clearly defines Serbia's European path, on the principles of equal development and on the principles of Serbia's decentralisation. I would remind you, today's date will not be remembered for today's establishment of the Serbian Progressive Party, but will remain remembered under one law that has laundered the paved foundations of democracy in Serbia. Today, ten years ago, the infamous Public Information Act was passed. The creator of the law was then the Minister of Information Aleksandar Vukic. Basic provisions of the Civil Liberties and Rights Pact have also been marred in unconstitutional infringement processes, and the media in Serbia have been punished by more than a million euros for publishing an article against ruling parties. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4981	Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4982	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, Article 226. Members of Parliament who are involved in monitoring price collection in Telekom today feel neglected, since here from 15 hours to now are only talking about gas collection, and I would like to move a little bit of interest to the Assembly and to this other topic. According to the 2007 Telecom data, 30 billion dinars have earned fixed telephony and 50 billion mobile telephony. I suppose this year 2008 will be more successful. I'm asking the question, what is the price for an increase of 100%? Who decided to peel the skin off the back of Serbian citizens in Serbia? It's really amazing. If someone makes this kind of profit, is it possible that they have to go so far that some people winter not only won't have for heating, they won't have, especially pensioners, maybe the possibility that by phone, I mean fixed, because few of them use cell phones, calling ambulances when they need it, especially in some remoter places or remote ends. I would like to thank Mr. Yugoslavia for informing the citizens of Tomislav Nikolic today. I was a little caught up with him today, since I didn't find him here in the benches, since he's been a very successful usurper for a month and a half. I assumed, given the morality of an honest man, since he was born in Kragujevac, today he may have gone to pay his respects and to take the crowns or attend the parastos, no matter how religious he felt, to go to the shooting range in Shumarica, to bow down there to the shooting students and other patriots. However, we can see that some in Belgrade today are making hepenings of their own, and this is the most about their morale. So thank you again for letting me know.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4983	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, with the intention of informing all Serbian citizens who are watching us, so that they have accurate and true information that is played by individual actors on Serbia's political scene. The UN tribunal is inaugurating an even greater shakedown of SRS President Vojislav Seselj. The citizen Nikolic and his followers not only underestimate others, but see their qualities in a very unusually lofty light. For their bad, immoral and evil intentions, they have a whole bunch of excuses, and the SRS is certain that the Serbian citizens have already seen and understood this for a long time. It is clear to Serbian citizens that the citizens mentioned have stolen the SRS 20 mandates and that they are seeking every possible way to liquidate Dr Seselj with the help of domestic tycoons, the Democratic Party and the Hague prosecutor's office. Professor Seselj, thanks to the citizen Nikolic, privileged communication with his legal team has been lifted. The D.A.'s office is moving on, and he wants to get a lawyer on him. And they help Dr. Seselj to be imposed at all costs, because they are sure that the president of the SRS will not accept it, and then, as a consequence, they expect to be physically liquidated. So once again in this distinguished home, the SRS is asking for her stolen mandates to be returned and to take all appropriate measures to make this happen sooner than the people who do not belong here are walking around in this respected home. If the SRS does not return soon to its mandates, then this parliament and the ruling coalition do not respect either Christian, moral, and legal principles of justice and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4985	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I attended the elementary school "October 21st" in Kragujevac, and as a student of that school, I had, along with other colleagues, an obligation on today, when I say commitment, it's truly tragic...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4987	Excuse me, which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4988	Members of 225 and 226, to ask a question at the end of Mr. Secretary, but I'm making a little introduction, don't mind me. ... That day, along with the other children and students, I participate as someone who sang in choir choir from first to eighth grade and primary school "21 October" at the "21 October" event in Šmarice, where the students and innocent citizens of Kragujevac were shot in 41. Mr. Dacic, I am shocked today by what I saw. A delegation from the SRS City Committee went before the monument "V/3" in the Woods and laid a wreath on behalf of our City Committee. But for the first time, what happened, Mr. Dacic, was that the city was almost a siegeal state, and especially the share from Kragujevac to Batocina, because the dictator Boris Tadic came to Kragujevac for a big school class. In 56, I wasn't even born yet, but there are those who remember, Joseph Broz came to Kragujevac and there were several dozen Kragujevac prisoners in Petrovac on that day. Mr. Jojic knows how it worked in that communist time by the police. All those who were suspicious and who were detained or detained because they were against Broz or suspected, had to apply themselves before Joseph Broz arrived and say they would be in jail for two days, or the police would go and put them on until they passed the visit to Marshall. If time had been like this today, and it's only different because apparently citizens are free, at least 50,000 people would be in prison in Kragujevac, because so many Kragujevcans, the least I say voters who can't look at Boris Tadic's eyes, and that's the clearly expressed will of the citizens. But since he came today, Mr. Dacic, with such a scroll and escort, I ask you, did you know as the police minister that every nearly 200 metres from Kragujevac to Batocina, that's 26 kilometers, stood one policeman, on one side and on the other? On the way out of Kragujevac, she knows Mrs. Djukić Dejanović, because she is normal even though the President of the Assembly is passing there every day, she goes by the car, there's a flyover on whom since 1990 it says "Schp-Seselj", and of course the Chetnik Duke of that time and the man who gets killed in The Hague Kazamat today, because it defends the interests of the Serbian people, and it's kind of a habit that every time I go out of town I look at that overpass because I always want to see that sign "Schp-Seselj", but today I see up cops, and on the overpass, and on one, and on the other exit, and on one side... (President: Natasha. )......................................................................................................... I'm done. There's still no flowers to throw, there's a marshal. Where's the state going, Mr. Dacic? I'm sorry, Mrs. Dejanovic, I'm excited about the fact that this traitor Nikolic chose today, and the Kragujevcan is, he is, that he is hating over what he did and what he tried... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4989	Milan Veselinović and Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 23 and Article 225. In fact, Article 23 reads, "In the National Assembly, MP groups are educated, as a rule, no later than seven days from the day of election of the National Assembly President," that is item 1. Item 2: 'Employment group shall consist of the MPs of one political party, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have at least five MPs. ''Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have witnessed that for more than a month a group of former SRS MPs usurped the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, usurped the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and even there beautiful pictures of their leaders, and here from this place, to explain and inform Serbian citizens that they know that this outlaw group was elected on the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj parliamentary list. No one here is defending anyone from establishing various associations and political organisations, as far as I know, around 475 in Serbia, so be it their 476, but we are asking the National Assembly, the competent, to give us back the mandates, to return the mandates of the SRS, because otherwise the Constitution of Serbia, is being violated by the Law of Elections, this Rules of Procedure is being broken. I also advertise the violation of Article 226, where it is said: "The MP has the right to request explanations and information from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which he is headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. ''I have to remind the citizens of Serbia today that almost all afternoon talk about various affairs, starting with gas collection and some signatures of abuse of certain directors, through an enormous collection of telephone services, then announcing other gatherings of other energy sources, then mentioning the statutes of Vojvodina, which is in direct conflict with the Constitution of Serbia, because there is a government of Vojvodina there, so I don't know what kind of relationship the government of Serbia and the government of Vojvodina will be in, according to that newly declared statute. The Eulexa mission is still being deployed at KIM, and unfortunately even individuals in this government support it and speak publicly about it.... (President: Time. I don't want to talk about protecting the state border...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4991	You'll bring the end, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4992	Thank you. I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4993	National MP Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basis for my notification is Rule 225 and 226. Five days ago, when I checked in with this pay phone about the gas collection, I said that you from the ruling coalition had taken this gas collection unrelentingly and I told you what was going to happen. After this gathering, there's no work of the Assembly, there's no government. As long as the price of gas doesn't go back to that price that was before the purchase doesn't have the Parliament's work, there's no government. If someone comes out here and tells us to get the price back from that 60%, which they collected at about 30, someone here thinks someone doesn't know anything and someone doesn't know gas. We of the SRS will suspect that, gentlemen, you are all involved in this gas mob. The price of gas must remain 21.27 dinars plus VAT, as it was before the collection, and we have this 8% VAT for gas alone and that's 24 dinars in total. Now here is not exactly the price of gas of 34 dinars, you have to add a 8% VAT to this, and the price of gas is for citizens, with a collection of 36.75 dinars. The main question here is, does the state of Serbia have any more benefits for gas imports? The state of Serbia has privileges and several other countries have the privilege of importing gas. Who set the price of gas? It's clear to all of us. The price of gas was determined by "Yugorosgas", "Srbiagas", and the main one is the Energy Agency. Who's the director of the Energy Agency? Give us an answer, because that agency makes a proposal to the Ministry of Energy. The Ministry of Energy gives it to the government, and the government only adopts it at its session. This is all about the Energy Agency. You have passed the Law establishing agencies, the agencies are serving you for the robbery of Serbian citizens. Here you'll be telling us how he bought the gas, so we know how to transport the gas. Now, you're going to explain to us that the columns are tanks at the border and that they're being transported that way. No, I don't. Gas is transported by pipelines, these pipes are steel pipes, bladder pipes. We've got gas lines of valves, measuring-regulatory stations. What's going on with this pick-up? That the gas network is completely out of order, which is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4995	Time, bring the end, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4996	I don't want to talk anymore, thank you, and I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4997	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4998	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a very serious topic here that we're talking about. It is said that one energy that is propagated by the position, by people who are likely to have a strong desire and accession to the EU, as well as normally that energy would have a certain impact on improving their economic capacity. He's very influential and he was very significant. I talked about this speaker Friday about the impact of gas on Serbia's economy. What my colleague said earlier is that Mitrovdan needs to be seen and how pensioners will survive, that is, some kind of pension-related subsidy from Mitrovdan will probably come. I have to tell you, before I left Capca, a pensioner brought me this record, wrote it with his own hand, I'll try to read it. But before I read it, you see, here are the stickers, as he hooked it up, when the NATO Pact and the NATO Alliance bombed Serbia and played these flyers in Serbia, where in fact this flyer is connected to then DOS and all that is unwritten in this programme, is it actually the realization of the DOS since 2000, since October 5th. I'll read this later. I'll read this: In Šapco more than 20,000 unemployed; pay for privates from 8,000 to 15,000; with large markets they've destroyed those small shops; a trade that was the pride of Šapca practically no longer exists; people dress on fleas that are brought from where they come from, secondhand goods; on so-called. People's kitchens are getting more and more people waiting in line for food; CAP accounts are growing for citizens; citizens are over-indebted with bank loans and local greeners... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up in White Lims, it's a company that belongs to Sartidua, which was also kidnapped... (President: Please finish your sentence.) )......................................................................................................... where the late Djindjic was involved, I finish, had about 500 workers... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u4999	You don't have a word anymore. Ms. Judita Popovic, then MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5000	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I appeal to Article 103(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, which says that during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speaker in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. Therefore, we are witnessing that every speaker who comes out must suffer a certain verbal aggression from those present in the congregation, since the uninterrupted marbles, stories, laughs, read newspapers, solve crosswords, talk, throw, etc. This, therefore, makes it much more difficult for the work of the congregation, so I would especially draw attention to the MPs if people were watching us through the media, so it would not be bad to pay attention. The LDP wants us to solve all problems through the institutions, as well as this problem that has arisen in terms of gas collection. I don't think anyone in this country, who's some kind of relevant factor, can ignore it and can't say that he hasn't heard that there's been many gas abuses, even with this gas collection. Therefore, both the police and the prosecution, both the judges and the government, finally and parliament, should do what they do. We have completed a search of the principles and details of the draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. We have the Law on conflict of interest, we have a Council on Combating Corruption, but we missed something in the meantime. How is it possible that V.D. The director of "Serbigas" is also vice-president of the Management Board of Jugorosgas. If that's not a conflict of interest, if it didn't give enough space for certain corruption, then I really don't know what corruption is, especially when we look at the percentage of the commission, and this last one, it's 5% at 700m euros, 35m euros. Indeed, the problems that are marked here in the congregation should begin to be solved, targeted. It would be good, once again, for the other institutions to do so, and above all, the police, the judiciary, the prosecution, and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5001	MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5002	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting for article 104. I would like to point out the following: The PUPS is no one's Trojan horse that someone is planting here to prevent the debate on the crucial problems we have ahead of us. We're not the ones who need to stop it. However, the impression is, and this is what our president of the parliamentary group has made clear, that we need to stick to some order in all of this, if we want to be effective. The second question is, there are these crucial problems that need to be put on the agenda in a certain way, according to the procedure that is planned, but we can't make one gemist out of it now, so when we're discussing one thing, we put someone else in there right now. There needs to be some order in it. The next thing I know, there's a lot of issues about pensioners, and there's no obligations, and how it's going to be, what he said, what he said. I must say, a 10% pension increase regulation has been passed and they will be paid off on November 10th as it has been determined. As for these problems of price and inflation, I must say that we too are fighting with all our hearts against it, but from what we have heard today we do not know the true state of what will become of these prices and of that inflation. Officials say one thing, we hear from MPs some other figures, some other data, so it confuses the citizens together. They keep asking us about what's going on. You see all this and we know it all. If we hadn't increased these 10% pensions, then what would have happened? If the prices go up high, as announced, next to the pensioners will all be affected. It's not just about gas, electricity, and phone impulses. Others deny that it will not be so, etc. There is a statement, someone mentioned, that Mr Dinkic said there was no increase. Is that what he said, as much as I read it, but please, no matter what, we'll soon have a law in front of the Parliament... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... about that, so now all those in favor of improvement... (President: Time. We don't support anything, and we don't support Dinkic, and what we're looking for we have to get, and if we don't get it, there are other stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5003	National MP Paja Momchilov and then Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, I advertise Article 24. Rules of Procedure: MPs' groups propose members of each committee to a proportion of the number of MPs they have in the National Assembly. You see, for a number of days here in this House, we have witnessed that a group of citizens whose status has not yet been defined until the end, which I hope today may in some way be tried to define, is a real mess in parliament. Look at how it looks like this. We have 30 committees, maybe citizens don't know that, and if you look at the composition of those committees, you'll see one strange thing. You have two types of members of the SRS, go to the site and see. It is impossible that there are two groups of MPs from the SRS, there are only one, authentic Serbian radicals. What you allow, that falsely, under our company SRS, is one group of citizens, that's the first thing you're not allowed to do and you tolerate it. Let's see how things are on committees, for example. The Education Committee has now debated the vital interests of our students and you've seen them here on the streets protesting and seeking their rights. In that committee you have three members of a group of citizens whose status I cannot define politically. Look here, if you followed up that the parliamentary groups have a proportional number of their members and a number on the committees, then you'll find a paradoxical situation, that this group has 20% of the board represented by a team so-called. Your members. And we, who are three times more powerful than that parliamentary group, have only one MP or 6%. What's the result of all this? You tolerate it, and then you wonder when we have these sessions and things like this. The result is that the Committee votes the amendment of my colleague, Mrs Jorge. If the Serbian radicals were truly present, that would not have happened. Furthermore, the KiM Committee is completely paralyzed. Again, one citizen is at the head of that committee and this gentleman has not called for a single session of the Committee since 16 July, and you have problems with Kosovo, EULEX and everything, not to mention the resolution you rejected and which you do not want to talk about. But here's the problem. I direct the authoritarian, Mr. Tadic, wants to create chaos in Serbia. The establishment of this new political party is collateral damage to this chaos. (President: Time. I'm done. Just let me eat the sentence. This gentleman today has allowed himself so much that no one has ever allowed himself in Serbia's history. He laid his first crown on the memorial tomb in the woods, not even Broz. It is known that the first lays the wreath of the First Kragujean High School and the students. He humiliated the whole set, raised himself up... (President: Please bring the end. )......................................................................................................... I'm in, I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. By allowing him to give a speech, an inappropriate speech, and never so far have politicians, no politician in this country has done so.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5005	Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Rule 225 and 226 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I'd like to ask a question or should I say make an appeal or a request to the foreign minister. By the way, I think the ministry is one of the few who passed the exam in the last 100 days and deserve all the credit. What's this about? On Saturday and Sunday, for the first time in my life, I was in Malta. There I met 20 or 30 of our fellow citizens, or our citizens. There live over 3,000 of our people, athletes, trainers, managers, doctors, builders, construction workers, etc. What's the topic? The Serb community in Malta, which is 1% of Malta's population, has no consular representative of our country in Malta. We have paradoxes and some stereotypes from some of the past. The Ambassador from Rome, Ms. Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, also covers Malta, and to get from Rome to Malta, it is 15 minutes before you leave Belgrade for Malta, has a seasonally direct flight line for Malta. It takes a consular representation to solve the earth's vital, existential, most pro-zacious problems of our people in Malta. A construction worker died. For days, his remains from Malta could not be shipped to Serbia. You have countries where there are no 30 of our people, and they have diplomatic representations, consular representations, etc. Life does its part. Malta is important because of these people, Malta is important geostrategic, Malta is important because of business and business arrangements. Believe me, whoever I met there, and people have met me and reported to the streets, everyone has urged us to mention that Serbia should have at least a consular representative there, because living circumstances are the ones that force us to respect our countrymen and our citizens living in Malta. That's my request, my proposal and my appeal. I hope the Foreign Ministry accepts them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5007	National MP Petar Jojic. Then Mr. Moma Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5008	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the provisions of 225 and 226. In fact, several citizens from our Republic asked the following - is it true that Croatia has about 500 companies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Is it true that Serbia does not have five in Croatia? Is it true, please answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the company "Frikom" was sold to the buyer Agrokop from Croatia? Is it true that it was sold "Somboled" and bought by the company "Lura" from Croatia? Is it true that "Intex – Mladenovac" was sold and bought by the 'Em profile' from Croatia? Is it true that the "Belgrade Paper Factory" was sold to the Croatian company "Pan Paper Industry"? Is it true that "The Deer Do", a famous karst, was sold to Tudjman's daughter or to Mesic's family, i.e. "Our cement" from Croatia? Is it true that the Bigz was sold and bought by the "New School Book" from Croatia? Is it true that Diamond was sold and that he bought Agrokop from Croatia? Is it true that "Dunavka - Velika Gradište" "Aureus Investu" from Croatia was sold? Is it true that Erdevik was sold to a Croatian company called "Top"? Is it true that "The Guard" from the Sremski Karlovci was sold to the Croatian company "Our cement"? Is it true that Podunavlje from Backa Palanka was sold to a Croatian businessman from Vinkovaca Branislav Despot? Is it true that Millennium Insurance was sold and bought by the Croatian company Crocija Insurance? Is it true that "Rotographics" in Subotica was sold to the Croatian company "Radio Graphics"? To these questions from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, please answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5009	I'd like to ask Mr. Buh first, and then Momo will be with you for a session of the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a session of the Committee has been convened in 1800 hours. I'd like to invite all the MPs who are members of the board to come to an agreement. I got information that the minister is not here, but we have to get him tomorrow morning. We will make contact with him to take our views before the meeting of the Srbigas Management Board, to give suggestions and to have the minister leave with the Committee's views. I've answered some more questions that I need to consider here. A representative of G17 plus, Susana Grubjesic, came out here, and she made certain lies about what was concluded in Moscow, who concluded a certain contract in Moscow and eventually turned out not to be signed by the current director who, we heard, in the meantime and resigned. It's very unserious of the authorities to go out here, to complain to the opposition, and to you, about certain things that you have the opportunity to check. How can someone, first of all, be a civil servant, go and conclude contracts without certain knowledge and ultimately present such facts here, unverified? What the SRS has with certain facts, I will now declare here. We received information that Mr Milankovic actually signed the dispute. Milankovic went to the post of vice-president of the Srbiagas Management Board for a small salary, one 9,000 euros, to be found. Milankovic is from G17. It's a reward for a job well done in Moscow and a contract signed, just for the record. Furthermore, we have information that in Yugoslavia, one of the shareholders is Zarko Zecevic, as an accidental friend of the citizen of Tomislav Nikolic. The minister of police is here and it would be good, given that we've heard a lot of the facts of the negative, illegal trades in Jurosagas, to examine that. I hope, given that the police minister is a star, and it is the representatives of Partizan, I think it is appropriate to do so. One more thing. Yesterday, the prime minister comes out with certain data on the reduction, or certain privileges in terms of paying such a high price of natural gas, 70% will be paid for the invoice delivered and 30% later. Is that the Prime Minister's decision? What's he based on? Why don't you wait for the right analysis? Why didn't he do it before that? It's very unserious of both the prime minister and the active authority to go out with certain things just because they started the fire. You can't put out a fire like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5011	Mr. Colakovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5012	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and Representatives of the Government, the Honorable People's MPs, I am reporting in accordance with Article 101, and in relation to Mr Maraš's discussion. We are a small parliamentary group, chosen, but also serious, approaching its work very seriously and responsibly. I don't think we should share in small and large, we should work together in the interests of this country and citizens. Secondly, what I want to say, and about what he said, we speak for ourselves, on behalf of the United Pensioners of Serbia, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia. If someone from the ruling coalition, whose member we are, has something to say, he will stand up for his party to say. Secondly, we think and we thought so far, and we ask now, how do you trust the gentleman you mention more than we do, no matter what he says. Until now, I was convinced that you trusted us and yourself more than the gentleman you mentioned. In that sense, we call upon you, within a month, there will be a bill on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, please support us, not the gentleman you're talking about, so let's see if the pensioners will provide a better life for 400,000 people who have pensions below 9,000. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: You must tell who it is. About Mr Dinkic. I ask you once again to accept our appeal, our request, to return to the agenda and accept the proposal of the President of the National Assembly to work on the agenda, and Mr. Buha explained that the Committee will sit down and consider everything you require. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-21-0.u5013	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. Since we are approaching the time that is normally foreseen as time for work until 1800 hours, and we have not done two extremely significant laws, according to the law on the protection of state borders and the law on the amendment and completion of the Law on Higher Education, and it was quite realistic that we are doing so today and that these two laws are now being completed. It is clear that Mrs Kolundzija was in contact with the Government of the Republic of Serbia all the time, which was actually advertising the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to convey the position the government has to do with the disputed contract. The point is that he will not enter into force until the government has considered the content of this contract in detail. I'd also like to inform you about it. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
