ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-11-0.u15454	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am Dr Jovan Krkobiæ, the oldest MP among you today. Let me open the First Constitutive Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this session and, before the start of work, welcome you and congratulate you on the election and on the trust that the citizens of Serbia have shown you, with the desire that we all work together successfully in the next term of office. We waited a little while until the seventh force finished its part of the job, so I'm sorry for this little wait. In the future, we'll work a little more precisely. I would like to inform you that today's First Constitutional session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, next to the MPs, is attended by the president of RIK and members of its team, so allow me to welcome them as well. I remind you that, according to Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, until the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is chaired by the oldest MP, who is assisted by one of the youngest MPs with four electoral lists who have achieved the highest result in the elections. Since I am the oldest MP of the people, I have the privilege and the obligation to chair this session until the election of the National Assembly President, in which the youngest Members of Parliament will assist me. The work of the National Assembly will be assisted by MPs: Jadranka Jovisic, the youngest MP from the Electoral List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic; Jelena Budimirovic, the youngest MP from the SRS Election List - Dr Vojislav Seselj; Aleksandra Ilic, the youngest MP from the DSS-NS-Vojslav Kostunica election list; Djordje Milicevic, the youngest national MP from the SPS-PUPS-JS election list. I ask the youngest Members of the people to come to their seats. In addition to the youngest MPs, Tamara Stojcevic, the secretary of the Assembly, too, will help me. And I welcome her. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 241 MPs attend today's session, well, according to Article 105, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 86(5) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there are conditions for working and deciding. The minutes at this session will be handled by the Secretary of the National Assembly. As usual, this session will be stenographed and recorded. I remind you that the National Assembly at the First Constitutional Session is working on the agenda set out in Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 6. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to these provisions, you have a agenda. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Confirmation of the mandate of Members of Parliament, 2. Election of President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, 4. Selection of members of the Working Body of the National Assembly, 5. The appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia which are prescribed the way and procedure for confirming the mandate of the Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (Art. Seven and eight. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's MPs gain the right and duty in the National Assembly on the day of their respective mandates. There have been MPs here for a long time, so they don't need this, but let these new ones know that's the case. Confirmation of the mandate of MPs is based on the assurance of the election of the MP and the RIK report on the elections carried out. The National Assembly, in a constitutional session, on a proposal from the presidency, educates a three-member commission, each with three electoral lists that received the largest number of MPs in the National Assembly. The Commission will be chaired by the oldest member of that committee. The Commission, on the basis of the RIK report, determines whether the information contained in the assurance of each MP's election is identical with the information contained in the RIK report and will report to the National Assembly. Based on the commission's report, the person chairing the constitutional session of the National Assembly finds that RIK has submitted a report on the elections conducted and on what assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the report, confirming the mandate of those MPs. The National Assembly was established by confirming the mandate of two-thirds of the MPs (Article 101(4)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). Since we have enough MPs here, we can do this job. In agreement with this and the consultations that have been carried out, I propose that the committee to determine the agreement of the Parliament's election and the RIK report on the elections carried out, elect the MPs: Bosko Ristic from the Election List for European Serbia-Boris Tadic, Vjerica Radeta from the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, Branislav Nedimovic from the Electoral List DSS-NS-Vojslav Kostunica. I would point out that, according to Article 105(2) point 15. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, necessary for the commission's education proposal to be voted by most of all MPs. Let me put this proposal to the vote. 247 MPs attend this session today. Therefore, we can make a vital decision. I am putting to the vote a proposal for the Commission's education to determine the agreement of the People's MPs and the RIK report on the elections made. Who is it for this commission proposal that was proposed? Given that there are 247 MPs in the hall, everyone voted for this proposal, so I find that this commission's proposal has been adopted and that it can take effect. Since we have educated the Commission to establish a consensus on the selection of MPs and the RIK report on the conduct of the elections, I would ask the members of the Commission to hold a session at the Green Salon on the ground floor immediately. I ask the representatives of the Commission to step down and work. We'll take a 60-minute break until the Commission's work is complete. I'm asking you all to return to the O.R. so we can move on. [[After break – 12.00]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the 1st item of the agenda – Confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament. I remind you that, with the invitation of this session, you have received a report from the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before the start of this session, you were presented with a report by the Commission to determine the agreement of the Parliament's election assurance and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. Does the Commission's rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 27(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Law on selecting Members of Parliament and Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the Commission's report on the agreement of the People's Parliament and the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I find that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out, and that all 250 assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out - confirming the mandate of all MPs. Since the term of office of all Members of Parliament has been confirmed, pursuant to Article 101(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly has been established, so allow me to wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. This, for today, has ended the session of the National Assembly. You will be informed of the continuation of the session. Thank you.
