ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u901	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an ordinary, average citizen of Serbia, in a break between hunger strikes due to a company where he worked for years, which he bought and destroyed by one of the privatisation magogs, and solving daily existential problems, awaiting a new government. What are you, gentlemen of the "yellow company" offering him with this ministry law? One naked political trade, the ministry's conglomerate and the most expensive executive machine in Serbia's history. You have given us 24 ministries, then so many state secretaries, well, according to the tried recipe "capoa di tuti capi" by Mladjan Dinkic, for each minister at least 15 advisers and assistants. Is there anything else in Serbia to sell so a machine like this can work and support itself? I don't think so. As for article 11 of this law, when the entire description of the ministry's work exempts the word "trafficking", which has been written and used exactly ten times, I can only conclude - no smaller ministry or larger minister, at least not physically larger, in the future government. That's why I don't see any reason for this future ministry not to be the Ministry of Infrastructure and Traffic. It is symptomatic, in fact, what is the portfolio of this ministry when you have kicked out of it activities related to foreign investment and concessions, which have been transferred, of course, to Mladjan Dinkic; when from this ministry, which is the Ministry of Infrastructure, exclusive investment in municipal infrastructure, although Serbia is drowning in waste and uncleaned fecal waters, and if, as the largest pearl, you have thrown inspection surveillance out of the area of air traffic, as if you want to politically encourage Maria Raseta-Vukosavljević and her 100-euro pixel for the VIP salon "Nikola Tesla". The Serbian Radical Party wants to fix something that has been predicated to a rapid collapse. That is why I call on you to vote for this amendment as well as for the other amendments proposed by the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u902	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Yesterday in the debate, we found that the amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word about these two amendments? Here you go. The word is Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, although yesterday there were few problems regarding the adoption of this amendment, we, gentlemen, have all taken the first step together to regulate a very important state issue. When you read that article, it was probably someone's attempt to move a very important supervisory authority out of the government around here. It's just, for all I've been able to see these months, because I've been dealing with this issue for a few months, there wouldn't be anyone controlling air traffic. Gentlemen, it is that there are two institutions or two companies dealing with these issues since 2003, when there was no power in this House to make a legal solution and to change the Air Traffic Act of 1988, but the members of the state community have made decisions so that the Directorate of Civil Aviation and the Agency for Traffic Control have continued to work on the decisions of the government of the state union. But, gentlemen, decisions are not law, their work is not legal; these decisions by state functions have been passed on to two companies, but in these two companies the arrests have found party personnel. Now I'm going to give you some amazing pay facts in these two organizations. Yesterday, looking at the 2008 budget, I compared the budget of the Air Traffic Directorate to the budgets of local self-government. Of the 141 municipalities, only 15 municipalities in 2008 had a higher budget than the Air Traffic Directorate for 2006, because I only had data for 2006. The average salary in 2006 was 200,000 dinars, far higher than the president's salary. You know that MPs call us journalists many times because of our salaries, but no one mentions the Air Traffic Directorate. This second facility, the Air Traffic Agency, on some issues, is even worse on salaries. Why, gentlemen, did all this happen? By 2003, we had no problems on this matter. A civil aviation directorate was formed instead of the Air Traffic Sector at the Ministry of Transport. A flight control agency was formed instead of the Federal Flight Control Authority. It is explained here in the country that this ICAO standard, as they call it, and other European standards define that supervisory and regulatory functions must be separated from operational or service functions, and it was absolutely not a problem. The supervisory-regulatory function, gentlemen, had to remain in the competent ministry. It could have been, if it had been formed, the Directorate, but that the directorate was, as a state body, connected to the ministry. But you know how governments formed and, simply, the ministry of traffic was lost. If we now have the Ministry of Infrastructure, that directorate should be a state body within the Ministry of Infrastructure. That didn't happen, gentlemen. That's the problem. When we pass air traffic laws, and we have to do it as soon as possible, we have to discuss that issue. When these two agencies were established, it was not done to seek European Union standards. They're not separated these two functions, supervisory-regulatory and this operational one. So the Flight Control Agency retained all functions of the Federal Flight Control Authority, and the Directorate of all functions of the Department of Air Traffic of the Ministry of Defence. Between these two organizations, which are enterprises... The Agency for Traffic Control is a limited liability undertaking, while the Civil Aviation Directorate is a medium legal entity, i.e. another legal person who runs the business books on a final framework for enterprises and cooperatives. From the very beginning, the directorate was not staffed to perform supervisory and regulatory functions and could not do so because these functions were not legal. It's just funny, gentlemen, if I show you what the 2006 decision looks like when Serbia decided to exercise founding rights in the Civil Aviation Directorate after the state's collapse. Gentlemen, for one country and one government, it is unserious that such an important state issue should be resolved by one such act. I already said that the Directorate was not staffed to perform supervisory and regulatory functions because, in addition to the people of the Department of Traffic, he received the arrest of many party personnel without expertise and operational experience. Today, the directorate lacks about 80 sublegal acts, perhaps on a proposal from the directorate, to bring in the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of Infrastructure. Then we have a situation that the Directorate, although not a state body, brings for itself acts that the Ministry of Infrastructure should bring. He even brought a rule book. Even representatives of the Directorates signed interstate agreements in Brussels on 26 June 2006, and thus imposed certain international obligations on the government of Serbia. In various disputes occurring in the air traffic sector, the Directorate appears as a first-degree body. However, all complaints about the decisions made by the Directorates over the years almost had no one to be instructed. By law, it's not regulated who this second-degree body is, and that should be the Ministry of Infrastructure. Disputes on the issue are worth about $50m and the state of Serbia may have to pay damages to various domestic or foreign legal entities worth $50m. What's strange is that neither the Directorate nor the Agency were founded in a legitimate way. Financial business is very important for these two institutions. I've already said that one institution, the Directorate, has an annual budget for 2006 of 321 million dinars, and the Agency, based on a fly-over of aircraft across our territory, makes about 100 million dollars each year. These were funds that used to go straight to the budget. Today, we are explained that funds from overflight across our territory cannot go into the budget, but to a special account in Europe and then return to the Agency's account again. Gentlemen, we are here to legally regulate that the state of Serbia achieves its interests in this field. It cannot happen that one company or another works in state buildings, uses all state resources, and the state of Serbia does not benefit from that. In part, the directorate’s work shall be provided from a taxi to fly the aircraft paid to the Directorate by the Aviation Control Agency. It is about funds that have always been treated as public budget revenue, which are now available without any control by the Assembly and the Government. As a result, the Directorate spends enormously large funds, primarily on salaries and fees. I already said the average salary in 2006 was 200,000 dinars. That year, 26,000,000 dinars were paid for. These are data from the National Bank of Serbia. As legally done that year, it is seen from the fact that the Directorate has paid a fine for an economic offense of 2,593,000 dinars. With, I guess, the directorate's silent support of the authorities or their knowledge has brought in all the regulations for which the government is responsible. In doing so, he did not respect the basic rules and principles. Because how else would it be possible, under the Law on State Administration and under the Law on Ministry, so enormously, even eight times the average salary, to raise salaries in a company that is represented as a state body? Financial transactions are illegal because the Directorate has not been accounting and paying value added tax for years, although it is not legally exempt from that. On this issue, as with non-payments in the registration of aircraft, the damage done to the state is about 50 million dinars. I have already said that the Directorate has unauthorizedly signed the accession of the Serbian state to certain international agreements, contrary to the Constitution and laws, and has done Serbia great harm. This was done either out of total ignorance or out of personal interest, because managing people in the Directorate provided for themselves and their loved ones some jobs in these international forums. I brought this up for your own consideration, gentlemen, when we discuss air traffic law, which should be adopted this year. I'm going to say something briefly about the flight control agency. Unlike the Directorate, it is registered with the Business Registers Agency as a limited liability company. On behalf of the Republic of Serbia, the agency collects fees for overflying state territory, which it has as its own. This revenue used to be budget revenue. Let me tell you, it's about a hundred million dollars a year. The data I received about the Director-General's salary, I'm not going to name it, are different: from 8, 16 and up to 20,000 euros. I got that information, and I'd like someone to examine it. It is paid by the state of Serbia because it uses state resources. Serbia's airspace is a state resource. It's been 15 minutes, Mr. Delic. ) The second thing that was done between 2000 and 2008, is that it was lost part of the airspace previously controlled by the Federal Flight Control Authority. You, sir, seem to be trying to tell me you know each other in this area. Lower airspace towards Bosnia and Herzegovina has been lost. The airspace above Kosovo and Metohija has been lost. You need to know which foreign country got that airspace. We also controlled 80km of airspace in the depths of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Right now we're not in control of this... (President: Mr. Delicia, 17 minutes. ) The leaders of the Air Traffic Control Agency have even changed the routes of our territory that used to go north-west and that were more suited to the Republic of Serbia, because these were longer routes and were charged with larger funds, so that they are now using shorter, west-east, as they correspond to the control of the flight from Zagreb. So, young sir, take a little interest in the matter, and I can give you all the documentation that talks about it. (President: Mr Delic, you have the right to participate in the debate on the amendment, after 15 minutes have expired. In conclusion, I just wanted to draw your attention to a serious crime in the area for which the government is in charge, to make sure of it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u904	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Milica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u905	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted concerns Article 11. Proposal for a law on ministries. According to the amendment, in the current Article 11, I add Article 2, which reads: "The Ministry of Infrastructure also performs the tasks of state administration relating to spatial planning and urbanism, establishing conditions for building buildings, regulating housing relations and housing, construction, construction land, municipal infrastructure and municipal activity, the affairs of engineering geodesy, inspection supervision in the area of urbanism, construction and municipal infrastructure, as well as other tasks laid down by law. "In yesterday's debate, my colleague from the DSS-NS parliamentary group, Mr Milan Lapcevic, submitted an amendment relating to Article 2 of the same law. It is the responsibility and scope of the affairs of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, as set out in this draft law. Mr Lapcevic felt, with the right, that the Ministry of Environment should remain within that scope of business and activity, the jurisdiction it has under the existing law. I also find it natural for the Ministry of Environment to remain as it is today. What makes me say that? Of course, I know that in many countries spatial planning is added to the protection of the environment and that it is conceptually related if one part of that spatial planning is seen, not how the entire area of urban and construction has been taken into account in this law, artificially unbreakable and added to another ministry. What do I mean? Such a concept is possible, but it is possible if there is a logical trail, if urbanism and construction are provided with a space that belongs to the already existing ministry in this law, not in your proposal, and that area is left with a balance sheet, a balance sheet for groundwater reserves, normatives and standards for the production of geological maps, it is natural that it belongs to the Ministry of Environment. It is unnatural that building buildings and setting conditions for this construction, therefore, urbanism and construction, practically belong to the ministry as you have suggested here. So, the area of urbanism and construction is such an important and broad area that it is possible to establish a special ministry that would have jurisdiction only urbanism and construction. Of course, it is quite clear to me that the draft law on the ministries that you have submitted has 24 ministries, that it is very irresponsible to ask that you have another ministry that covers only this and we as a responsible parliamentary group will not propose that you have another ministry. That's why we think it's very appropriate for this environment ministry to stay the way it is. The spatial planning should not be added to it, because even the concept of this moment does not correspond to what we as a state have set in the past few years since we have dealt with environmental laws, environmental protection. Don't touch anything right now. In the Ministry of Infrastructure, leave the area of urbanism and construction, and then someone else makes another concept that can follow it. What else do I want to say? I'm absolutely sure you're not so naive that you accidentally singled out the entire area of urbanism and construction and now attached it to another ministry. It is clear to me that this is a political game, that you have reduced your authority to your coalition partner who will be a minister in the area, and that you have added the entire area elsewhere now. Of course, I don't know who's gonna be the environmental minister now, because it's obviously irrelevant to you, so you don't even mention that name. So don't touch anything right now. If you need help, it's obvious that the DSS-NS parliamentary group has the capacity to make you such a law, a bill like that, feel free to address it, we want to do it because we want to be an opposition that wants to contribute to something. So today and these days, we're not fighting for telling stories and being against you just like that, we're just trying to sort that area out the way that it really needs to be arranged. It's obvious we know how to do that. If you want our help we will submit a proposal to amend such a law, if you consider it appropriate, and we will because we consider it a similar and political game, political trade is another area. It is obvious that this moment has prevailed and you know very well that simply these two things do not go together and that right now you are a political story, you are putting political trade irresponsiblely ahead of what is the interest of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u906	Here, you have the word after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me remind you, those of you who sit in these parliamentary benches for a little while longer, that about three years ago I started this affair with regard to the Flight Control Agency. General Delic has come up with new data, but I remind you that whenever a debate is launched from this assembly booth, these problems have been pushed under the carpet and to this day an incredible robbery of the state has been carried out through the Flight Control Agency. I'll mention the name of the director of the flight control agency because I mentioned it and then. The gentleman's name is Nikola Stankov, and by interest he is the husband of Biljana Stankov, who was the secretary, i.e. the head of the cabinet of Zoran Djindjic. These are the qualifications of Nikola Stankov who recommended him to come to this very important and responsible function. I'm going to take just a few data on how money was spent, state money, because money was collected right from the overpass of our sky. Every five months, Nikola Stankov and his crew changed their official cars, bought new, very high-class cars, and spent between a million and two million euros for it. Let me remind you of my discussions from that period and that the director decided to buy four motor sleds, because they had radar on the Kopalnik, so they had to go to the sleds. By the way, there's 15 days when the radar is controlled, it skis. Those sleighes could only be used by Nikola Stankov and three other men from his closest environment. As for the salary, I remind you that at the time when MPs had the salary of 42,000 dinars, Nikola Stankov had 1.2 million. I warned the Serbian public from this pay phone. Of course, the state didn't do anything, because those who brought him to that place wouldn't allow it. As for the investment, to remind you, he made... The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia had two radar systems covering the entire territory of the state and those 60 and 80 kilometers outside the border, because when one flight control takes over the aircraft from the other, one time water and the other. In the meantime, many countries have gone, the SRJ is gone, the sky has fallen, but the radar has increased drastically, so instead of those two, we have seven. It was made at Murtenica near Užica, in Zlatibor, it was made to remind you of this discussion, i.e. some of the works were done on the Rily Mountain in Bulgaria, so it stopped. So we've been building radar on the territory of a foreign state. I don't want to make a relationship about Nicola Stankov's belongings, but for the record. A new radar was created on the Kopalnik, a new radar was created in Podgorica. The equipment that was built into these radars was purchased, of course, abroad, because we don't produce such equipment, from a very famous radar equipment company from a country that's huge in that area in the world; radars from Vietnam have been purchased. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you don't need to be particularly smart, so realize that in these very purchases, there was an incredible robbery. General Delic is absolutely right, it was not controlled, or controlled by those from the "yellow company" so that the commission that was thus shared in equal honor among those who are in this whole messaging business. At the airport, a new flight control building was built at Belgrade airport. As for human resources policy and human resources solutions at the Flight Control Agency, women with medium-sized equipment who had nothing to do with the profession could have been head of science doctors, old, tried flight controllers who spent the entire working life in that particular control. They chased up high-quality flight controllers and brought in dilettantes and these dilettants were handling it, so it could have happened four months ago to schedule the equipment, schedule the automatics, and all the planes over Serbia's territory were flying blindly or being taken over by other flight controls. Then our instructions from Croatia and Bulgaria are airships to our airport. There is one more thing that the certified patriot Nikola Stankov, a euro fan, loves the euro very much, has done – we today have no control over Serbia's territory. I don't mean the planes of our army, our troops don't fly anymore, and we don't need an air force when we have a Minister of the Sutanovec, we don't need anything anymore. We don't know who's flying Serbia's territory and what's flying over our heads. We don't know, because flight control doesn't control military aircraft, and by the time Nikola Stankov arrived, that's exactly what she was doing. One more thing, when I took my word for it, because I couldn't tell you when a member of the Justice Department was being discussed. Major Šisic, a man who has been trained as a pilot, a man who is a soldier, who knows what orders are, who carried out the order of one moment, those from the "yellow company" handed over to the European court, i.e. the Italian court. First he was sentenced to life imprisonment, and then his sentence was reduced to 15 years. After a certain time, he was returned to serve time in Sremska Mitrovica. I recently met him and learned the frantic fact that thanks to the current minister of justice, because we do not have the other one (what they call "Mr. 10%", because when he was president of the municipality he couldn't even buy toilet paper if 10% was not provided to Mr. Petrovic), so thanks to Mr. Petrovic, Major Šisic, a witness patriot, he was still in prison for another year. What's this about? After a certain period, conditions for parole shall be met. A year ago, Major Šisic gained those conditions. When he applied to the "minister of injustice" Petrovic said, "let him do time," we have to prove to our testified friends that we respect their judicial decisions. These are the consecrated friends, gentlemen "yellow" who immediately recognized Kosovo and Metohija. It's a confidential friend from whose airfields, from Avian, took off the planes that bombed Yugoslavia. These are the consecrated friends whose pilots, to remind you, rocketed that column of civilians in Kosovo and Metohija, with 80 people killed. That pilot who killed 80 civilians in the returning column... It's about Albanians coming back because they didn't want to listen to that scenario so everyone would come out at once, and then they bombed them to scare the rest of them. Of course, that captain, that Italian Air Force pilot, didn't even open the court door, let alone answer, let alone be sentenced to life imprisonment. With Serbs, with representatives of the Serb people, with citizens of Serbia, they can do anything. Unfortunately, you too seem to be able to do anything because you are following their orders. God forbid there is such an ignorant man in this government as Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u908	The word is Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u909	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few more facts to say. Until 2003, we had one of the best integrated civil-military airspace control systems in Europe. Besides us, that's the kind of system Switzerland had. All the countries of Europe were seeking this very system and that system. And in the new Defence Act, it is envisaged that this civil-military system should be integrated in this way. But you no longer have soldiers at the Agency, and you know that as long as there was SUKLA, the director was always a soldier and that 50% of the employees were soldiers. There are no soldiers left, only the military director is in Batajnica, and in the King the wife of the commander of the airport is employed. After all, it doesn't matter that much. The important thing is that we are at a far lower level than we were before. There's one more thing I want to tell you, and it's about the activity that the Directorate had to organize. It's about forming a search and rescue service. Because of this and because of the negotiations that the Directorate has just conducted around this service, we have practically lost 137 million dinars these years. The government probably did not participate in this, because if it had participated it would not have allowed such important activity to take place in Serbia's MUP jurisdiction. What is Serbia's MUP equipped to do with the search and rescue of aircraft? The army of Serbia must and has always had that service. As well as integrated air traffic management, civil-military, this could have been done in the same way that the military was responsible for the search for aircraft. Here it is primarily thought of civil aircraft, since it must have that service. In all this time we've lost so much money that we could buy two brand-new MI 17 helicopters, which are currently the best helicopters for that purpose, because one costs three million dollars, brand-new. This is how the money went nowhere. You know the fact that the Army today has only three MI8 helicopters that can fly. Gentlemen, I said this so that when the Air Traffic Act is discussed, and you will do it primarily, you have all these questions in mind. I believe that the Air Traffic Directorate, or civil aviation, should be a state body and be directly bound to the Ministry of Infrastructure until there is another ministry, or the Ministry of Traffic. The Agency, as a limited liability company, should be subject to jurisdiction because it has only an operational or service function and can only do so. The law, which is to be passed, will regulate that part of these funds for the use of Serbia's resources must return to Serbia, which is not the case now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u911	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am reporting on the amendments submitted by my colleague, Milica Vojic-Markovic, to Article 11, which says that matters relating to planning and construction, namely spatial planning and urbanism, are being transferred from the Ministry of Environment Protection to the Ministry of Infrastructure. This amendment is very similar to the amendment I submitted to Article 2. The draft law on ministries as it regulates what area a particular ministry will deal with and what tasks it will have in its jurisdiction. So, the Democratic Party of Serbia, as an opposition party, believes that the government, which will have more ministries than the previous one, should be effective and rational anyway. When there are more ministries, these ministries should have in their jurisdiction those jobs that will be able to carry out in a quality way, not artificially connected and that they cannot function in the best way. Why is this important? It is important for the simple reason that the Ministry of Environmental Protection must exist on its own because the affairs of urbanism, planning, building, spatial planning will be such (and the problems in Serbia are such) that this area of environmental protection will be completely thrown into another plan. The minister who will also be in charge of spatial planning and environmental protection is likely to address only matters of spatial planning, urban planning and construction, and will likely deal with ways to prevent the Minister of Infrastructure from promoting too much. If we want to have ministries that are effective, the Ministry of Infrastructure must be united and the affairs of the state administration in the area of spatial planning and construction. All that Serbia today has as natural resources can be reduced to a healthy environment and healthy food, healthy food production. When a stranger passes through Serbia, the first impression of the country comes from the roads it passes and from the purity of the country it passes through. Neither one of them in this country is in great shape, far from it. Therefore, it is necessary to give the Minister for Infrastructure full authority to build, first of all, highways, and the Minister for Environment Protection should deal with those tasks that are within its jurisdiction - to make our country cleaner, to have cleaner air and to be able to enter a line of ecological countries that will produce healthy food, which is highly sought and appreciated on the European market, which is our export chance. Please accept this amendment, because I am sure it will be important for the effective work of the government and for the effective work of ministers. If you have already created an unnatural government, a completely unnatural coalition, do not now create an unnatural, artificial ministry, to cut one piece from one ministry and artificially attach one to another, only to harm your coalition partner, or minister from the coalition party Mr. Mrkonjic, who is here today. I believe he will agree, too, that the Ministry of Infrastructure must also have spatial planning and competences in the area of building facilities. You also know that wild construction is something that destroys this Serbia and makes a mockery of our cities and settlements, precisely because there is no organized work in the area of building objects, in the area of spatial planning, in the area of urbanism. Our cities, our settlements, our villages are, to say the least, curved butchers. This should be placed under one portfolio and the infrastructure and construction of buildings under one cap, so that the minister can deal in a comprehensive manner with these problems, which will certainly contribute to the efficiency of the work and the ministry, and the Ministry of Environment and the entire government. The opposition's task is not to propose laws, but we also want to point out to you from the parliamentary majority and to the citizens of Serbia that such proposals and solutions are better and more effective. Do not always be against what is argued and what will certainly be of benefit to you, as well as to the citizens of Serbia. I call on you to accept this amendment, because it is in the interest of both the MPs and all the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u912	Thank you. On the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. Proposal for a law on ministries. Namely, he came up as a logical follow-up to Mr. Mica Rogovic's amendment to Article 1st point 11. where he proposed that the name of the Ministry of Trade and Services be changed and that it reads "The Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Services". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the interpretation of the amendment, let me just make a few parallels between the amendment laws and the additions to the Government Act and the Ministry Act. In fact, this law on ministries and the law on amendments to the Government Act are also technical and political. As I was saying in the debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, the SRS has nothing to do with it, nor can it affect, but to a significant extent, the elements of trade are contained in this law. Now I say, as I said then, illicit trafficking is a crime, and what you do is also illegal. However, in this law, it seems to me that no one has noticed it, there is a violation of the Constitution. I noticed that reading the Ministry Act in Article 9. Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the government is made up of a president, one or more deputies and ministers, and this law on the ministries in Article 9. you have introduced an institution -- a six-minister. So Mladjan six-terminstar Dinkic will be the minister of infrastructure and regional development. I don't have the opportunity to recognize your personal solutions, so I couldn't in law on amendments to the Government Act to see who would be the first vice president, or vice president of the government, but here and how to notice that Mladjan Dinkic, Mladjan is the six-minister Dinkic... And in all of this, his great friend Boris the fisherman, Tadic, will continue to try to catch or catch the goldfish... I think it'll be without success. But to return specifically to this amendment. Why did I propose this, when a special tourism ministry could not be established already? What do professional associations, or esnaf associations such as JUTA, the hotel association, the spa association, say? They think it would be a good solution if there were a special tourism ministry. Believe that there are many reasons for this, but we from the Serbian Radical Party will not propose to open new ministries, because with this 24, even though the number itself is not some big problem... But what you will produce afterwards with this number of ministries will cost and will certainly harm the citizens of Serbia. What further needs it to pay particular attention to this ministry, or tourism? You heard yesterday from Mr. Rogovic's presentation, and Miss Natasa Jovanovic, as someone with extensive experience in tourism, pointed to a wealth of tourist destinations in Serbia. What makes Serbia known not only in the environment but also beyond, with beautiful and good tourist destinations, is the motive for this segment to be in the Ministry of Trade and Services. Tourism is a multidisciplinary business branch and it has a direct impact on infrastructure development (i.e., Comrade Mrkonjic) so that well-organised and developed tourism would have a direct impact on the rapid construction of the infrastructure in Serbia. But he would not only withdraw road infrastructure, but also agricultural production, and electricity industry, and construction operations and a series of other areas. Special consideration is needed on this part of the economic activity, as a relatively small investment can lead to a large number of jobs. Not only are ski resorts activities in tourism, but rural, religious, river, hunting tourism and a number of other tourist disciplines in this case would be much more pronounced than is the case now. Local self - administrations try to encourage the development of bar rural or other forms of tourism by pioneering steps, but without the help of the Republic it will not be possible. The municipality of Ljubovija has made a major shift in this, but it is not the only one; the good potential for tourism development also has Mali Zvornik, Loznica, Krupanj. As you heard yesterday from Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's statement, there is almost no place in Serbia where this kind of business activity cannot be developed much faster. There is a tourist event in Ljubljana, which is a regatta held on July 12th, where there will be about 1,500 vessels or close to 15,000 participants on the Drina River. Such potentials have both Mali Zvornik and Loznica. The local self-government addressed the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development asking for funds to support such a event, which already has international importance and character, because it surpassed local self-government. To this day, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has not intervened. When they asked Mladjan 6-minute-old Dinkic when he would be, he says "make a ski resort". Water melts snow, but citizens' patience will one day stop and take up power for Mladjan Dinkic, who wonders about almost everything in Serbia when it comes to money. Why are we putting the Ministry of NIP on the other side of the road? It's a very clear thing: because the NIP ministry will be able to intervene, only where political party members are in power, depending on who runs the NIP ministry. This certainly is not good and with such practice should be stopped, and a special accent should be put on the development of tourism, even if it was in the Ministry of Trade and Services.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u914	Ms. Natasa Jovanovic answered. I would like to inform you that the constitutional session of the Committee on Gender Equality will be held at 1400 hours at the Blue Salon.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no accident that Mr. Sreto Peric, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, has submitted an amendment to Article 13 of this bill. He comes from one area that many of you have never, unfortunately, visited. Just to start off like that song "Drino Water", so it'll all be clear to you, and only when you show up in Ljubljana do you really feel like you're in a paradise place, first because of the fact that it's Mecca for Tourism: Sokograd monastery, etnosello, all the rarest things about the plant and animal world, the famous white-headed soup, and the regatta on Drina this year, Petrovska, to which Mr. Sreto Perić invited you. I would like to say that within the framework of the strategy that was made in 2005, when the Minister of Tourism and Trade was Mr. Bojan Dimitrijevic, the state did not start investing at all and creating elementary conditions for Ljubovija and the whole region, including Šumadija, from which I come, and other parts of Serbia to get an opportunity to go to the world market. A few days ago, not to mention the name and not to advertise an electronic medium, the people who, I would say, are the most invited in the field of tourism are specifically engaged in this business every day in the country and abroad; Mr Cerovic is the president of the JUTA Association, the other gentleman is my former colleague and owner of one of our largest tourist companies. They spoke of differences between us and the countries in the environment and why tourists in Serbia today decide, at the invitation of the tour operator, to spend their vacations exclusively outside the country and not to use these local destinations. They use them, but not to a sufficient extent, because what is completely commercialized are some mountain centres and some spas, but we ourselves are not aware of how much tourism development is possible in each part of Serbia. The Voljavca monastery, located in the old municipality of Stragari in the area of our town of Kragujevac, has bathrooms built back in 1931. I mentioned the Banjska monastery, one of the oldest monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija, and the inability to, due to the overall situation and occupation of our southern province, interested Russian investors come, to take advantage of this whole area of thermal water that has long been described in the songs of the Kosovo cycle as water that cures boneache and which is indeed a real cure. Not only am I talking about Voljača in Stragari, all those potentials that have seats in central Serbia, but the fact that this spiritual and monastery tourism is not being used properly and that almost every church municipality... Well, our forest eparchy only thanks to the enthusiasm of a young man has managed to take a large number of people from our neighborhood and tourists from the surrounding area to some of the wonderful monastery tours. To do anything in this strategic development of tourism, we need to create the necessary conditions, she wrote a lot and said to Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic in the pre-election campaign, that we have foreign investments. Again, I must return to the fact that this separatist brotherhood in Montenegro has gone one step further because they know that this fresh capital, which comes, first of all, from the Russian side, in a very short time can contribute greatly to the employment of people and the creation of opportunities to provide services in the area of hospitality and tourism. That chart I read to you last night about our citizens' total consumer basket, it's actually... When there are no inflows of foreign guests, because only our people use these facilities in Serbia, and for these arrangements abroad are often owed through these credit cards and you can see that these arrangements are thus offered... When they go to one of these countries, bringing in that hotels have promised three or four stars, they usually experience disappointment because categorization in those countries is not the same as ours. Our hotels, especially those newly built in certain Banjian private-owned places, really deserve that categorization. When you look at all this, you see that our people's participation in the use of services in catering, restaurants and hotels is barely 2.8%. So our future is certainly the development of this economic branch. It is necessary that, as soon as possible, before the MPs... Unfortunately, I don't expect this ministry to do it, because it's a side job for Dinkic; when he makes his own ski resort, he doesn't care about all this other stuff, and Love, and Fighter, and Stragars, and Banjska, etc. So it is necessary to pass the law on Banjski and climate places, because in the context of the tourism development strategy, what Serbia can rely on specifically are these centres and these capacities. We will keep warning and fight for it. In this consolidation of forces in the new assembly, we insisted that the chairman of the Committee on Trade and Tourism be of opposition parties. In our internal agreement with the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia, we agreed to make it their president. However, I must inform you, and you must know, Mrs. Kolundjia, by mistake, or I don't already know why, there was a replacement, or no respect for that agreement. So, the Committee on Trade and Tourism belongs to the opposition. You say it's not true. Well, if it's not true, then let's just start doing some things over and over again. If that's how we're gonna stumble... What? You did talk, but yesterday I talked to him about it. I don't know what kind of epilogue he is at the end of your conversation, but Mr. Arsen Djuric is convinced that he should be the chairman of that assembly committee. If you think that's so, that's correct and fair and that's by the quota that belongs to us, here, colleagues from the DSS -- the NS are also convinced that this is the place that belongs to them, at least this time we don't have to argue about it. It would be better if it were a representative from the opposition, especially a fellow who is a member of the Committee from their party, who normally works in this area, so that we can induce from the Assembly these processes that we stand for. The right to tell you, ever since the Ministry of Tourism was abolished, for the sake of this committee, here are the witnesses of people who are members of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, in the last meeting the president was a Serbian radical Nebojsa Stefanovic, not one single moment was touched by any topic of tourism. And in the old days there was also an assistant (there were no state secretaries), and people employed by the Ministry of Tourism have come to the Assembly at least three times a month, regardless of what we were opposition; Mr. Baralic was the chairman of the Committee, I was his deputy. We have managed to get in touch with people who are in particular dealing with this area, both in the JUTA association and in the leading tour operators, to come up with some knowledge and some common reflections on what steps the state needs to take. After that, a strategy was adopted in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but it is obvious that it remains only a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u916	Thank you. The title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Milet Pocurica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u917	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are witnesses now (a little bit of us, but the public listens) that someone who received a million and two hundred in Serbia today receives a million-and-a-half dinar salary from a state firm, where the state appoints a board of directors, or a flight control director, or who knows what else, that there are 300-400 thousand dinars in many boards of directors. Speaking of the parliamentary salary, she has been standing for four years on those famous thousands of euros. I think citizens know it all, we don't compare it, and we don't regret our not so much. I want to draw attention to the topic that is now current in Serbia, which is enrolment in higher education institutions. Indeed, slowly and insensitively passes through our education system the idea that education will have to be paid soon. Full capitalist conditions are slowly assumed as a model of behavior in a poor country full of young, talented students, children who may have, not their fault, since 2000 have learned that they have some higher rights and absolute freedoms; children we often see on TV, media and these electronic transmission communications, mobile phones, in bizarre situations; children we often try for, for the sake of not so well-intentioned TV interviews, to transfer part of responsibility to parents and to blame for behavior beyond some normal behavior on the lack of family education. The subject is directly related to what I want to talk about, and these are the powers of the Ministry of Education. I'll go back to the subject after a brief elaborated problem as far as we came with the right, unnaturally, and I guess to us traditionally unown, the right for children to get even with their teachers, to be graded and to study in workshops instead of in classrooms, and to be able to do whatever they want, slap and slap their professors. Then, even teachers aren't controlled enough, intimated with them, on trips they move under very strange circumstances, maybe even using drugs, taking them to cafes. The liberalisation, I guess, as a promised reward along with the never-coming six billion euros, has arrived on the other side of the border. That liberalisation of the relationship we provided to the children was quickly, elegantly, elastically accepted. Of course they're not particularly guilty, it's easy for them, their brains are young, they're full of content of foreign TV shows that show one, sometimes anachronous and anarcholiberal behavior. However, teachers were not left behind. That sense of control is lost. Why? Maybe the Ministry isn't working so well, maybe the general idea of some academic freedoms has been violated. Did we get everything we've brought these laws? Did we have to come to this sensitive sphere by copying the standards of Western law? I'm going back to the opening sentence. So in many homes, people today think they're going to continue to educate their children. The tuitions are from 1,000 - 2,000 euros, up to three and a half and four thousand for those who have thus crossed the line, so within the quota that the college can receive by accreditation. Who raises the level of those who will self-finance the visions of those whom the state will pay? What is happening and why is there no description of what the Ministry of Education will do? The subject I called to explain was necessarily connected to what I reported when I spoke about the amendment to Article 2. We said that we agreed, not just for the rationalization of the education system and scientific and research activities, to bring the two ministries together into one. In order for a man to perform his global functions from his districts to follow it and have more general weight, even to seal some party if necessary... It's just, let's pray to God that in this coalition, we, unnaturally, for the sake of our social justice program, are taken by the Socialists. Maybe they'll change something, maybe they'll remember that they, like us, said in party election campaigns that education would be free and that everyone would have the right to school; maybe we'll comb through tuitions, and see if we need enrolment in the first place when children regularly go through all levels of the education system. What do we get with it, besides a lot of stress? I happen to know, it's my family's chance, that some kids who've been preparing for college for a year have come in, and that's the little door; you will-you won't, you don't have to, if you don't have to, but if you want, you pay well and you're getting ready, nobody tells you – you can't and you're not talented enough. Children who are the best, there are material clues, usually fall on the entrance exam. Now you see things moving in Serbia; it is and it is not so tragic, but it is not commendable. How many people in Serbia can afford to educate their children and pay their tuition for two or three thousand euros? And the kids are talented and all they want... That's what they need to do, they were good students, they were worth it; they were raised and they were neat, they were cultural children, and you can't forbid them... What if it's a signal that health care will be like that? What if anything more serious or pre-arranged has to be paid? They'll find the models easily. So it's a very dangerous model of taking a man's Western capitalist rude behavior and behavior. How can this have anything to do with what I'm talking about? It can, because what the Ministry of Education is doing and what we've now intervened in amendments... Much of the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Scientific Action is not contained in the description of the work of the Ministry that you have given, some very serious things, a policy of enrolment, a policy of higher education, and in collaboration with the National Council. Watch as much as any policy, and what's come up? Who surveyed it – Serbia needs so many construction engineers, so many artists, so many dentists, that, and so much, in Serbia, it's missing it, and for the next five years, and then the state favors budget payments, when it's already in play, 40% of the budget, 60% pay alone, slowly, so 38, 37, so slowly. Or to create ideal conditions that someone has the highest possible average. How's it gonna come? And the intervention and the connection. We cannot have in Serbia today, for example, for the art or other colleges of 150 geniuses. The real geniuses have 10-15, eight, and that's it; that's not even a professor who had to knock it down because of a political relationship or an intervention. These other children, who have indeed achieved their regular work and effort, the question is whether they will be able and how they will be educated in the future. Why am I saying this? Because it's about the Ministry's jurisdiction within the Higher Education Act. It states in Article 23 – Ministry responsible for... When you read what the Ministry is doing here, you can't read it. It's not that famous "and other jobs" line, is it? Well, isn't this the most important part a classy floor – the rest? Why is this so badly written? Follow the development of higher education, follow the policy of enrolment – that's what I'm saying. So are we going to enroll in four medical schools, I don't know, 1,000 doctors? If we don't need 1,000 doctors, let's cut the pains and the families and the children and everyone. This year it takes 700 doctors, it's so much on the desk, some kind of strategic plan is like that, so much so Tomic can receive, except when the elections are so they have to accept their members, of course, so take 10-15 or less into specialization... But generally, include Tommy's needs and tell – Serbia needs so many specialists, so many general medicine, so many pharmacists, so many dentists. Well, somebody's got to do it. That's what multiple ministries are involved in. Where's the government's coordination function? Why don't you know that? It's a policy of enrolment, for the Ministry's sake, and nobody's doing it here. Distribution of budget funds and control of use, it's just a galamitias. No one living can explain why two of the same universities in Serbia receive a different amount of money from the ministry per student. As possible, what are the criteria, how does Belgrade get the most per student of medicine, engineering, language, etc.? What are these criteria? Who's going to break it once, which commission, which expert bodies? What's the National Council doing? Shall we once bring them into an equal position? Why did we give the so-called. academic freedoms of different species in which we cannot influence even as representatives of children who will be students, nor can they participate there? Why do we deceive them about the importance of the student parliament? Who's finally asking them what? They've introduced Bologna... We did not even see Bologne, except on two pages of the Bologna Declaration, which were operationally developed by Vodnelic, Turajlićka, Gašo Knezevic, and adopted by Vuksanovic. Well, he found himself the smartest to adopt. They pushed it through, and now we've put the kids in Bologna, they won't be able to get out of school, school benches. We don't know what obligations we've given them, the complete teaching program, everything's the same, no professor has given up his course, he has summed it up in a short time, the student can't get out of the bench, he's got to be there all the time. But college is a college thing. The university is not required. You can't make a kid sit in a classroom for 10-15 hours and listen to exercises. What did we need? It's again part of the Ministry's jurisdiction which, here in the bill of law, does not stand. They're trying similarly with the Ministry of Science and Research, the part where we're now joining Article 14, Article 15, of course, we tie two ministries; we simply, dig up -- we transfer jurisdiction. That's the point of the amendment, to make it clearer for the citizens. We've put two ministries together in one. But how integrated was it in the bill of this law in which, apparently, it was copied from last year? Nothing in particular, there is nothing new about it, there are no relevant responsibilities provided for by the Law on Scientific Action and the Law on Higher Education. They exist in these laws really, if a man were to look at very liberal possibilities for something to move away from under direct control and will. However, we see that this is not really possible. Whenever there's an incident at school... I tried that at the beginning of some undercompetent sociological analysis, because I'm not a sociologist by profession, to explain, but it's about some pseudoiberal freedoms, something we haven't been seeking in the concept of creating our national arrangement since 2000, so let's say, but some pathological liberalisation of relationships has led to when something happens, the school's director comes forward and immediately calls the minister. Do you know the distance from the director to the minister? The minister will now resign because a child has committed a violation. Let's see the chain of responsibility. To protect himself, or perhaps democratisation the whole story, they created a whole series of working bodies to help. Highly paid functions, 105 people who make different advices; they are there, they have their jobs, their salaries, etc. They're politically elected, of course, that's where you won't find a radical. Thus, political agreements were chosen, two years, four years in different councils. Educational Council - 29 members, Council for Professional Education - 20, Council for perfecting, harmonising attitudes... Two tips do something, three, 20 people, come and get their attitudes straight. It's amazing, but that's where you get a good salary. What's the final outcome, we don't know. Seven different commissions, a subcommittee, God asks you what's not in the ministry's structure. You have a specific situation in life, a school event, a director, a student, a minister, and between who did what, what he didn't do, you don't know. Tips for higher education, 16 national councils for higher education, 17 for scientific research, academics, professors, respected people on this or that basis, but they don't bring adequate strategies, adequate programs. You can't find a development strategy, we still can't find... We are waiting for a strategy of development and scientific and higher education. If there are such strategies, then what is happening in Serbia is not normal. So here's the exact data: the college accreditation commission takes 450 thousand, and the University of 900,000 to accredit it; it repeats it every four years, it can be again if someone asks. So then for the study programs - 180,000. So how many study programs does it all add up so it's been approved that it's passed, so it says, you've been through it; 60 plus 25,000, per program. That's why kids have to pay tuition. Because he gives him from Belgrade, from the central, from the ministry, because the competent minister of education did not choose to take enough from Minister Dinkic's budget of the social product for health, education and science, but is all on some margins. There are political influences where they will be given, to whom and how much. Then, to survive, and to receive such wages... Look out, the regular professor's salary is about 50,000 dinars. Those who listen, the Elektrotechnical Microsoft pays a group of students 400,000 euros a month, have a group where Microsoft pays them. What kind of college is this where some other company comes in and goes to human school? How much do they have on architecture? How many who have weights on the economy, etc., that this accreditation committee has failed to contain? Many are past, there is indeed much that will be the obligation of a more pedantic and dedicated person to be a minister. There's a very large number of abnormalities that haven't been solved by showing someone who's sitting in some EU offices and saying, yes, these guys are worth it, they've passed the law, we're moving on. If there has to be such a consolidation of forces as it has been arranged, and we still find it strange, illogical and unprincipled, try you from the "yellow company", more democratic and less communist, give your coalition partners that resolution, their sense of social justice is probably more pronounced and more persistent. They actually had that category, that feature of their political action, and that was never questioned, I guess not now. And then slowly on the European path, even them up, go together and be accepted into the same organizations. Tadic, as the Supreme Pharaoh, ends these affairs for you. We don't mind it, let it end, but give someone socially responsible this resort when you share. That's our advice, we can't interfere with your resources, it's not even polite, but it's a recommendation, not to abolize what's done, but to try to choose less than two evils. If it stays the way it stands, it won't be a good solution either. Let's try to give it to someone we believe will have a more pronounced social justice component, not to talk about it, but to feel it next year, say, in the enrollment period, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u918	The word has been made by MP Arsen Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u919	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 226 - People's MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly. On the basis of the agreement of the heads of parliament's clubs, the president and deputy chairman of the Assembly's committees were divided, so that the Committee on Trade and Tourism contributed to the representatives of the opposition parliamentary groups, and on the basis of the agreement between representatives of opposition parliamentary groups, the post of chairman of the Committee on Trade and Tourism belonged to the DSS-NS parliamentary group. A constitutional session of the committee was held during yesterday and a representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group was elected as chairman, so I ask the National Assembly president to hold a meeting with the heads of parliament clubs and to resolve the problem. It is necessary to schedule a new session of the congregation committee and to remove that injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u920	Thank you, the president of the National Assembly will be transferred. Is there anyone else answering for the amendment to the title above article 14 and Article 14? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Ljubenović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I have submitted the amendment that Article 14(1) states that "the research in the field of nuclear energy" is deleted because the energy development strategy does not provide for nuclear energy plants, which are complex and which need to be given more attention and scientific work. I don't think we're technologically mature enough to deal with this, and in particular we're not able to solve the nuclear waste issue that is a planetary problem because only two countries in the world, Finland and Sweden, have a methodology for safe disposal of waste. It must be known that the construction of a nuclear plant is very expensive, four to five billion euros is one power plant, and Serbia has the potential to build thermal power plants, hydropower plants, use of new energy sources and increase energy efficiency. It is obvious that in order to meet our energy needs, we need to plan to layer the development of energy potentials. First of all, a national energy efficiency programme should be implemented at all levels, exploiting existing and developing acceptable potentials in coal energy, hydroresures as soon as possible, respecting international national environmental conservation frameworks. A programme for the establishment of energy technologies should be set up, based on gas and nuclear reactors. In the field of nuclear energy, economic, technical and social preconditions for its implementation should be established and access to some consortium in a world that develops third and fourth generation nuclear reactors. Serbia is having problems at the moment because it does not have enough electricity. At this point, I think it is necessary to build new power plants, thermal power plants and hydropower plants. New energy sources need to be built. So in the next 30-40 years, we won't be needing nukes. However, in the period after that, we will again face a lack of electricity, and in this situation, the state of the moratorium for the construction of nukes would be pointless, especially as nuclear energy becomes the only alternative in many countries around the world. In our country, there is still a controversy whether such a facility is needed or not. I believe that Serbia should prepare for this, primarily in terms of the preparation of personnel not to start building a nuclear power plant tomorrow, but to give scientists in Vinci time to explore, to continue to work on science in this profession and to improve technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u922	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment to the title above Articles 15 and 15 was submitted by MP Milovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 15. Proposal for a law on ministries. The basis for SRS MPs' revolt in connection with this proposal for a law on ministries submitted by the future assembly majority, which has proved to be such in previous work, is that the current majority in the Serbian Parliament proposes more ministries than in the previous assembly, and the reason is that the appetites of a large number of people in the 19 parties in the new assembly majority should be satisfied. The amendment that I submitted to Article 15 provides for an erasure of Article 15. For what? Of course we are not against the Ministry of Education, of course we need this area to be regulated by the relevant laws and to be provided for by the Ministry of Education, but we are against increasing the number of ministries. That is why we have proposed this amendment to bring together two ministries, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. As an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, it was my pleasure to explain the justified reasons for submitting this amendment after the brilliant presentation of Professor Dr Mileta Poscurica, the SRS MP, who had just given you a number of reasons to join these two ministries into one ministry. In the light of the proposal for this law, the Members cited certain reasons to justify the submission of this proposal. Among other things, they said the adoption of this law is particularly important for the functioning of the Republic of Serbia. As an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I believe that you, or whoever directed you, are motivated to submit this bill to the parties who will act or make up the future assembly majority, in order to make them work better. Why do I say that? First, because I think so, and you're telling me to think so in the second part of this sentence, where you say "what is not feasible when the 2007 Ministry Act is still in force". Why? Is it a different solution? Is it different what specific ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia should do? No, there were fewer ministries in the previous meeting, and this bill provided for a number of ministries to meet a large number of parties and individuals in those parties to reach the appropriate places and functions in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, in your reasons, you stated that the adoption of an emergency ministry law will speed up the work to protect human and minority rights. You listed this as one of the reasons why the law was passed by an emergency procedure. You have also stated that there is a need for the special ministry of human and minority rights, in order to immediately submit and withdraw an amendment that does not provide for a special ministry of minority and human rights. Of course, it's absurd and I'm particularly surprised that you've even submitted such an amendment that does not foresee the existence of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and that you've provided for this ministry to be joined by the Ministry of Justice. Of course, there are other reasons that we in the SRS state and which we explain the need for these two ministries that you proposed in the bill to be joined together. Furthermore, in the light of the law, you say financial resources will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Economists have calculated that these funds, due to an increase in the number of ministries, are about 700m euros higher than the previous government, which is, you must admit, a big difference. That money, as your new SPS coalition partners would say, should be directed to satisfy social justice - for public spending, for education, for health care, for pension funds, for equating differences, not for equality, but for social justice, for those categories of people who are unfortunately more and more and who do not have the basic means of naked survival. Of course, we in the Serbian Radical Party have foreseen this amendment, as I said, that this ministry is called the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. I would not specifically quote the provisions of Articles 15 and 14, where the powers, obligations of one and other ministries are stated, I will only tell you MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the public, that there is reason to join these two ministries, not only because they regulate a similar or approximately similar area, but also because of the great costs you would save during the next term of office while you are in power. The personnel necessary for science and technological development are precisely derived from basic, through secondary and higher education, and it is necessary to monitor this through normative action of the relevant laws. That is another reason why we propose that these two ministries join together into one ministry. That is because, once again, there is an exceptional connection between these two areas and the work cycle of these two ministries. This would be functional and rational and would lead to our education system being united and united in one continent in terms of state administration and jurisdiction and care for the management of these two areas, which would direct the relevant people, primarily ministers, future ministers, and, of course, future Prime Minister to look at all needs and reasons for better functioning of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. Of course, to a significant extent, the costs of the state administration would be reduced, because according to this proposal, we will have the administration in both ministries, and if these two ministries were united, then these costs for the functioning of the state administration would be halved by the state administration, which is not so little. I've already said, economists have calculated that by increasing the number of ministries, to satisfy the appetites of certain people from your coalition parties of the future government... You also predicted a number of Deputy Prime Ministers, and unfortunately, you violated the Constitution when you mentioned the Deputy Prime Minister in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, which is against the constitution. You have stated that there is the first vice president, which is also against the constitution; the vice president is foreseen by the Constitution, which is not disputed, and is determined by the government itself, but by the second vice president or the fifth, which I know how many you will predict, it is counter-constitutional, as you have counter-constitutionally provided by that law that there is a Deputy Prime Minister in the government. If you vote this law amending and supplementing the Government Act, you will violate the Constitution. Unfortunately, it's not the first time, you do it permanently, it's just important that you satisfy your ambitions, your political will and, of course, a lot of the privileges and privileges that some of the people of the future congregation have been working on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u924	Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, in front of the SRS Parliament Club, I have tabled an amendment to Article 17. The objective of this amendment is, in essence, to specify and explain some irregularities in the draft law. This Article 17 refers to the Ministry of Health, and it is logical that I, as a doctor, refer this amendment. Today is July 4th, and I could even start this exposure by congratulating Independence Day to the American people, but American authorities don't allow my country to enjoy independence either, and that's a sad reality. It's the Fourth of July, and from the League, our patients phone us at the MP's club that they can't get their meds because there's no prescriptions because of some bars that haven't been printed yet the second day. July 4th, and in Belgrade's largest maternity resorts, Visegrad Street and the People's Front, pregnant women do not have any analgesics. They are born as in the Middle Ages for the second and third months since the lack of "dolantine" drug reportedly reregistered. It's our reality that we face when we talk about health care. The debate on the principle of this ministry law may have shown several things that are interesting and I would have touched at the beginning of my presentation. All of this could best be shown in the lyrics of Jova Jovanovic Dragon, who once said, "The law changes, it is true alive, but it would be better if it were the other way around." That's right, I guess, and with this law, he needs to be changed. Namely, what's changing it? They must satisfy the appetites of a large group of people who are eager to be ministers. We also had rational proposals; it is odd that counterpart Batic withdrew a rational proposal on how to make a cheap government with a small number of ministries, I don't know what the motive would be. In 2004, we had 17 ministries, so in 2007, we had 22 ministries, and now 24. That's what our reality is. The reality of these choices is that we have a recycled DOS, where the leading group, we call them in the jargon "yellow"... Looks like the yellow one's being treated by an SPS transfusion, and their color is red. This is exactly the kind of transfusion that this mastodon has been going on since 2000. We'll see, maybe it will work. Of course, if one sees what the goal of keeping this alive is, in fact, an attempt to establish a totalitarian regime, a puppet government. I wouldn't explain why or how. Now let me move on to Article 17 alone, not to bother you very much. What did we suggest? If you look at Article 17, it's a member of the 21st current law, it's completely overwritten. Since 2002, this article has been rewritten, neither stuck nor drawn, and now someone would think -- what's there to talk about, why radicals are nagging? It's precisely because of the principle that statements and legal standards must be clear and accurate. You see, it's being collected here for more than half of the pages of what falls within the health ministry's jurisdiction, so it's said to participate in the preparation and implementation of international agreements on mandatory social security. We say that this should be added to "in the section relating to health insurance", as it is clear that the ministry is responsible for this. We suggest we make that clear. Furthermore, it is said in the second part that the ministry is concerned about professional training and specialisation of health workers. We add: "and other workers", not just health care. Why? Medicine is a multidisciplinary science today; today you have biologists who work closely with us doctors, you have nuclear physicists; if you will, you have something called health management, where and how the economist can find his place. Therefore, there are programmes in European countries, not to say in other developed countries of the world, where there are specializations that can include other profiles, not just health workers. We are well-intentioned to propose to the legislator not to be stubborn, to be European-wide and to open up the possibility that the Ministry of Health, as it does today, is also authorised by law to make specialisations for other profiles, of course, when it comes to health care. When it comes to our third remark, the bill says that the Ministry of Health is regularly controlling buildings, sanitary supervision at the state border and other matters of a certain law. When it comes to sanitary surveillance, we just say that we need to specify and add: "over cross-border crossings of people, food traffic and general use items". Why would this be necessary? If you say "sanitary surveillance," it's not specific enough. Why do we insist on taxing itself to carry out sanitary surveillance of the cross-border crossing of people, food and items of general use? Because the laws have already tried to take the responsibility of the Ministry of Health right in the control of food at the border, that this responsibility to the veterinary service, which has never been in the country of Serbia before and that we consider it a bad solution, but it is not the place to explain now why it is bad. You see, these are our proposals that we made not to obstruct the work, not to make us smart, but only to complete this legal proposal. A new government is being prepared, thank God, we need to get it as soon as possible, but as far as health care is concerned, one would say, "Nothing new in the west, we'll have a new old minister, and that's reality." I will not talk about the situation when it comes to the health of the population in Serbia; it is not good, it is not satisfactory. Why? The main problem is that the biological integrity of the nation is at risk; 30,000 citizens disappear from the country's land every year, 30,000 people die more than they are born. We're biologically disappearing. Not to go into analysis is not a place and an opportunity to do so, but to a large extent, we don't have a good preventive service to prevent the main cause of our dying, which is chronic non-infectious diseases, headed by cardiovascular diseases and cancer. I'm not going to get into that story right now, it's not an opportunity, you might as well be chairing me to stick to the agenda. This is, practically, it is. I just want to finish with a few more words. We in the Serbian Radical Party didn't remember. When someone praises me, then I think he's joking, and if he's giving me some criticism, I always wonder if that's exactly what I'm trying to find out where he's right. We respect everyone's opinion. So I was on one party's website, I don't know if it's opposition, whether it's a position, she's a Camelotian when it comes to supporting the future government, it's about LDP; there's a blog of that party, a certain citizen, Petar Lukovic, has given a longer article, very interesting, which I thought might be very useful. I don't hear them using it, though they pointed it out on their website. I'd only give one quote. Why? He's very instructive, because we often resent that we are facing the past and we should look to the future. Our future is Monday, our new government. Here's a quote that's very interesting, maybe it's also warning. Of course, it concerns the Ministry of Health, which is why I'm reading. I'm not going off topic. Don't think I'm lost. "Every government where Mladjan Dinkic and Tomica Milosavljevic, and there has been no government in the last seven years where they have not been, has a major problem with these two grain reptiles who are able to co-operate with Djindjic, little with Zivkovic, to their eggs with Kostunica, and today with Tadic and Dacic. Cool, no problem, with everyone G17, a mob organism that, like in those viral science fiction novels, moved into every body of an unhappy patient who believed Mladjan Dinkic had only one apartment and some euro change in the bank. Faced with a metaphysical problem, either they will remain in power or they will be stuck in prison, there is no environment, Dinkic and his servant Milosavljević were easily swallowed by Dacic, Mrkonjic, Obradovic, Minister of Education Petar Skundric... "then there goes a verb that I wouldn't quote, I'd just say the first letter, "j... Dinkić holds ski resorts, forests, telecommunications, banks, health care, we can list by tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or next year." That's what I'd end up with. You see, we don't party, we want to affirm the opinion of others, especially if we could agree with them. That's how I finish my exposure. If there is a minimum of goodwill, I suggest you still adopt what we propose with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u926	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. According to the Rules of Procedure? By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u927	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I am not only reporting for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I have a custom of commenting on some amendments. I think Mr. Pai Momchilov's amendment should be accepted. I think he really gives a very precise addition to what's written under the health ministry's jurisdiction. This is the first thing this amendment applies to, and that is to add the words "in the section relating to health insurance". I think it's very important, because it's the health ministry's jurisdiction. The second part of this amendment concerns specialisation and other workers. I think Mr. Momchilov explained it very nicely. The healthcare system is a complex system and within the health system there are other workers, there are health associates. Why prevent these people from going to a certain kind of specialization and getting even more knowledge and education? I think we're pushing them out of the health system without it. The problem of the health system, which the previous and future minister has not solved, is that about one third of the health system is burdened with non-medical workers. One who is seriously involved in healthcare at the Clinical Centre of Serbia will find, if he looks at the structure of the employees, that there are vaars, meadows, archaeologists, ethnologists. So there's nothing there. That's what burdens the health system. The third part of this amendment refers to sanitary surveillance. I think the health system, or the Ministry of Health, must take over this role of controlling the transfer of people and goods across borders. This cannot be done by the Ministry of Agriculture; it is one proposal which seems to me cannot produce good results without the active involvement of the Ministry of Health. There's one more thing I want to say to this occasion. If I didn't know that in the 21st century, on the way to the EU, there are no vaccines in Serbia, I would think that I am dreaming; if I didn't know that in the 21st century, on the way to the EU, in a dozen cities in Serbia when a citizen opens a tap out of that tap, something that isn't for human use, I'd think I was dreaming. I believe so, and I am fully convinced that there is a deed to the Ministry of Health. It is likely that in the sixth and seventh terms of Mr Milosavljevic in Serbia, there will be enough vaccines; in the eighth or ninth term of Mr Milosavljevic will be healthy drinking water in Serbia, and probably in the 10th and 12th term of Mr Milosavljevic, we will have full insight into the transparent spending of money from the health system. The question we have been asking Mr. Milosavljevic for years is – why is there no body at the level of the Republic that should be essentially leading a health policy? Why is there no report in front of this house on the state of health of the population of the Republic of Serbia? Why aren't there any chambers or chambers in this form or that shape? Why are there criminal charges against the president of a professional chamber? Why didn't Mr. Minister pay attention to all these memos and health committee reactions? In doing so, I must remind this assembly that the chairman of that committee was a member of his party. It regularly intervened, and this written material was delivered by the Society of the Doctors of Vojvodina, and there was no answer. Finally, given this debate of a few days and some of the things that were happening here, when all the stories and reactions of the position are summed up, it can be reduced to three words: unconstitutional, irresponsible and arrogant. Why unconstitutional? The government law. Why irresponsible? Because amendments written by the position and opposition appear; the opposition's amendment is not read, move away, the amendment of the position is accepted. In doing so, the opposition amendment was handed over a little earlier. Bahato. Why the blasphemy? Because they are called the Legislative Committee to which opposition MPs are present and when they will not give the quorum, they are asked for a game, so they say there is no quorum. When MPs of the opposition who are members of that committee tend to finish other tasks, the committee is convened quickly and the opposition members are selectively informed. Well said Mr. Momchilov, there is an ambivalent party here, but their board members have been informed, and members of the DSS, NS and SRS have not been informed. That's why there's haughtiness. What's the point of this behavior? The aim of this behaviour is that the government practically does not exist, that one weak government, a government formed by another, will absolutely be subject to one man - the president of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u928	I thank Mr Dimitrievich. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Vukovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18 concerning the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society. We suggest that in the title above Articles 18 and 18, in the name of the Ministry, words are deleted - and the information society. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, following the work and selection of ministries, we all understand what this is all about. In particular, in this case, we propose that the information society be kicked out of this ministry because there is no need to set up a special ministry and because the work in the field of building an information society can be done within the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. So we've got two contradictory things here: there's something going on somewhere, and there's a bunch of things going on. On the other hand, the future Dinkic Ministry of Economy and Regional Development covers economic and economic development, regional development, improving economic relations with abroad, strategy and policy on tourism development, employment in the country and abroad, etc. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest you support this amendment in the voting day and get the information society kicked out of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u930	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Arsenović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u931	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues, I also partially explained in yesterday's debate this amendment by proposing that social security and the protection of military insurance workers from the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection become the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. I would not repeat what I said yesterday, just to point out that I have informed you of a number of problems of military pensioners who have experienced such a solution: from violations of laws and regulations, non-compliance with regulations, to unresolved status issues, and, if you remember, the problems of those 65 military pensioners who have not been receiving pensions for more than a year because they are citizens of Serbia and are retired in Montenegro. What concerns me a little is that the Justice and Administration Committee, which is why I have actually reported, has almost unanimously suggested that this amendment is not adopted, is the only member of the SAA, which leads to the conclusion that either I was not clear enough or they did not engage in a real problem, so they suggested that this amendment should not be accepted. I want to point out again that this condition, where a certain category of people, better put in place by military insurance, puts two ministries in charge, contrary to Article. 190th and 191st. The law of the army, and this results in many problems. I understand the desire to get some things settled by uniting the pension system, but before that, there must be assumptions based on which one system will move into another but so that it will be a regulated system. This looks like a chaotic state or a desire to create a problem and not get rid of it. That is why I urge the Members of Parliament to accept this amendment of mine. I seek the interpretation of the Committee on Justice and Administration, if everything remains as it is (otherwise, just to point out that this provision on the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has entered into the previous adoption of the Ministry Act), who is indeed in charge of military insurance in the future. I must also express my dissatisfaction with this ministry law. I have to admit, I feel like there's a lot missing from this ministry law, especially with regard to its arrangements. Complication of jurisdiction... I worked in a system where exactly who was in charge and never allowed tasks and jobs to be doubled and transferred to the authority of multiple organs. When allowed then you get to the chaotic system. I don't think any of these amendments we've proposed these days, just so everyone can accept, are going to improve this significantly. I'm going to say one stupid thing today, even though they say there are no stupid questions, there are stupid answers. I think it was much smarter to pass this law without any amendments and to task the authorities to regulate this law so that it really works, to be valid for at least ten years and to have jurisdiction, functions and tasks placed where they by nature things should stand. I have a feeling that some ministries have reported for some duties, responsibilities, etc. to strengthen your reputation, but I don't think that's the point. The government must, in my opinion, be unique, unique to act, as one organ, not "every lice lice". Only one orderly system can produce results and then the people will be satisfied. Even though we know that we cannot quickly create conditions for quality life, if it is seen that shifts are made, that it is designed, the people will be much more satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u932	Thank you. According to the amendment, there's a Mrs. Milica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u933	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was pleased to hear what my predecessor had said. Seeing as he's going to sit on this side of the political majority sitting on, the parliamentary majority, I am now very interested in hearing an explanation of what this is all about. The gentleman made very interesting suggestions and presented a series of really good and constructive ideas; he explained to us that he was able to make a law that would be valid for ten years. I think it's our country's interest that the laws don't apply from government to government but are really worth ten years. That is why I do not fully understand whether this part of the parliamentary majority, or the ruling majority, took part in the creation of the bill, whether it is consulted, because the law has so many shortcomings. Because it's obvious that the opposition has invested this number of amendments precisely because he has so many shortcomings. It is of interest to us that this law is worth 10 and 50 years, it is only normal that the laws apply for many years. This was also about the fact that the laws of the 12th and 13th centuries apply in England. Why don't we do the same thing? That's why I need an explanation of what's going on here. What makes the political majority, or parliamentary majority, speak this way? And it is clear to him, obviously, that this law is not right and that it is made in another way, and that man offers the same concept to make the law for a long time. It's simple, these attitudes that the gentleman has spoken are attitudes that the opposition has been speaking for some time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u934	Thank you. The word is Mr. Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u935	Dear lady or miss, I wish you wouldn't make me think the way a group thinks. I have the right to my own opinion, and that's how I'm going to behave in the future. I will not resort to some situations because of solving certain problems, and I will not be braked by the fact that this congregation solves what it is set up for. Let me feel free to think like a man. I don't have much experience, I'm here for the first time, and don't make me fall into any schemes and systems.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u936	Thank you. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u937	It is very unusual, the gentleman represents the part of the MPs who have signed the bill, and is now excluding their opinion. Does this mean that the bill was not signed by 122 men, or did it sign 121 and the one who took his opinion? I was very precise, I commended the way you think. I think it is, when you know something's wrong, like this is bad, you go out and say, "That's bad and I know better." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u938	Mr. Zeljko Tomic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u939	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I would agree with my predecessor, Ms. Milica Vojić-Markovic; by art. 146 and 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it would be interesting to hear from the legislator what he has to say about Mr Konstantin Arsenovic's move. I would like one of the promoters to go out for a pay phone and comment on everything the MP Arsenovic said. It would be at least politically correct to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u940	Thank you. Mr Delic has a word, but first Željko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u941	I'll be very brief. I just want to explain a few things. The amendment that Mr Arsenovic submitted was the fact that the Military Act, which your government proposed last year, so this is not a criticism that applies only to this law, but also to some previous laws, in which you actively participated. When we warned you that the solutions in that law were not good, you did not accept it because we were opposition. This is a later mind today, which has no meaning at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u942	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Milica, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u943	Please, today we are not discussing the law passed by the government of Vojislav Kostunica, but the proposal for a government law that you, 122 MPs, or 121, have submitted if the gentleman has taken his opinion. So you can only submit an amendment to this bill; you can't apply to some that were passed 30 years, a year, five months, etc. So you were fixing the proposal you signed. You weren't fixing anything else. That's logic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u944	Thank you. Mr. Delic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u945	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that Mr Arsenovic submitted today to article 19 is in line with his amendment to Article 4. What Mr Arsenovic suggested today is absolutely in line with what he said yesterday. Yesterday, I said that what Mr Arsenovic suggested was the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party when the Law on Defence and the Law on the Army were passed at the end of last year. That opinion wasn't adopted then. Today, we had a situation that most of us who think they form the government taps Mr. Arsenovic on his proposal for an amendment. Yes, we agree with that, but then vote when Mr. Arsenovic's proposals under article 4 and paragraph 19 are put in place in the voting day. So you would certainly correct one great injustice against military pensioners and in some way influence the Law on Defence, or the Law on the Army, to correct the injustice that was done by passing those laws according to this category of person. We, like this right-hand party, as the Serbian Radical Party, view this proposal as almost ours, but you who are groping today should allow your vote to allow these proposals to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u946	Thank you. Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u947	Madam President, I will use our fellow citizens' bond to congratulate you on your day today. As for Mr. Arsenovic and his amendment, Mr. Arsenovic, you're absolutely right. As I look at you and my colleague Vasiljevic, the SPS, the PUPS, there is also Mr. Pera Petrovic of Unity Serbia, the SRS, the DSS-NS, who will be changed the law at least by accepting this amendment. She asked a colleague here, purely logically, how you signed some bill that contains these provisions that are diametrically contrary to your claims, which we fully support. But I realized that as a man, a fighter, an enthusiast, you wanted to still... You've been pressed, wanted by the coalition, wanted by the government, etc., you're just an individual, you want to fight for your rights. If that is how you fight in this government that is being composed, both you and Mr. Krkobic, it will not be a long century, because they will not meet what you ask of them at all, because they are the diametrically opposite attitudes. Similar attitudes as regards military pensioners, their protection and even military insurance, you have only on this side, if we talk about sides, or places in congregation benches where we sit. When these system laws were passed, first of all the Military Act, where we asked to strictly regulate the rights of military insurance, we encountered such antagonism, the refusal of the Minister of Sutanovec, who, unfortunately, the officers of honor and soldiers, would be back in office. However, Mr. Arsenovic, all this can change. So step by step, since you've already decided, it's your right, but it's an unnatural, completely unnatural coalition, to get into one arrangement to help those voters you promised, so let's make that pressure bigger and bigger. Don't let it happen that in the voting day you're not in the hall, not personally, but that you personally don't make sure there's not enough votes. Mr. Arsenovicu, we have a bitter experience from the past. In March 1996, although the Socialist Party of Serbia then supported the minority government of DSS and G17, these "yellows" were then in opposition, to correct what the DOS did after October 5th when, by the vote of the Labour Act, Borislav Novakovic from Thessaloniki, many workers' rights were abolished, at one point, when Slobodan Lalovic came with a proposal to amend and supplement the law, the assembly majority, as well as Mr Vasiljevic, were created, we were able to return the right to the regression, to paid overtime, etc. I remember, it was March of the month, it hasn't been a month and a half, they're... Imagine how powerful it was for one minister, one man who couldn't stand to be voted by the assembly majority, so after a month and a half, he came with an amendment to the law to demand that all amendments be annulled and what the opposition had then been, and some who had helped, had achieved these amendments. I believe, if you're ready, now to add everything together, you'll see that there are quite enough MPs to vote on this and that amendment that we talked about yesterday, then you will personally come out of this situation as a winner. Then you'll tell them -- you can't do that, gentlemen, if you do that on the first step, we're leaving the government. Go out and say it in principle after the pay phone, not be their promotional coin, because then it won't be forgiven by pensioners or military pensioners or bonds. You know, there's a lot in Kragujevac, it's one of the largest associations, military homeless. You know what the worst part is? I've talked to these people many times; I think I've only talked to them three times this year, and back a few years, who knows how many times. We've been looking at this master plan and the property map of what the Yugoslav Army has, destroyed by the DOS, how we can solve this burning issue. Comes a man, imagine, who's been retired for so many years and has no roof over his head, and other high-ranking officers. Then what are we talking about? You know very well what the status of those who are military insurance, those who work in civil service, but belong to the military. Here, to talk about VMA employees, you also have acquaintances and friends there. Well, given the circumstances, I know one of the best experts, it doesn't matter which area. A man is 40 years old and has 12 surgeries a day, so he works like a machine belt, and that's on a very sensitive organ, on a human body, you know, they're very specific to these operations. He's got a major's rank and his salary is 52,000. What fate awaits him tomorrow, if he drowns in this bill, and all others who are military insurance? So we must also think about those who are now extremely endangered. Here, you have soldiers, people who have defended the country, who have returned, thank God, alive and healthy in their country of Serbia and have no possibility at all. It wasn't Serbs from Western Serbian countries who had to flee from the Ustasha knife, so they came here, but went from here to fight alongside their brothers in the western Serbian countries. Through education and military engagement, through the honorable service of the state and the people, as General Delic did, they acquired... And in the end, they have no elemental conditions for life. Therefore, we fully support you, Mr. Arsenovic. And be assured that you are on the right path; only militaryly harsh, uncompromisingly, that they know who they are dealing with and that they cannot pass laws that will harm the state and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u948	Thank you. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. The draft representative and the Committee on Justice did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The draft representative and the Committee on Justice did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u949	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when you want to evaluate a nation, it is best to look at how it refers to its history. I'm sure our people wouldn't get a high grade at that grade. If we go deeper into history and if there shouldn't be politics in those situations, there's a consensus... With this amendment, we would like to say that politics must not be in events from the end of the 20th century, because we are asking that, apart from the mention of Serbia's Liberation Wars, the monuments of the country's wars and NATO aggression be included. So we're looking for this ministry to take care of all the monuments of those who have given their lives since the 1990s, and ultimately with NATO aggression. I don't know, gentlemen on the left, why you're so sensitive and why you don't have a drink to the victims of NATO aggression. Yesterday you could see the American ambassador, which is embarrassing, what respect of the state, what an anthem it is and how there is no flag of this state, but ultimately, it is your relationship with these victims. I want to remind you that there is a common monument here in Belgrade for all victims of NATO aggression at the mouth. It's 2000 after October 5... Yet it is the handwriting of some followers of you who are on the left side, they have completely devastated that monument, the installations for that "eternal fire", the letters are torn up, the monument is completely devastated. Associations of fighters have made demands to bring the monument to order the president of the municipality of Novi Belgrade, whose territory the monument is on, as well as the city of Belgrade, but this has not been done. True, this year, because of some events at the mouth, the monument was painted, at least five meters high, where there were various graphites, but gentlemen, it is a disgrace to this city and to all of us. We should put that monument in such a state that there is a "eternal flame" there on March 24th or 9th, however, they can take the crowns and take Mr. American ambassador and all the others who come to that place so that they too bow down to the shadows of those victims. There's no politics in that, gentlemen. Because, as other nations take care of our monuments in Tunisia, Romania, Greece, so must we ensure that our victims, even from the latest wars... It's not little Milica's fault, it's not those kids in Blue either, it's not the people who were on trains, buses, it's not the Shyptari from the columns on the way to Djakovica - Prizren and in the village of Korišta" that they were bombed by NATO. We soldiers, who have died defending our country, or police officers, have been obliged by the nature of our work to defend our country and perhaps your relationship to us for some ideological reasons may be different, but the relationship to the militia, to the civilians in Nis, to the Aleksinac, gentlemen, must not be... There's no politics, there's no ideology. That's where we first need to make peace, that our relationship with the victims is the same, that we all have absolutely the same pitet, and to the victims from 1918, 1804 and 1941, but also 1991 and 1999. I'd like to say immediately on the subject of the previous amendment, Mr Vasiljevic wouldn't answer because he said he spoke yesterday, when it was said "veterans"... That's exactly what you want, you want to get closer to Europe. We're talking about veterans in Europe right now. There is also their attitude, and there is thinking in this country that we no longer share in fighters, we no longer have fighters from Liberation Wars 1914 and 1918, but we have two associations: we have fighters of the People's Liberation War, but we have fighters of the country, or Draža Mihajlovic fighters, we have fighters from 1991, we have fighters of all wars until 1999. They're all veterans. It would be good to suggest Mr Vasiljevic - to integrate all associations into this veterinary association, because those in the West do not want to hear the notion of a fighter, there is only the concept of a veteran. You don't want to adopt something proposed by a man who belongs to your majority, and we who are on the other side, who are always waiting for the knife when we suggest something, say that man has suggested something that's quite right and that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u950	Here you go. National MP Momir Markovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been visiting several countries in Europe, in an environment. Two years ago, I visited Russia and saw something that should be a role model for Serbia. In Russia, you will find monuments from the time of Tsar Russia. Stalin killed the Imperial family, or Lenin killed the Imperial family, but neither Lenin nor Stalin destroyed the monuments of the time of Tsar Russia related to the struggles of Tsar Russia. Today you have monuments from 1940-1945. The five-pointed stars with a sickle and a hammer didn't bother those who came after them, the "eternal fire" still up on those monuments, reminding generations that for this country where they live, where they work, where they create, school, get born, someone bleeds, dies to preserve their country. Go to the Thamesvar, and you will see that they are their origins from the legionaries of Rome, and how they guard you. In the middle of the Thamesvar you will see a large obelisk on which is a wolf who is breast-feeding Romula and Remus. Of course, and monuments from the war with fascist Germany. It's being nursed, kept, flowers planted around. In our country, especially lately, as the furniture changes, so does the relationship to history, monuments, traditions and everything else that it has and how value. When you came to power in 2000, the first thing you did was take Tito off the square in Uzic, pack him up, and he's standing next to the museum today. You didn't get anything out of it. In the Bulldozer Revolution, you first tried to take off a five-pointer from the City Hall because, God, it reminds you of a period of communism. When the monument was erected that was spoken of by General Delic and when the "live fire" was lit, it lasted until you came to power. The first thing you did was desecrate that monument and its similar monuments. Let me remind you, at the time of 2000, there was a world or world event organized by JAZAS and I don't know who else. Smartmen who are on the monument were found – when coming from Zemun it is on the left, the monument was erected in honor of a conference, but it is a monument of Belgrade and the mark of Belgrade – drew a huge condom, I guess in the fight for protection, etc. If it had happened in one of these countries, it would have been "stuck" in long-term prison, because it's mocking the city where it lives, mocking the monument and the event or the victims, if there were victims. Someone has found it appropriate to defile this monument to the city of Belgrade. Of course, it's been without any consequences, but it's your relationship, gentlemen "yellow," according to history. The history of the "buldozer revolution" does not begin, neither does Serbia nor Serbia's "buldozer revolution". Long before you lived here, created, worked and were much greater Democrats than you. Miss Marina Ragus only asks that in this part after the word "freedom wars of Serbia" the words "original wars and NATO aggression" are added that finally this country has an address, that it has the name and name of whoever is responsible for keeping, protects, protects, that it takes care of monuments that are mainly marked by someone's deaths for this country. So far, there's not a single legal project on this. Of course, by instinct, because you created the congregation majority, so you can, this amendment is certainly without reading. Let me see which expert signed this... Of course, Bosko Ristic. He says, "proposes the National Assembly to reject the following amendments... "and besides everyone else and the amendment submitted by the MP Marina Ragush. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who, after this, remains concerned about both those cemeterys outside and those army cemeteries in the country? So I suggest that in the voting day you press the green button, that we adopt this amendment and thus put all our monumental complexes under the protection of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u952	Mr. Momchilov picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u953	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting only to support the reasons for you to adopt this amendment. It says here that the ministry's jurisdiction includes the protection of monuments and the monuments of Serbia's Liberation Wars, military cemeterys and cemetery fighters. Please, wars can be cruelly divided into conquering, liberating and defensive. You're making a difference between defensive and liberating. You don't say that. We are drawing your attention with this amendment and asking you to just add: "the country wars and NATO aggressions". Why are we particularly emphasising NATO aggression? For the simple reason that this is one of the most shameful aggressions, which was carried out by 19 of the world's most developed nations against a sovereign state, we will not enter whether it was based on legal grounds or not, where the cause was a humanitarian disaster in Kosovo, and bridges and all factories in Vojvodina and all Serbia were pounded. Let's get rid of it. Please, this is now addressed to those who have a special system of values that one society's cultural and civilizational level is mostly valued by two things: the first relationship to the dead is the first relationship to the weak and the powerless. Please, in the ethical system, the highest value belongs to the sacrifice of someone else, and the greatest sacrifice is to lay life on the altar of the country. Someone's gonna tell us again that we were doing fake patriots. Please, why are we patriots? If you don't have a country, then you're a horde, then you're not a people. If you don't have your own language, and the Skits are gone, and they're gone, if you don't have your own land that you're working on and where you live all the time, then you're not a people. So, it's a shame you dropped this lightly. Either you haven't read or there's another thing, that you're really against your people and that you don't appreciate the greatest sacrifices that can be laid all over the world, even in this country. Please do something and improve this. This is not an honor for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u954	Thank you. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order not to report specifically to the Rules of Procedure, before I explain the amendment, I must present some of my impressions that I might otherwise be able to speak on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Namely, my colleague Petar Jojic and I had some work today in a special court for a lot of things. I was on the third floor where the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes was stationed. Well, to say the least, that's where I came back shocked, 'cause they're left and right... It is one long hallway, so the offices are on one side and on the other side, and along the walls of that long corridor, I couldn't believe the eyes, there are at least ten large, beautifully framed photographs; for example, on one of Karla del Ponte and Boris Tadic, on one Vukcevic, Tadic, Karla, Vekarić, and then again Vukcevic, Karla, Vekarić, and then again Vukcevic, Karla, Boris Tadic. So it's amazing that these are photographs that are supposed to be adorn the walls of the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes! When that prosecution was formed and the special department of the district war crimes court was formed, and so on. organized crime said those "specials" (so I call those judges who sold themselves for three times as much pay as those given to their colleagues in the Belgrade District Court) were dedicated there and that they were there to carry out government functions. So I'm not surprised that the other day Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero said that the judiciary was a mess because the government was not formed (the parliament was not yet established); she said, there is no Parliament, there is no government, the judiciary is a mess. I understand she had a problem with not having a government, so there's no one to issue a warrant to the judiciary. I thought maybe he didn't think so, but when I saw those photos today on the walls of the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes, then it really became quite clear to me what it was all about. I'm just wondering what Carla del Ponte's new book is going to write about these friends of hers at the time. You remember what she said about her 2000 friend, Zoran Djindjic - in the book "Lov" she wrote that he asked her to take Seselj to The Hague and not bring him back from there. These days, a daily newspaper has published transcripts of the Lugan talks since 14 August 2000, so before October 5th, when Carla del Ponte agreed with Zoran Djindjic first to arrest Slobodan Milosevic, then Seselj, and then said – it is not easy with the Socialists. "With the Socialists, it'll be easy," Djindjic said, "we'll break them somehow, but radicals are dangerous." Then Carla del Ponte said yes, but with Seselj we will have a problem, because we have no evidence against him, your lawyers will have to make a little effort to write the indictment, so that in this direction the indictment is written. So, I'm saying all of this for the sake of Serbian citizens, for the sake of the public, because when citizens walk through the Ustasha Street, like my colleague Jojic and I did today, but we've been going into that building, so when they see those weapons-to-war specials, they probably think - something very important is happening here for the state and doing this when they're guarding this building. When what, what are they doing? They keep pictures of Boris Broz and Carla del Ponte on the walls of the Special Prosecutor's Office. Of course, I was surprised that Vuk Draskovic was not there, since in an interview two or three years ago, Carla del Ponte said she had an honest friend in Serbia and that her friend Vuk Draskovic. In fact, I'm not saying this because I'm extorting myself, because what a man can do to explore himself in a country where, for example, the chairman of the Management Board of Politics, a list of 150-year-olds, with tradition, Sonja Licht was elected. Here, I propose to the future government of the Republic of Serbia, if it will continue this way, let's say for the chairman of the RTS Management Board, Natasu Kandic, Sonja Biserko, to round up this activity of NGOs in the government. So far, NGOs in the government have been acting out of the shadows, trying to cover it up, however, there is obviously no need to hide anymore, no shame or shame. Boris Broz introduces a dictatorship through NGOs, through his people in government, so that, Serbian citizens, God help us all with this government they plan to form. Article 19 concerns the competences of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I have proposed, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, an amendment which provides for how it should be regulated in the position of the 2nd member of the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It's about those powers for which even when the Labour Act was passed we couldn't find any justification. Then we talked about how it was possible for labour and social policy competences to be in the jurisdiction of the Youth Ministry of Economy. No sound logic, no legal logic, no common sense to merge, I don't think there's that on the globe anywhere but the state of Serbia. What part of social policy, or employment policy, did Junior take into this ministry? This is: employment in the country and abroad; sending unemployed citizens to work abroad; monitoring the state and movement in the country and abroad; recording in the field of employment; improving and encouraging employment; strategy, programme and measures of active and passive employment policies etc. What was going on here with this bill? Indeed, since I said that there is no logical, legal, or sound rationale for such a thing, the only thing we could do to link it is the fact that Mladjan Dinkic and the unemployed citizens of Serbia, through some of their foreign exposures, take some money, some commission. The white-world NGOs are probably giving some means of employment in Serbia, but it cannot pass past Mladjan Dinkic. She told Natasa Jovanovic yesterday about an amendment to Article 9 which refers precisely to eradicating what is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy from the Youth Ministry (and the former and future). Indeed, the real question is whether someone in this country will rightly deal with employment policy, social policy. As for what Mr. Rasim Ljajic and his ministry have done so far, I don't think anyone in Serbia can say that he is satisfied with that. All we could see in a year was a few television videos from Mr Ljajic's ministry. When a worker dies, he falls off the board and gets killed because he doesn't have a helmet, then Rasim puts on a helmet and walks through the construction site, takes pictures of him, and says, "From this day on, everyone has to walk around with a tie, a suit, a helmet, and take pictures of them, follow the cameras." And who will feed their families, that Mr. Ljajic has no answer. Obviously, there will be no answer to that, no future government, no future ministry. You know, when you pass a law like this, I'm talking to a part of this future coalition, which in the election campaign and now in the talks about forming a government, he's sworn he's going to advocate a socially responsible government, an increase in wages, an increase in employment, etc. - and when a minister of labour and social affairs makes complete sense to ask why there are millions of unemployed in Serbia, why they are not employed, why no new jobs are being opened, he will say - I don't know, that my ministry is not working. Then, for example, a journalist who deals with investigative journalism will take this law and will not think of having jurisdiction in the Ministry of Youth, read the responsibilities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and will see that there really is no competent authority in the state of Serbia dealing with these basic human, everyday problems. We all know very well, the citizens of Serbia know how many problems there are in the field of labour and social policy. We also know why these tragedies happen when people work without the necessary equipment and without Rasim's helmet on their heads. Because people have to feed their families. To be clear, we don't represent the view that we should work on black, that people should do so, that people should not be provided at their workplace, on the contrary, but behind that must be the state. If you fire a man who's 25 years old... For example, he worked in some local self-government. With the younger cut there too, local self-governments had to reduce the number of employees by 10 or how many percent, and on behalf of that, the ministries multiplied to meet the needs of all coalition partners and those of the government, and those of the previous, and those of the future, meaning, from 2000 to today. In ministries after each government, there are 100-300 new employees per ministry, and then it has to be fucked on some other budget users. What's this guy who's a graduate lawyer, say, 25-26 years old and has two kids who go to school, gets fired, has no way of getting a job? He must be doing hard physical work on the scale and cannot ask his employer to provide him with a helmet because you, gentlemen, have the Labour Act that you have brought for employers in time and not for workers. And that's what we warned you about, but you didn't listen to us. Of course, the state should also respect employers as its taxpayers, as people who should contribute to the development of the state, but we are in such an economically and socially difficult state, this state of Serbia, that workers, i.e. unemployed and pensioners, as the most vulnerable categories of people in Serbia, and most importantly, must be in the first place. Why am I saying that someone can't even ask the employer to report it or get him a helmet? He can't, because he'll tell him -- if you will, you will, if you won't, thank you and goodbye, I have a law that has been passed by the Serbian Parliament, which says that even though I fired an employee by law, even though the court returns him to work, I don't have to return him, I'm obliged to give him three months' wages and not return him to work. Which of the employers won't do it? They'll do anything. If you fail to draw attention to the law, or by law you do not commit employers, even if that employer is also a state through its competent authorities, then do not expect that someone will do harm. So if we want to help really improve social policy, employment policy, the field of work, then you have to adopt this amendment and know whose jurisdiction this concern is. Because, really, Junior by the ski resort, next to the Fiat, in addition to various contracts, successful, failed, Bora, taking a commission, and then returning because he still doesn't get through the job... You know, it's a very difficult math, and don't burden a man with taking care of work and social policy. He can't, he can't. He has no will. Gentlemen, if you swear to this socially responsible government do not accept this amendment and other amendments to the SRS, I am now ordering the citizens of Serbia -- you will not have a socially responsible government, you are once again deceived, you will have a government that will take care of employers, those with a lot of money and few employees, who will take care of Junior Dinkic and his publics, of course the rest of the cycle of dictator Boris Broz. But we will talk about them individually when we talk about the government's proposal, i.e. the prime minister and members of the government. Now when we talk about the ministry law, please, fellow MPs, because of those citizens who brought us to this House, and for all of us, no matter what foreigners, they voted for both the employees and the unemployed, and those who got fired and those who believe they'll get a job after that cancellation, and they won't, so because of all these citizens, we're obliged to at least take care of them here and so I suggest you adopt this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u956	Thank you. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u957	Ladies and gentlemen, I must finally admit that my name is Alexandra Jankovic. I am neither Alexander Jankovic nor Aleksandra Joksimovic, who has been a spokesman for this "yellow" party. Let me get back to the amendment. The amendment proposes to be in Article 20. Paragraph 1 of the draft law shall be deleted. What's the explanation for this amendment? The proposed amendment provides for the erasure of Article 1 Article 20. The draft law since this position refers to spatial planning, urbanism, construction, construction land, infrastructure and municipal work, inspection supervision in the area of urbanism, etc. and in the opinion of the applicant for amendments, this area must be governed by Article 11. The bill, which regulates the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Why is it wrong, unnecessary and pointless to separate from the Ministry of Infrastructure areas of spatial planning, urbanism and construction? The answer is simple if it comes from the basic function of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is to manage the development of all infrastructure systems, which, especially in today's times, are the preconditions and backbones of urban and spatial development of all other, technological, economic, social and environmental systems in general. The management of infrastructure systems includes all phases and procedures, models, methods and management techniques that include planning of spatial and urban development, design of infrastructure systems and infrastructure building, as well as monitoring, maintenance and control of functional infrastructure systems. Under the current Law on Planning and Construction, all this is done through areas of action defined in the Law as specific sectors, which are spatial planning, urban planning and construction. The implementation of these three areas, the operation sector of the Ministry of Infrastructure, is to take away the basic instruments of managing the development of infrastructure systems, meaning that: 1) the development of spatial infrastructure corridor plans in the second ministry, 2) the creation of urban and regulatory infrastructure plans will be directed and controlled again in the second ministry, in the urban planning sector, and 3) the design of infrastructure systems control and implement in the second ministry. This time it's the construction and infrastructure sector. In all, the Ministry of Infrastructure will only focus on monitoring and directing the functioning of existing infrastructure systems, while it will completely lose any impact on their future development. All above is a basic and inevitable precondition for the activation of all financial resources, budgetary, credit, banking and international funds, because without spatial and urban plans and infrastructure systems projects, there are neither conditions nor opportunities to launch their funding cycle. There is one more open question, and is this separation leading to the separation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and competences over public enterprises such as the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", the Water Directorate, the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Republic Spatial Planning Agency?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u958	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u959	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my colleague has said everything about this amendment. It is clear that you wanted to find an opportunity to satisfy your appetites. Clearly, one ministry that worked very well over the past four years has been broken. It's the best way to judge citizens. It's totally unacceptable for all of these reasons that my colleague listed. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you've made one prototype government, a prototype ministry. Let me remind you that the prototype is, for example, a prototype. One vehicle that first shows up on a field. For the first time in Serbia, such an illogical, vague, completely ideologically unacceptable coalition is being made. The behaviour of the prototype vehicle, i.e. those ministries and these governments, will be judged by Serbian citizens. Don't forget that every prototype has to be cleared. The prototype permit is usually six months, three months, depending on the law. It is certain that the citizens of Serbia will soon condemn what you are doing. I'm sure he'll have that in mind the next time there's an election. To satisfy your political appetites, you managed to break a ministry that worked so well. Of course, there will be a lot of problems, but the problems are yours. With this amendment, we want to point out once again that what you're doing is not a good idea. I think this amendment is absolutely fine and this proposal that has been made through the amendment is fully acceptable. There is no single reason, except to satisfy political appetites, for this ministry to be broken into several ministries. I think you'll still have what's written in mind when you vote, and you'll support this amendment. Of course, it is better for us as an opposition that you make mistakes, but so that we do not make mistakes when it comes to Serbian citizens, however, I call on you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u960	Thank you. Mrs. Jankovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u961	I have already noted that I am not a lawyer, just a psychologist, so I have to add some results of my psychological analysis or at least analysis of the psychological motives of the one who has so arrogantly and unsustainably dictated the proposal of the ministry law, which Mr Milos Aligrudić rightly described as stupid, short and unconstitutional, which is better than being stupid, long and unconstitutional. The findings are quite interesting. A person in the role of Serbia's president in forming the last government had a dot on the top minister from the previous government, Velimir Ilic. That is why, with an abundance of emotional blackmail, and since he was unable to lift his ministry, he made an important effort to at least rename the ministry. So it's not the Ministry of Capital Investment, it's the Ministry of Infrastructure. No one can be more capital in Serbia than Boris. Since Tadic is now prime minister in shadow, he must demonstrate exactly the Ministry of Infrastructure, because Velimir Ilic has set him up and routed the path to his successor, so he does not have to invent hot water, but is enough to work according to guidelines that are really excellently set. It's like from a joke about a fly and a monkey, when they're sent to space. I'm sorry, it's not national, it can be American and monkey. So they go into space and the American calls the station on Earth and asks what I'm supposed to do here. He says nothing, just feed the monkeys and don't touch anything. So the ministry was appointed, to far exceed Mr Ilic's ministry and to set guidelines for future generations of ministers far ahead. But as the successor of Minister Ilic does not come from an unprofessional and some political puppet, but from the experienced builder Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, the matter becomes even more dramatic, so it is no longer known whether this is Tadic's slap Veli by deciding to degrade all the efforts he has made in the development of this ministry, or whether it is a slap to Mr. Mrkonjic, who is being told that he will be the minister of infrastructure without portfolios. Since it really is necessary for someone to stop the violent and Nazi ambitions of the "yellow" legislator, we have submitted this amendment and we expect all reasonable people from this left coalition to accept it. It is not always the personal interest of two ambassadors and three tycoons to be above the interests of the people, and in the interest of the people it is not that it has a government to serve the interests of America. By the way, the good news is that we from the opposition prevented Tadic from providing today's gift to Manter a new government in Serbia on an American scale. The bad news is that he will see the same government official or on the day the Serb hit a Serb, and perhaps on July 13th, on the day of Montenegro's independence. What's he gonna do? The man's in the soul of a Black man. I guess that's why Zoran Lutovac is still sitting in Podgorica as Serbia's ambassador to Montenegro. It's not funny, ma'am, it's very tragic. For your information, in Podgorica as Serbia's ambassador to Montenegro, Zoran Lutovac is still sitting, a man who is a smaller Serbian ambassador to Montenegro, and more members of the DS's main board and is going to join representatives of the DPS, although Montenegro's foreign minister is in "News" saying Montenegro will recognise Kosovo's independence. Interesting. If it were luck, if Tadic were Montenegro's president, maybe Serbia would finally get national responsible authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u962	Mr. Dragan Jovanovic answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u963	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues have already talked about the need to accept Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic's amendment and that the Ministry of Infrastructure in the new government of Serbia has those powers that the Ministry of Infrastructure has in this still current and outgoing government. Why is this necessary? It takes a lot of reasons. I will only give three comparisons to point out that according to the new proposal for a law on the ministries of the current Ministry of Infrastructure, which we hear Mr. Mrkonjic will have for one third less power than the Ministry of Transport and Communications led by Mrs. Raseta in the government of Zoran Djindjic. Gentlemen, in this assembly, loans of 320m euros are waiting for ratification only for Serbia's travel infrastructure. How, tomorrow, will the Ministry of Infrastructure, led by Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, manage to implement these funds if you take away your ministry law from him that under his supervision he has planned and technical documentation? That would be the same, here is my colleague Mr. Stevanović, as if in the municipalities and cities of the municipal administration they would exempt us from the urbanist department. Gentlemen, we've had these examples. Turns out it's not good if jurisdiction gets mixed up. If we have to make highways tomorrow, train corridors, and if we want to have efficiency, then why does this seem? If the DS gentlemen had any personal objections to the work of this minister or that minister, you don't have to kill the entire ministry. It's not the point of whether or not someone's name is going to be minister of one or the other or the third ministry. The point is that one ministry, and especially the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is very important to every citizen of Serbia, regardless of what part of Serbia lives in, must have insiders. That is why I call on fellow MPs from the coalition gathered around the SPS – gentlemen, support this amendment. This amendment is vitally needed that tomorrow, the Ministry of Infrastructure can realise projects for which the conditions were created by the ministry run by Velimir Ilic. Support this amendment in the voting day, because it will really contribute to making the Ministry of Infrastructure work much better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u964	Mr Mojsilović Radoslav answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u965	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this proposal for a law on ministries makes it clear that when writing this law was not managed by the interests of the citizens of the state and society, the idea of leadership was solely to satisfy the appetites of political parties that make up the ruling majority, as well as to satisfy the interests of influential individuals from these political parties. We are witnessing that these appetites have been growing enormously in the last few days, and the question arises whether this, this imagined, nakaradan government will be formed in the first place. Issuing the Ministry of Infrastructure's competence is illogical, but, as Serbian Radical Party colleagues spoke in the previous period, you had a fight with logic a long time ago. It's perfectly normal for you. I hope that this amendment, which Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic submitted on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, will be adopted because Velimir Ilic, in the previous period, has so well formed this ministry that he can also be led by a 10-year-old child in the future. Finally, I will end up metaphorically, the Ministry of Infrastructure is turning into a top-of-the-line vehicle without steering -- the inability to manage, without wheels -- the inability to develop, and without fuel -- the inability to reach financial means, or grow into a body that will stand in place or, rather, in an empty shell.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u966	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. (The Belief of Radet, from the scene: You did not ask if there was anyone else on the 20th.) Srdjan Spasojevic. () After the previous amendment? Excuse me, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of the unification of the contents of certain ministries from the last term in this session is clear. So those ministries that are known in advance to be run by DS, which have the largest sources of income, are placed in part in the work of that ministry where a certain minister is already recognizable. In order to illustrate this fact to you, I would like to list only two segments that are biting between one and the other ministries, which is why this amendment is actually written, which is to bring together the Ministry of Infrastructure and the current Ministry of Spatial Planning. First, in order for spatial planning to be called the ministry, there must be a descriptive work. It's not described here. The spatial planning is one continent of urbanism that defines where and for what purposes the building land will be predisposed. In order for construction or construction land to be realised or built in order to obtain a valid permit, it must pass the planning documentation or spatial planning. This section lists a lot of things that have nothing to do with spatial planning. For the sake of the citizens, I have to quote certain parts of this text. It is said: "The Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning does the tasks of the state administration relating to: spatial planning and urbanism; setting up conditions for building buildings", which has nothing to do with spatial planning, "adjustment of housing relations and housing; construction; building land; municipal infrastructure and municipal work... ". This is also contradictory with what you wrote in the third or fourth row in the paragraph on the Ministry of Infrastructure, which says that "The Ministry of Infrastructure is doing the tasks of the state administration in the area", and now lists - rail, road, etc., and we come to a system of traffic, then, assumes bond relations, inspection supervision, other than air traffic inspection, traffic development strategy, development plans and issue of the applicable traffic facility and infrastructure permits. If this is the Ministry of Infrastructure issuing a valid permit and the Ministry of Spatial Planning has not found the facility, who will be complained to by the Ministry of Infrastructure if it has the jurisdiction of bond and property relations? Moreover, on page 4, it says, when it comes to the Ministry of Justice, who is in charge of bond relations. Who will be complained to by any institution that creates the facility and does not enter the planning or planning for an illegal facility? How will housing or housing issues be resolved if the area is divided into, say, a plan of detailed regulation in one way and a general urban plan in another way? We are all witnessing that the construction mafia that is harassing Serbia is right in the hands of the Democratic Party and that the apartment whose construction costs 500 - 600 euros can be sold at a price of 1,500 to 2,000 euros per square. What is the essence of this is that the source of the Democratic Party's income, and this future minister, is exactly the building. The spatial planning has nothing to do with the construction. It's the building that brings the money. You yourself know that spatial continents are sometimes made to fit into those objects that some tycoon from DS has already made and then it's said that it fits into a spatial continent, the land has been brought in for purposes, it can be approved legalization. We had these examples both in Belgrade and Serbia. That is why Serbian citizens should know that this is a ministry that was cut off from the Ministry of Infrastructure only because of a source of revenue for future times, with the minister already known in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u968	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that within the framework of this amendment and in general of the proposal for new ministries, we will have to find or give jurisdiction to the existing ministries for the particular problems we face. There's obviously a problem here when it comes to this "yellow company"... It's a good thing Mr Oliver Dulic's coming to hear what's going on. Either we do it or you register for trade and other stuff, or we ask you to get out of the political party register, because you can't deal with trade and politics at the same time. Either you deceive Serbian citizens, or you deceive your own membership. I have already stated once how you abuse your position, especially when it comes to elections. The question is how manym euros did the Democratic Party invest in the purchase of life supplies it packed in packages and shared with Serbia's most vulnerable citizens. Why do you use lies? If you want to deal with this honorable humanitarian call, why aren't you doing it? Why are you cheating? When we came to the data that one of the tow truckers... Mr. Dulic, you should listen to this, this on the board of directors would be an interesting question to ask, to really see how long and how. We'll ask for changes and additions to the law when it comes to this. How can you send goods... The record was made up of the Ministry of the Interior, the Police Directorate and the Zrenjanin Police Administration, the report was made up by senior police inspector Vladimir Vasic, the official ID, no lies, no fraud, nothing like you, he says - we send to the Gerontological Centre 4.154 packages. What hospital has so many patients in it? Do you have any cheeks? What does this look like? As you sent 8,000 packages to Nis for distrophysants, and we found that there are 500 and some disabled persons in Nisa County. Value - 1.874.483,36 dinars. What I must commend, the police carried out a review on that occasion, he says, no cases of crime were found, nor were any of the items whose conduct was forbidden. In some times, if they had asked for it, they would have found both the forbidden funds. In that respect, you've improved something. This is absolutely illegal. You cheat, you steal choices. This way you steal elections, cheat on Serbian citizens, cheat on other participants in the election. How is it possible that with the help of the package you are trying to get the votes of Serbian citizens? What does that look like? Aren't you able and able to in a fair political game... Is it? Why are you using these means? How many million euros did you spend to buy the votes of Serbian citizens you brought into this position? Don't turn your eyes. Do you know how many hungry citizens are able to sell their vote because of this one package worth five euros? Why should we believe you're only on food packages? How much information is there that you give to voters in the election? Don't pretend like you're crazy or naive. You know very well. Another question arises – have you submitted a report to the Committee on Finance on spent campaign funds? We'll check it out. We've been looking for all the official data for one of the speedboats we've been able to track down. Don't make a deal now. You'll get a chance when the session's over. You ask that question on the board of directors, to see if you have reported these funds and how you have reached these funds. It says here: the buyer - the circuit board of the Democratic Party for Vojvodina. This is just a piece for Vojvodina. And then you brag about the results. How can you not be ashamed? In the mouse hole you need to hide. You mention someone in the future to steal elections or anything, shame on you. You should be banned from political work because of what you're doing. To know that this time will definitely end, that you will have to go to elections like all other political parties, not to abuse money from tycoons or those you otherwise won to provide yourself with some excess votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u970	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about the amendment I submitted to Article 20, I must make my own personal impression regarding the presentation of Parliamentarian Arsenovic, if I am not mistaken, from the PUPS. I really respect Mr Arsenovic's years, and I do not think that I question his right as a MP to submit an amendment to any member of the Bill on the Ministry, but I do not understand that someone who signs the Bill on Ministrys as a representative of the Proposer after a few days comes out to the Serbian Parliament and says, in an angry tone, that his amendment is not accepted, that it is unfavourable for those to whom the amendment applies, etc. Well, Mr Arsenovic, you signed the Bill of Ministers and I can only draw one logical conclusion from today's presentation, as well as all those who are following today's session of the Serbian Parliament, which is that you actually signed this without knowing what you're signing, that you didn't know what the rights of the proposal for a law on ministries were. Here, and Mrs. Verica Radeta came to the same conclusion that I came to. You seem to be in such a hurry to form a government as soon as possible, that you have your own representatives in that government. Someone else wrote a bill on ministries, I can guarantee it, it was given to you on signature, and now that you've just started reading the draft law on ministries, you've seen that it's not exactly in line with your ideology and your understanding of the rights of pensioners, military insurance companies, etc. I don't think there's any reason for the PUPS gentlemen to be angry because the Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted Mr Arsenovic's amendment. These are their coalition partners, these are the people who are going to make a socially responsible government with them and improve the position, among other things, of pensioners. So, Mr. Arsenovic and you PUPS gentlemen, there's no reason to be angry, it's your coalition partners and I'm convinced that they want you, your party and the people you represent all the best. As for the amendment that I have submitted to Article 20, I ask that in Article 2 after the words "providing material and other conditions for the implementation of these programmes" be added to the words "special wastewater and municipal waste processing programme". The problem of wastewater in the Republic of Serbia is evident. It's a big problem, and it's going to get bigger and bigger from day to day. It is a principled and ideological view of the Serbian Radical Party that special attention must be paid to wastewater processing within the ministry dealing with this issue. Water today is a resource as important as oil. Futurologists predict that water in the future, healthy drinking water, will be less and less, that even regional and local wars will increasingly be fought not because of oil, not because of gold, but because of water. We in the Republic of Serbia, thank God, still have enough quality drinking water, but it is also a fact that these water resources are shrinking, among other things, because of the increase in wastewater that goes into the water streams. It is really necessary to pay particular attention to the implementation of the wastewater and municipal waste processing programme within the Ministry of Environment Protection and to provide the necessary resources to ensure the implementation of these wastewater processing programmes. Also, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20, Article 3, to delete the words "The Environmental Protection Agency, as an authority of the administration, as part of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning". Since 2001, the Serbian Radical Party has indicated that in the Republic of Serbia year by year, from day to day the growing number of some phantom organisations you have called is probably modelled by related US institutions, agencies. The lawyers had a lot of problems with giving some kind of legal definition of what the agencies were. If we analyze our legal regulations, we can conclude that there were three types of agencies: some agencies did business in accordance with the Public Service Act; some agencies did business as so-called. Special or administrative organizations and some were, imagine, just public agencies. You, if I'm not mistaken, passed the Public Agency Act in 2005 and then you said it was a public agency. It's a logical and legal nakaradic definition, and now you have one category of agencies that you can't define differently, but simply say -- these are agencies within the meaning of the Law on Public Agencys. No one living knows what these agencies are doing, what good it is for the citizens of Serbia from those agencies, but, fortunately for you, these agencies have. You've employed your party staff in those agencies, spent your budgets. They didn't give any results to that agency, but here you have managed to satisfy a number of your party comrades, or functioners. If this proposal were to be adopted by the Ministry Act, we would have received a fourth category of agencies, and this time it is an agency as an agency within the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. So there would be four types of agencies in the Republic of Serbia. Just to remind you, last year when you passed the Ministry Act, imagine, that was "a long time ago" in 2007, you also provided for the Environment Protection Agency within one ministry. But, as a result of the technical failure, whether because of the ignorance, you defined this agency as an organ within the Ministry, if I'm not mistaken, science and environmental protection. So, you've failed to say what kind of organ; there's only an organ left. The people who were supposed to apply the Ministry Act were in trouble to define what the agency really meant, what its legal nature was, and what category of state authorities that agency belonged to, because you simply said to it that the body, whether it was the authority of the administration, or whether it was the executive body, the judicial authority, the technical authority, was nothing, simply - an organ. That's how it stayed until today. You're proposing now, because you've probably realized that it wasn't so good, that this environmental protection agency should be the authority of the administration within the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. Now I ask you why you need the parallelism of institutions at the same state, legal and political level? Is there anywhere in the world an example that at the level of one state, a ministry called that and so on, and that within that same ministry, you educate an agency that has an identical name? In Article 20, you predicted that there was a Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, and in point 3 is the Agency for the Protection of the Environment. Indeed, despite my best wishes, I couldn't figure out what a fundamental difference that was between the Ministry of Environment and the environmental protection agency. That you wrote the bill in haste, that you wrote it unprofessionally, that you wrote it driven by desire that the sooner you sat in ministerial chairs that you so dearly liked, the obvious example: you even forgot about the terminology, on the obligation that a normative act must also be compliant. You called the Ministry of Environment, and Mr Tomislav Nikolic told you yesterday that the name was not good from a purely language aspect, and only a few views later you called the agency - the Environment Protection Agency. Why didn't you call it the Ministry, but it's the Ministry of Environment, which is a completely pointless name, and your agency is to protect the environment? By reading the authority of this agency, I could not understand what motives the legislator of this law has driven to educate, in addition to the Ministry of Environment, the environmental protection agency, when one and the other institutions are practically doing the same work, i.e. doing the work of the state administration in the same area of social life that should be called environmental protection. I don't think the current minister of state and local self-government, and we know he's a great lawyer, that's what he proved... If you were to ask him now how many agencies there are in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, what the agencies are doing, I doubt he could give you a proper and accurate answer. This environmental agency that you are predicting is obviously not going to serve anything else but to re-employ your party comrades in that agency and spend your budgets. In the proposal for a law on ministries in the context of the reasoning, you foresaw chapter four, which reads as follows: "The financial resources necessary for the implementation of the law". One would think that you would elaborate from which sources you would provide funds for the implementation of this law, when that only one sentence, indeed brilliant, I will read it: "The financial resources needed to enforce the law will be provided in the Budget of the Republic of Serbia". The budget of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic and the economists of the Serbian Radical Party, and I hope you know that you do, but be quiet, I suppose you are ashamed to suggest such a thing, is a very complex category, has a whole range of budget revenues, budget positions, items etc. If I am not mistaken, Ms Tabakovic will correct me if I am wrong, and I do not think I am wrong, the Law on the Budgetary System contains the obligation of the legislator, regardless of who it is, whether it is the Government, whether the MPs, whether the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are, if you foresee expenditure from the budget, and apparently the enormous budget expenditure is necessary for the implementation of this law, you must specify exactly which sources the budget funds for expenditures that arise from the implementation of this law will be provided. Not a single sentence about it. You have written only one miserable sentence that means nothing – that you will provide financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In that, imagine, you wrote the word "buppet" in a capital letter. I have no doubt that you will provide the budget. Here, and Mr. Todorovic has shown excellently how you provide funds from the Republic's budget, from the province's budget, from the municipality's budget and from your tycoons, etc. So, I have no doubt that all those you're going to hire in all these great agencies, all these great ministries, will receive the salaries, the appointments, that you'll send them on official trips, that you'll rent cars at least I don't know how many thousands of euros, etc. One logical question is raised - is this in line with the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what real benefit will they see from this environmental protection agency and from all your agencies, and does it have limits in your completely irrational budget spending? I'm sorry I didn't bring that paper, but there's going to be a chance to show you what a comparative-legal experience they have in funding the state administration. Believe me, the 2000 experiences have been devastating for the Republic of Serbia. You have managed to bury several countries: the SRJ, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Thanks to your policy, our country is getting smaller and smaller, but that's why the state administration is booming, year after year there's an increasing number of agencies, ministries, special organizations, civil servants, etc. Indeed someone will ask how you write bill proposals, how you spend budget funds, and someone will really have to set a limit for you in all this. Of course, it is not difficult for you to conclude that the border will be set for you by the SRS and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but in the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u972	Before I give my word to the Rules of Procedure, let me remind the members of the Committee on Gender Equality that the constitutional session is at 1400 hours at the Blue Salon. Highlighting the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u973	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure and Article 226: "The MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly" and not to list any further. I'm sorry that Mr. Dulic just left, because I took advantage of the moment when he was here to ask a question, that is, to ask an answer to something that was launched by the SRS and the DSS MPs. According to an agreement on who will chair which assembly committee, the post of chairman of the Trade and Tourism Committee belongs to the opposition. The opposition agreed that it belonged to the Democratic Party of Serbia. The participant in these talks was Mr. Dulic, and it was important for me to now that all the actors here are getting information about what was going on, because after the establishment that place belonged to the party's representative G17. I know the current minister, Mr. Dinkic, loves ski resorts, swimming areas and everything else, and I agree with Mr. Todorovic's conclusion that he loves money, but I see that the same resort stayed with him and I see that both ski resorts and swimming grounds remain in his jurisdiction. I also know he likes tourism, because I know he's up the old mountain... As someone who deals with environmental and environmental protection, I have received information from organisations that protect the environment that Mr Dinkic and his associates have made a rhumb on the Old Mountain and that he has endangered many plant and animal species up there, that he has built on places that are shaking places and that should not be where it is being built, so I see that this place now belongs to those who deal with tourism in this way. I would simply like the DSS-NS parliamentary group to receive information on who belongs to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u974	The question has already been asked in the morning section and the answer is that it will be passed on to the president, so you will receive information during today's day. National MP Milan Avramović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of Article 225. I would like to inform myself of what the Environmental Protection Agency has done so far and ask certain questions so that I can fit into this amendment, since I haven't had enough time for it. First, I would like to remind myself that I was a member of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection in the previous term and that many of the questions I asked could not be answered, which is no wonder because the chairman of the committee was from LDP, Cedomir Jovanovic. That's why I'm taking this opportunity to get some answers based on Article 225. So, in 2003, the late Prime Minister Djindjic donated fresh nuclear-rich fuel, and no written trail is known for the present. I will remind you, since I am from Belgrade to talk specifically about this biggest problem in Belgrade, that there is a nuclear reactor in the Vinca Institute that has not worked for 15 years, that this freshly enriched fuel has been prepared in swimming pools beside the reactor itself. In 2003, that fuel disappeared in an unknown direction. Since we don't know where it is, I'm taking the opportunity to ask which way that fuel went, since it's worth between 100 and 200 million dollars, because it has no market value and can't be bought, and let's say the Germans next to Munich have the same reactor as the one we use on heavy water, and that they'd be happy to pay for that fuel pretty much. Another thing, since it is the Environmental Protection Agency, which certainly shouldn't exist because nothing works, there is a nuclear waste dump in the Vinca Institute itself. Today we had the opportunity to read in the media that about a month ago, in fact, 15 days before the pre-election silence, a Hungarian firm organised the transport of radiological needles from the Oncological Institute in Novi Sad to the Vinca Institute, in the most secret. I have to tell you that was organised by Mrs. Urania Cosmidis-Luburic of G17 Plus. She, in co-operation with this Hungarian firm, organized a transmission of this radiological waste with Mr. Istvan Bikita. The waste is located at the Vincha Institute, on the very edge of the city. That waste isn't protected today. And the radioactive waste from NATO bombings brought from southern Serbia is located in a barrel, which leaks, in the Vinca Institute itself. I'm asking the Environmental Protection Agency what did she do to protect the capital of a country? If he's unable to protect the capital, how would he protect the environment in a smaller urban environment? Is he still gonna... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u976	I ask the service to stenogram what MP Milan Avramovic said, and by Article 225, forward to the Environment Agency. Article 225 is used, as usual, quite broadly. I ask the MP not to throw it out of the bench, since it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and the advice is always welcome, especially if he's smart. (Dragan Todorovic: This one is the smartest. The apostle still throws and enters the zone to be warned that a warning can be given. So, members of 225 and 226, according to a good custom established last year, are used to obtain words of injury to the Rules of Procedure, with no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. And, in order for there to be no confusion in the stenogram, as can be confusion in the stenogram as words are given to MPs who are not registered in the hall, please enter the stenogram that MP Milan Avramovic was seen in the hall, that he spoke at the pay phone, and the text of his questions to be forwarded to the Environment Agency. National MP Dragan Todorovic, despite the warning, throws it away and is really ahead of the condition... People's MPs who earn from the bench will be warned, says about the same place where we interpret receiving words by article 225 and Article 226. I'm setting a break by 15.05. We will continue to work on the amendment submitted to Article 20 by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The word, in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, was sought by Jovan Palalic. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon debate on details. At the beginning of the afternoon work, I would like to inform you that we will continue the work after 18 hours until the end of this agenda. In the afternoon, the debate stalled on an amendment submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to article 20. A Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has taken advantage of its time. National MP Jovan Palalic appeared pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u978	Dear Chairman, I point out the violation of Article 226. "The MP has the right to ask for a notice and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. "I would like to point out again that several times during the afternoon debate, we pointed out that the agreement on the division of management of committees as working bodies of the National Assembly was roughly violated. I am specifically talking about the agreement that the president of the Committee on Trade and Tourism should be given representatives of the opposition. We, here, kept insisting until 15 hours that someone would give us that explanation. It is impossible for them to be called together at the outset in this way to break agreements. I think good practice has been established in the previous period that the representative positions are at the head of individual committees. Our representatives, representatives of the opposition, and the Democratic Party of Serbia -- the New Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party -- came to a constitutional session in the belief that the chairman of the Committee would be from the DSS, so that at the Committee's session itself, the representatives of the majority would vote for the chairman of the G17 Plus Committee of Representatives. I ask that this topic be completed and that someone come out and that the notice which caused the breach of this agreement that was established here in the National Assembly on the division of jurisdiction i.e. the management of the committees of the National Assembly. We've had a problem for a few days as far as the board's functioning and work is concerned. If this is a problem in the National Assembly at the beginning of this call for committees to not function or break agreements, then it is necessary to convene a meeting with the president of the National Assembly with the heads of Parliament and to discuss the subject. We will not step down from this until we get an answer, as soon as possible, why the agreement on the chairmanship of the Trade and Tourism Committee has been violated. Given that the constitution of the board is under way and that it is very slow, such agreements may happen in the coming days and that opposition representatives may be denied the rights to which they belong by the number of mandates in the National Assembly. Madam Chairman, I ask you to give a notice as soon as possible, and the representatives of our parliamentary group will continue to report to the Rules of Procedure until we get an explanation of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u979	This is the third highlight of the request for an explanation. I said the message was transmitted to the president of the National Assembly. Since it is a political agreement rather than business matter, it remains to exercise its right and to agree on what it was, what it was and what a political agreement should be. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u980	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 85, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly speak of the days and hours of work of the National Assembly and reads: "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly may decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work even after 1800 hours, if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the President declares to the MPs. "We are working today, although, in fact, it's a day off Friday. Mrs. Comic, you just said the work goes on after 1800 hours. So, both are indisputable according to the Rules of Procedure, but there is a lack of what we didn't hear yesterday or today, and that is - if there are legitimate reasons for that, which the president is telling the MPs. You are now in the role of the chairman, you are currently changing the president of the National Assembly, and you are obliged to announce to the national MPs and the public of Serbia what are the particularly justified reasons for us to do after 1800 hours. Today, the amendments are on the agenda, i.e. the debate on the details of the ministry law. The debate is going very correctly, MPs are coming forward, talking about the proposed amendments, talking about amendments from fellow Members from other parliamentary groups. So everything is perfectly normal and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we don't see any valid reason to work on Friday after 6:00 p.m. There may be some reason, but you are, as I said, under the obligation to declare that reason to the MPs. Otherwise, since you, Mrs. Comic, are known as a campeic woman, and you have shown that in the afternoon part of this session because you speak from that place past the Rules of Procedure... From there, you can only give the People's Messenger your word, possibly give a warning to the People's Messenger, but you cannot give any warning. This has been remembered since the time you were Vice-President of Mrs. Natasa Micic, when you gave warnings, something that did not exist in the Rules of Procedure and does not exist today. So instead of talking more about what you can do in the Rules of Procedure, please say what you're bound by the Rules of Procedure, which is why we've been doing longer than 1800 hours today. I'm sorry, I spoke 17 seconds more.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u981	We find the justification for working on Fridays and extensions in order to complete the constitution of all authorities after the elections held on 11 May 2008. We understand that not everyone finds that justified, we also consider, acting on the Rules of Procedure, so I have made notice that we will be working after 1800 hours today, and until this agenda is over. The word is made by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u982	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 27. So there was a deal on the committee president's schedule, working bodies. It's obvious you broke that deal. You are violating the Constitution, proposing a government law violates the Rules of Procedure, not informing the opposition's MPs about the maintenance of the board, taking office as president of the working bodies to the representatives of the opposition. You'll probably repeat the 2003 story when you took 45 terms. Where's your end? Does this kind of work in the congregation even make sense? It is necessary to explain to the public why you elected a representative of the G17 plus president of the Committee at the meeting of the Committee? I'll tell you something else. In the previous meeting, the chairman of the Health Committee and the family was a member of the G17 Plus, but never, during the entire past term, the deputy chairman of the Committee was elected, and this place belongs to the opposition. It's typical party behavior G17 plus, to kidnap both seats and mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u983	Article 27 has only one point of view, so I assume you meant to violate Article 27, paragraph 4, which refers to the President of the National Assembly taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is the fourth highlight of the breach of the Rules of Procedure concerning the political agreement of parliamentary groups in the Assembly and for the fourth time I say that the president of the Assembly has been transferred. Such problems are solved at a meeting of parliamentary groups with the president of the National Assembly and it is up to it to use its powers and rights and to schedule such a meeting. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u984	Madam Chairman, you don't understand what I'm asking you. I remind you, when you submitted the amendment, i.e. the representative of the promoter Mr Marko Djurisic, at 10 to 9, and when the authorised representative of the promoter explained to us from 10 to 11 hours the government's position and, among other things, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights waited from 10 to 5.30 for that amendment to appear, we asked you what it was about and we had the same or similar kind of answer. The public in Serbia is clear what this is about. You don't want any cooperation. What exactly do you want? To force your will, so the opposition doesn't wonder about anything and do what you want? We won't let you do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u985	Regardless of what member of the Rules of Procedure you have not pointed out, I would only like to correct the opposition section - if it were not to be asked about anything. To my personal satisfaction, and I hope to the satisfaction of the citizens of Serbia, the opposition has been talking here since the beginning of this session. At least that remark doesn't stand. Is anyone else picking up? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u986	Article 104. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that from these last words, you could clearly see the democracy of this defiant coalition, and secondly, to see what the MPs of the people are waiting for and to prepare themselves (by speaking to the MPs of the SRS and this piece they now call the opposition, which will not have, minority, no rights), to prepare yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, we have a fierce struggle for democracy in Serbia. Democracy and democracy are not the same. Secondly, it's not the same thing that they wrote in their heads, so they evened out their fatherland and their country and sold their country as their homeland, but that's their problem and the problem of the citizens who voted for them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a fierce struggle to show those who think they are carrying out parliamentary life in Serbia what democracy is, what respect and those who are not in the ruling set, because behind each of us is at least 15,000 citizens of Serbia and we are not by name and last name MPs, but we are representatives of those who voted for our political parties. Mrs. Komic, what you have just said, you will be able to do this in your own backyard, in your own house, possibly in your neighbourhood, in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia you will certainly not be able to.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u987	National MP Momir Markovic does not ask for an answer, but regardless, if I do not give the answer, some MP will have the right to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure that the chairman does not respect the Rules of Procedure and does not respond to the MP who pointed out the violation of Rule 104, who says: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. The use of offensive expressions is not permitted, nor is it allowed to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. "I didn't think that by saying that the opposition here has the right and that, to my satisfaction and hope for the satisfaction of the citizens of Serbia, it uses its right to an argument, to freedom of speech, to defend its rights all the days since the beginning of the session... Do you want your statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure to be decided in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta points out the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u988	Mrs. Komic, you have injured Article 96, Article 100, Article 3, Article 104(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, before you were injured by Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, Article 31(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 31, paragraph 2, says the president of the National Assembly, in the event of temporary prevention, replaces one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly he appoints, which he informs all vice-presidents and secretaries of the National Assembly. I have just received information from Vice President Natasa Jovanovic and Bozidar Delic that they have not been informed by Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic who will replace her in her absence. Of course, I am not saying this because it is very important to us that one of the Serbian radicals, the vice-president of the National Assembly, changes Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, but precisely because such a non-business and non-democratic Mrs. Comic sat down as chairman and showed this sentence that the opposition is not asking questions and that it is to her own satisfaction. That is why you, Mrs Comic, are sitting here under some internal agreement with Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, and I warn you of the violation of Article 31(2). Rules of Procedure. In 96, he said, "The President of the National Assembly, when chaired by the National Assembly, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly if he wants to participate in the search. "We don't mind, Mrs. Comic, that you, respecting Article 96. Rules of Procedure, please say that someone else is presidening in the meantime and that you come out here nicely and state the position of the Democratic Party that you said from there, which is that the opposition, to your personal satisfaction, is not asking questions. And you broke that article. You have also violated Article 100(3) which obliges you to provide an explanation following the address of the MP who speaks of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The explanation is not your monologue, it is not the emphasis of your political attitudes, but the explanation of whether, in your opinion, as chairman, the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not. You have injured Article 104 of attitude 1 by making it your opinion from the vice president of the National Assembly that there is no question to your personal satisfaction of the opposition in this House. In this way, you blatantly violated the provision of Article 104 of Law 1 which states that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. So, Mrs. Comic, I understand and we understand that you have... We don't understand, but we see that the Democratic Party is really firm in the decision to introduce a dictatorship in Serbia, we have been talking for days. It is clear to Serbian citizens that the main dictator is Boris Broz. When I said it today, I got one message, they say -- don't say it's not Boris worth Broza, but say Boris Brozic, it's a little bit more like him; it's a Broza attempt. (President: Four minutes and 15 seconds. ) Mrs. Comić, are you sure I've timed out, since I've quoted four members of the Rules of Procedure? If it is, I respect it, and if you're not, then I'd like to ask you nicely, if you'd like to show your campery somewhere else, you can speak from this place... Obviously you don't know what that means, you who react, but take a dictionary of foreign words and read it, it'll be clear to you. As you will all understand that the opposition in Serbia and how to ask, that and how to explain to Serbian citizens how the government works in Serbia, we are just waiting for that dictatorial government, so you will hear what we have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u989	The emphasis on replacing is not because it is only a session where I am an equal member as well as Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic, as well as Vice-President Nikola Novakovic, which you had the opportunity to see, because we all held sessions during certain periods when the president had a second commitment in the Assembly building. I don't participate in the search, I explain, and it's my business obligation. If the explanations I give don't suit you, you have the right to ask for the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the voting day. It's obviously a deliberate or accidental replacement of what I said, which is fortunately in the stenogram. So, I have expressed my satisfaction that the opposition is participating, almost exclusively representatives of the opposition since the beginning of this session. I said I hope the citizens share the satisfaction of the opposition speaking during this session, offering us his arguments and defending his rights, which we all witnessed together. The time, in four minutes and 15 seconds, one minute and 15 seconds after the time laid down in business to highlight the injury, and that is, one minute and 15 seconds, your right to quote which you must not and cannot count on in three minutes that are business prescribed to say the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to take a vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote? Do you want to vote on this breach of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote? Or do you want to point out a new breach of the Rules of Procedure? A new violation of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u990	Mrs. Komic, I really expected you to use your experience as chairman, which was not positive, but in so long you could learn something. All this talk you said earlier is completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure. I warn you once again that you cannot hold monologues, but only very briefly can you give an answer to the objection, or to the intervention of the MP as regards the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're wrong when you explain how you change, how equal you are, what are you equal... I don't see you speaking that chorusly, nor is it possible that all the vice presidents of the National Assembly speak in a chorus manner, but of course, I didn't expect you to say anything that is in line with the Rules of Procedure. Please don't ever ask me or the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party to ask you anything from there, so that we, as neighbors, would answer from the bench whether or not we were satisfied with your answer. That's why I didn't want to tell you. I have called to tell you that, in accordance with Article 100(4), I am not satisfied with your response and I ask that the Assembly in the voting day declare whether the injuries of the four members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that I have spoken of have been committed. So, you can't ask from there and have an MP from the scene answer you and air-conditioned you whether or not you are. National Assembly sessions are public and only what is said here is also told to the MPs and citizens of Serbia and is recorded stenographically. So, if we're going to chat, we can do it tonight after midnight when the work of today's session is over, and until then try to respect the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u991	National MP Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u992	The Honorable Presidency, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, paragraphs 1 and 2 - dignity. Even in the morning while you were sitting on the left you still had that very pronounced non-verbal communication that in your case speaks more than one thousand words. Indeed, one great demeanor, giving signs of hands, very strong and long cynical smiles, very disdainful. You have continued this now from the chairman's seat and I ask you to ask the President of the Assembly or for you to give yourself a warning, because it's about time. Be a little self-critical.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u993	I would like to answer that the Rules of Procedure of this kind have been introduced, but we hardly have an answer for your remarks. You want me to take on the remarks you cast your vote on the day of the vote? (Sladjan Mijaljević, from the place: Yes, I do. ) I ask the service to place the objections of the MP to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, paragraphs 1 and 2, in the day for the vote. Dragan Shormaz, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u994	It is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Comic, but according to the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226. First, I have one question, and I want to express my protest. I would like to ask, as a folk MP, a question – why so far has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not responded, which is why I am protesting, for interviewing US Deputy Secretary of State Daniel Fried published in "Evening News". In my opinion, Mr Fried, and probably anyone who has read this text, clearly and directly interfered with Serbia's internal affairs as deputy State Secretary of State. He said he expects the new government of the Republic of Serbia to bring Washington and Belgrade to the former level. Is that what he expects of the new government to return the ambassador to Washington, contrary to the action plan we adopted together? Then, he hopes Russia will not try to prevent Tadic and Cvetkovic from committing themselves to Serbia's European future. As if Russia had ever interfered in Serbia's European future, however, several times said they had nothing against European integration in Serbia and that Serbia would become part of the EU. Why is this interesting? Please make sure I quote a lot from here. In the following sentence, Mr. Daniel Fried is roughly one thing, he says -- the Russians repeat that there will be no larger Serbs than Serbs. They do not repeat this in terms of European integration, but in terms of defence of Kosovo and Metohija, so it is a classic substitute for the thesis, telling lies and all the things that DSS and New Serbia MPs say all the time. The way this government is forming says what Washington wants and that, in fact, it forms this government, through this interview it is clearly seen. He also said that the Serb assembly in Kosovo and Metohija is a symbol of the division that exists since 1999. In Serbia's AP, Kosovo and Metohija, there has been a division due to Shipar Separatism for decades, not because of the creation of the Serb assembly. And there have been no divisions since 1999; in 1999 there were only violations of international law, the bombing of Serbia with forbidden weapons, bombs with impoverished uranium, tape bombs, and the killing of civilians and citizens of the Serbian state, not divided into the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. He made another finding, very dangerous for us and for the state of Serbia, and I, for who knows which time from this pay phone, invites all of you to imagine yourself well, especially all those who make up the assembly majority and try to choose a pro-vestington government, not pro-European, not the government of social justice and equality. He said the Serbian assembly does not have the support of most Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Gentlemen, in other words, Washington has already set out to break the unity of Serbian living in Kosovo and Metohija. Their full and absolute goal is that in Serbia they have a government that will deal with less important or irrelevant issues, not with Kosovo and Metohija... (President: Four minutes. How much did I quote, Mrs. Comic? I've been quoting for at least three minutes. (President: 32 seconds you quoted, 30 seconds you got to finish thinking. I'm finishing up, it's not a thought, it's a fact. So, Washington is forming in Serbia this government to deal with everything and everything, some important but certainly less important issues than Kosovo and Metohija, and that during that time the Cypriot separatists, with the help of Eulex and NATO in Kosovo and Metohija, will succeed in forming their own state. It is such a capacity for Washington to assess that it takes at least four years, but if Serbia is not engaged in Kosovo. The goal is this. I warn you and ask all the responsible MPs, before the government's agenda comes together, to imagine well what we should do next week.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u995	I request the National Assembly's service that a stenogram of the presentation of MP Dragan Shormaz be sent to the Foreign Ministry to receive the necessary response. Is there anyone else reporting on the amendment submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to article 20? The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u996	The occasion is this amendment, and there should be some more to be added. Of course, this is about connecting things. When it comes to transitional and final provisions, I am talking about Article 20, here is what the Ministry of Agriculture takes over: veterinary, plant protection, forest and agricultural land, which ceases to work, etc. There is no indication of what is being taken over from environmental protection jobs. When it comes to Article 20, it shows that the Ministry of Agriculture is taking over the following: the system of protection and sustainable use of natural resources (air, water, land, mineral raw materials, forests, fish, wild plant and animal species), the development of strategic documents, plans and research programmes in the area of sustainable use of energy and renewable energy sources and inspections in the area of sustainable use of natural resources and environmental protection. This is directly copied from the work of the current Ministry of Environmental Protection. It is not later seen whether employees, appointed persons, rights and obligations are taken over for the Ministry of Agriculture from the Ministry of the Environment, subject and equipment, means of work, archives needed to exercise competence in this area. This would, in fact, be the first time the Ministry of Agriculture has been involved in these jobs related to renewable energy sources, regardless of what is possible to imagine that the bio-mass is partially created by activities in agriculture. So this way, defined jobs, which are transferred from environmental protection to agriculture, can't be explained by any logic. Believe me, as much as we've been looking for and looking at in the positive regulations, of course when it comes to the positive side of the legislation that would be some kind of reference basis for determining the reality of this proposal, this is nowhere to be found. So we were really trying to find it. Thus, such defined jobs do not exist in any single agriculture ministry in Europe. We believe that the removal of this Ministry of Environmental Protection and the transfer to another ministry cannot be defined in any other way than as a kind of political trade, when it comes to personnel taking over individual ministries and what is allowed for someone who is inadmissible to take over and to work according to your coalition arrangement. Again, it's the same thing, we're going back to the same objections we've had when it comes to other ministries, and there's still not one single reason to see what's been done. I ask you most nicely, try to think about what we are talking about and try to adopt some of these amendments proposed by the MPs of the opposition to normalize this law as much as possible. If someone comes out here and explains what the reason here is when it comes to the provision of Article 20, and this is why the Ministry of Environmental Protection is impoverished, and on the other hand, if you remember, is again enriched by the simple copying of paragraphs from Article 11, when it comes to infrastructure, if someone can explain it to me here, I would really congratulate him on that. I think that's absolutely impossible. It's natural, and I said it publicly in front of the press, I told this speaker, that the ruling coalition would try to make ministries and their structure and according to its archeological structure, according to some agreement, and that in a simpler and easier way, the very agreement they're making is realized. Nobody slows it down, that's not the problem. The problem is that when you try to implement your agreement what you write in the law sounds illogical, creates problems and creates problems in the realization of the affairs of these ministries. You'll find yourself facing serious problems. These problems will be realised in practice, they will be realised through the submission of a bill that will come before this assembly. Consequently, you will encounter a billion problems when it comes to the response of this assembly to the proposals of the laws that we see, not to mention what will be in practice, what will happen in those transactions from the section of these ministries and when it comes to control, when it comes to inspection supervision, when it comes to human resources needed to do business, when it comes to saving the work of the authorities of the state administration. Because in order to save the work of the government's authority, it is necessary that the state administration itself, the apparatus, be set up in a rational way. The proposal for this law shows that it will not be easy at all. On the contrary, as we have said in the last few days, the proposal for this law suggests that there will be a number of jobs, that you will bring in some new personnel resources to make it work at all. Because you can't see the idea at all, you can't even see where the lead is, you can't see how you think all of this that you've combined into one meaningful continent, and how you're going to use existing human resources and existing human resources in the authorities of the state administration to get these jobs done. So, to me, this seems sloppy, and you're probably aware of that yourself. If you don't fix this... Although there is one big problem in repairing it: if you correct the law in the meantime, you will admit that you have made a mistake at the moment, and you are making a mistake at the moment because you have made a political agreement back-to-back, and then you have back-to-back written this law, without too much deepening in the problem. That's how you tie your hands. I'm not overly sorry for you, I'm sorry for the end-of-the-art budget users in this country, for the citizens who will eventually suffer the consequences of your mistakes, of what you're doing. All this is because you would make a government in return whose goals are not clear to us at all and whose policy is not clear at all, which we have already talked about for days, whose policy will likely be even more unclear when we hear the exposés of the future Prime Minister, or Prime Minister. Again, we'll open that story when we hear the exposés, if you give us at least a little time to read it, if it's divided in writing. Then we'll open this discussion in a valid way when it comes to government politics itself. By reading the proposal for a law on ministries and certain parts of it to conclude what is quite another – that it is one hard-connected continent, in fact that these continents are not, that it consists of clumps, that it consists of rotten compromises when it comes to potential humane solutions. It's all coming from this, and you ladies and gentlemen go ahead and on the day when the prime minister gives up his exposé, deny what we're talking about. I'm just afraid that the answers to these questions won't get us that day, I'm afraid it'll all be skipped, but trust us that everything that Mr. Prime Minister of the new government doesn't say that day will certainly be said on our side, that it will be pointed out in a very clear and precise way and that it will be, of course, our further basis of the criticism of that government that we're convinced at the beginning that it won't be able to bring out what it promises and that I'm not talking about what it won't even promise. Surely he cannot promise to protect Serbia's state interests in a valid way, because it was never, in fact, or will be its goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u997	Anyone else want a word to discuss this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There is a word from MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u998	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have to say something I've been trying to say all day, but you don't seem to understand me. I am very happy that Mrs. Komic's amendment, which is very meaningful and has to do with the concept that the Ministry of Environmental Protection has established, with what she wants to do in the coming period, because I think continuity is extremely important. I would also be so happy that all other meaningful amendments, and many of them, were adopted in the same way, because I think that we as MPs should have the exact same rights, regardless of whether we belong to the majority or to the opposition in this House. So the adopted amendment is extremely good, indeed this law will energize and make it better, but I ask that you treat all our amendments in the same way, because there have been so many, even many more amendments... In fact, only this other side, or opposition and rules. I point out once again, we have rights, there have been many quality amendments, so look at them, maybe we can fix that law too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u999	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the amendment to the title above Articles 21 and 21. The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1000	Honorable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on ministries. Of course, this refers specifically to the Ministry of Culture. Until the proposal for this law on the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture had an official title - the Ministry of Culture and Information. Now, in this proposal for a law on ministries, the first time stands only - the Ministry of Culture. So, the "and the information" is deleted. I think it's very important and that it should come back because "The Ministry of Culture and Information" means a lot more and says a lot more, it's much more binding, regardless of what the Ministry of Culture means and what the Ministry of Culture's information is about means of public information and information in several ways, I think again - wrong. Here, I quote from the article, where one sentence reads: "monitoring law enforcement in the field of public information". I think the word "tracking" is a little vague and we shouldn't play it that way. What does tracking mean? Tracking can be passive. You know, I can follow a theater show, I can follow a movie, I can follow events in culture, but something called participation and law enforcement in the field of public information, it doesn't stand anywhere. I think that's the point, and that's very important, especially in the country of Serbia, in culture, in a region where we've fallen a lot. Why am I saying that we have fallen asleep and that we no longer know what we are doing in culture or what our information is? I say that for the simple reason that this bill does not stand anywhere who controls and controls the application of the information law. So who's responsible for controlling the application of the information law? Does this mean that, in the already chaotic state that we have in culture and information, all the means of public information can give themselves discretion and evaluate everything that happens in culture as they like or as the ruling political party or party in power tells them? You know, we've had a big problem so far, it's very sad and I think you'll agree with me regardless of the political definitions, that we simply erased something that makes our literature, traditional, that we have annulled our great writers, such as Branislav Nusic, that we have trampled the precosian, Kosovo and post-cosion cycle by playing with the Royal Mark. I'm saying all of this because I think that no single person can allow any work of our writers (so I'm talking about domestic literature) to be done publicly and wrong, in order to get what point that we are, here's the "fancy" that we are "in" that we are not the traditional Serbian family to which we really should admire and which we should be proud to talk. It's one thing about this bill. Secondly, I quote: implementation of cultural heritage, cultural creation and information in the language and letter of members of the Serbian people – therefore, to apply culture – in the region; paraphrasing what is in the law. If you have read the Constitution, and I assume all MPs have read the Constitution, our Constitution has long known the word "region." The region has been replaced by administrative districts and local self-government made up of cities and municipalities, so that the application of culture in the region, in which region, in the Shumadian region, Pomoravska? I don't understand what region. So, application of culture in the country and abroad. We cannot keep what is happening on our Serbian cultural scene geographically only within Serbia. If I'm not mistaken, we have, I don't know the official number, maybe I'm wrong, someone will correct me, but some estimates have been made and we have four million of our people living outside Serbia. What are we going to offer them from culture? Does this mean that Serbs in Croatia, Serbs in Hungary, Romania, should not follow in Macedonia what is happening in Serbia's cultural territory? So my question is concrete: why is it just the Ministry of Culture, why isn't it the Ministry of Culture and Information? And what's important and I think it's quite logical, culture can't only apply to administrative districts and local self-government, but, of course, it's a culture in the country and abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1001	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1002	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as last year, and now a colleague of our theatre, Mrs Lidija Vukicevic, has responded to an intensification of the assembly majority and a catastrophic situation in our culture, and above all to the fact that you have abolished the Ministry of Information. I really don't know how these SPO colleagues are going to vote for it, given that Mr. Koadinovic was in that very important position. The information segment is something that every country in the world... And look at the countries of the West, where you're flocking, and they won't take Serbia exactly as you would like, but come from Russia, indeed, every country in the world puts a very large accent in the field of information. The fact is that this is a rasmusmoniade, I can say so freely, in the field of electronic and printed media, something that really requires that there be control. The laws that exist in this area are insufficient to regulate this matter, and now we do not have a Ministry of Information, which should react in many situations in our country, which this ministry of culture does not do, because the Ministry of Culture, as you have heard from Mrs Vukicevic, does not perform its basic function. Here are the mayors of Kragujevac and Mr Milenić, my fellow citizens. I can rightly say I come from one of Serbia's cultural centers. Kragujevac, a city with such history, tradition, the first Serbian theatre, does not receive funding (except for what is financed from the very budget of the town of Kragujevac) for cultural events that need not only the cultural and national awareness of our children and youth to raise to an even higher level, but to promote this historic tradition and guidance for the future in the best possible way possible. You're so absolutely everywhere. When you look at who the directors of Belgrade theatres are, when you look at who they are, who they are in national performances, and that's not Mrs Vukicevic, because the patriot and the Serbian are witnessed, then we come to the fact that culture is reduced to subjection, to those who are similar to the execution of a global process, which is the destruction of Serbian language, Serbian tradition and culture. We come to a situation where, in the area of the media, both printed and electronic, it gets high, it does whatever it wants. It wasn't enough just to open an ad for national and regional frequencies, to get broadcasting permits, both for television and for radio, you need to look at who's playing it with public opinion today and who are those who are trying to create public opinion and influence the citizens of Serbia. How much abuse in the pre-election campaign, which is pointless to talk about in such short time, from local media that are under the authority of local self-government, through those who have received the national frequency, because Boris Tadic, so narcissistic as God has given him, appeared every day not in two but in three roles. One day he's party president, and then he's a list bearer, and then he's president of Serbia, and then he's someone who's been running after this failed candidate for mayor of Belgrade, Gilasom, so he's lost himself more, since the morning he doesn't know which suit to wear, or how to go and what to do. That's why it was good... By making one clear fence again, it was just a shortened court case, which was not good, which we eventually admitted, but should have been conducted in regular proceedings in efficient courts for violations in the field of public information. That's why the law passed at the time of Alexander Vukic's ministry was the best law ever passed in that area in Serbia, I think in Serbia, which has been multiparty since the 1990s. The lack of that law was only in that it was not necessary for the courts to react in an infraction and speedy manner, and that some were hysterical and were given the opportunity to complain to various "solšovci" and the US State Department, and these then gave them a pile of money to destroy and break down our country's national sovereignty. In the area of printed and written media, he does whatever he wants and no one answers. Last week I was really amazed, it's about a very trendy weekly, and usually behind such trendy weeklys who invent various cuisines and have paranoia for various issues and for various political parties and personalities... An article appeared in which Mr. Dragan Todorovic, not intentionally but tendedly, replaced with a certain Todorovic, the owner of a company in Lozovic. Correct me, you radicals, if I'm wrong, and I think I'm right. What is Mr. Todorovic supposed to do now? So far, for all the actions he has done, both Mr Mircic and the other Serbian radicals have not yet led to regular courts of the answer; whoever comes to mind tonight, and especially if it is against the SRS and its leadership, can live to the will. What, then, to surprise us in Serbia? Let's put aside the political party and say -- Natasa Jovanovic is still biased, although I am not, and you know very well that everything is always supported by arguments... Let us take an example of Professor Emir Kusturica and this scandal that took place in the oldest newspaper in the Balkans, in the daily "Politicals". Imagine Serbia, where the chairman of the board of directors, instead of a certified Serbian patriot and one of the most famous anti-globalists who loves Serbia most in the world, Sonja Licht! Indeed, to cross a man, as they say, with both his right and his left hand, until Serbia came. A man who has invested all his efforts, his knowledge by promoting both our tradition and culture, the last cent, which is said, not the euro, to present our national values and intends to continue doing so, unlike some others... I believe that he will be honored to the end in his work and in his intention to realize this project, to the joy of all Kragujevchans from Šumadia, in my hometown. That's how the overnight shifts are done just because Boris is... And, as the Prophet said, those people who have been fans of the characters and the works of Joseph Broz will really be angry, not these uncommunists, who are these ideas, and who I've been fighting all my life, as well as the people who are my like-minded... There, they probably reacted to these still-lived anti-fascist movement fighters, Partisans, and complained to Verisa what Boris Tadic calls their marshal, Josip Broz. We've come into a situation today that such a "brozen"... In fact, it's a person who can't stand anyone above himself, he's self-sufficient, he's nationally absorbed, he doesn't want to talk about Serbia going that way and promoting the values of our country and the other national minorities and religious communities that live here. What are we going to talk about next and think about, colleague Vukicevic, about our theatre, about who's going to get the funds and what projects and what movies to make? People who celebrated Serbian culture, you have an example of Olivera Vucho, or Katarina, who was satanized for 30 years, all suffering and carrying it as their cross. You see how God takes care of it all again, and how it all comes back to itself. So she welcomed, after 30 years, that the ovations welcomed the entire "Sava Center" and the entire Serbian nation, because she sang and acted out of the soul and heart for her people who loved the world most. (President: five minutes. I'm finishing up, Mrs. Comic. So, here is Mrs Vukicevic, and so is Professor Kusturica, and so is the other greats of our theatre, our writers and witnesses against globalism, this greatest evil that wants to completely destroy Serbia. Such a process is unstoppable, be sure of it, because there are people who are really able to go around the world and show what kind of people we are, the best, the most common and noble people in the world. Such people, along with our idea, the idea of Serbian radicals, will win, make sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1003	Does anyone else in the other parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1004	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I would only refer to the presentation of my colleague on the title that was passed without the Ministry of Culture in the proposal for a law on ministries, i.e. where the information was thrown out. If you have read this article, you can see that here completely, in the whole article, every action in the culture is based on the word information. Culture and part of the culture that takes place under the Ministry of Culture, which is conducted by the Ministry of Culture, if there is no information, that part of the culture remains for itself. Information is one very important segment. You see, he says -- monitoring public enterprises, music and stage creation, monitoring in the field of public information, correspondence of the Republic of Serbia, co-operation with certain art associations and providing material resources, etc.; everything relies on co-operation and monitoring. Nowhere here is stated that the Ministry of Culture is responsible for conducting and overseeing certain actions carried out in the legal frameworks for certain activities in the field of culture. If there is no supervision and control of law enforcement in the field of culture, who is in charge of reacting if there is a lack of respect for law enforcement in the area? According to what is stated in this text, all is co-operation and monitoring. I therefore believe that you should return, first correct it, jurisdiction, oversight and implementation of this law in culture. Why was the word "information" thrown out? I really don't get it. I'd like to get an answer, probably like a lot of people here in the O.R., from the legislators of this law, which is why the word "information" is thrown out when we know what it means in today's time to inform in general in the country, let alone out of it. One more thing, whether it was an accidental or deliberate mistake, it is said - co-operation in the field of cultural heritage protection, cultural creation and information in the language and letter of members of the Serb people in the region. Excuse me, please, it's not just our Serbian culture in our regions. I guess our culture in our language should spread beyond our country, where it lives between two and four million people. I suggest that the words "in the country and abroad" be inserted here, in order to make some sense of this. So I ask you to support this amendment, in the interest of all citizens of Serbia and those living abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1005	The title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1006	The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic tabled an amendment to Article 22, i.e. we have proposed that Article 22 be deleted. Article 22 speaks of the Ministry of National Investment Plan. We understand that when a congregation majority forms a government then the assembly majority in agreement with that future government prepares a bill on government and ministry law. But there are some parts of this law that really cannot survive in the law, or that they cannot survive in legal traffic, or in the practice of a future government. When it comes to the National Investment Plan, Serbian citizens are well aware that funds from the NIP have been misused in this previous government and it is clear who has been specifically the executioner of abuse when it comes to NIP funds. Dragan Gilas, who served as a portfolio-free minister, available NIP funds as if his people's money had been left to him by Dad. How did he distribute them? Through the People's Office of the President of the Republic. I remind you that in time Boris Tadic formed the National Office quite the opposite of the Constitution and the laws of the time, that the head of the National Office had been appointed by Dragan Djilas, that the Republic of Serbia had spent years in the budget of the National Office, and that we from the Serbian Radical Party each time the adopted budget intervened and reminded that the National Office was not a constitutional category and that it could neither be a direct nor indirect user of the budget. Meanwhile, the National Office has advanced by opening up national offices in the premises they took from local self-government, i.e. in municipalities or in the best business areas in the best locations on the territory of the municipality. That People's Office actually served as a money launderer. Through the National Office, abuses similar to those discussed today by Mr Dragan Todorovic in the afternoon part of this session, i.e. through the National Office of Belgrade and the National Offices, according to the "yellow" municipalities, the Democratic Party bought the voter's will throughout Serbia. You heard how it was done today. It's just one way. All citizens of Serbia, those who voted for the Democratic Party and those who did not know, as well as all of you sitting here in the hall, that on the day of the elections, not only these last ones, but also the presidential and previous ones, shared the food packages, that five and ten euros were distributed per house, in such a way that the dignity of the citizens was insulted. Unfortunately, since the DOS has so destroyed this people materially since 2000, people have even accepted these petty, miserable funds or packages and have cast their votes on the party, because they had to, because they used one ballot. You know that old rule, that's another Bane Ivkovic introduced to you at the time when he helped Djindjic, you remember all of that time, when with one empty ballot, he turns more circles and that's how he abuses the will of the citizens. The National Office and these national offices, meanwhile, have since last called the Government, grown into something called the National Investment Plan. It was actually the government in the government. The National Investment Plan includes all the funds of privatisation; of course, these are the money of Serbian citizens, who have one man at their disposal. In the last term, that man was Dragan Gilas. The people on the ground, in municipalities where those who were not within this group who had made up the former government of the Republic of Serbia, and especially where they were not representatives of the Democratic Party, are well aware that they had the funds of that fund. Neither was it known when competitions were being explored, nor was it known who was the one assessing the programmes on which the funds were allocated. Dragan Djilas, through this National Investment Plan, managed all the resolutions, in fact the complete government of the Republic of Serbia, because it exclusively depended on him and Mladjan Dinkic whether someone would receive funds to implement a plan and some programme from the government or from the level of local self-government. Now we have, therefore, the Ministry of National Investment Plan. We don't know who the minister of this ministry will be, but whoever he is, we are in advance expressing our suspicion that he will abuse those funds from the National Investment Plan. Whoever it is, it's gonna be just like before, when it comes to Dragan Gilas, like when you let the goat keep the cabbage. One government cannot allow another government to exist. Whatever it is, the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has 126 votes of MPs, will be a legitimate, or legal government. Of course, opposition MPs, at least as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, will use their right to criticise the government's work in every place where it stands for criticism. So we're not talking about this aspect right now, but we're talking about a reality that, as far as Serbian radicals are concerned, is unacceptable. What do you foresee in this law as the jurisdiction of the Ministry of National Investment Plan? For the sake of the public of Serbia, although all the MPs have received this proposal, I do not claim that everyone has read it because I see that they do not participate in the work, but for the public of Serbia, in order to know why we want to delete this and that this ministry does not exist... You say, "The Ministry of National Investment Plan does the tasks of the state administration relating to: The National Investment Plan... ". This is so high-minded that I really don't know who comes up with a sentence like this. Furthermore, the same ministry will carry out tasks related to the system, development and improvement of the National Investment Plan projects. It's just amazing. So you formulate something that's pointless. The Ministry of National Investment Plan shall carry out tasks related to the National Investment Plan, for the system, development and improvement of the National Investment Plan projects. That's really funny. Next: "... strategic planning, initiating and implementing projects along with competent ministries... ". If they're going to do it together with the departments in charge, why aren't they just doing it by those responsible ministries? Isn't that only possible and only in accordance with our political and legal system? You say, "... calling and making a public call for project selection... ". In this room on this side, where Serbian Radical Party MPs sit, there are people who were the presidents of the municipalities in that last meeting (of course, citizens from that territory) and they know perfectly well that they could not get close to that National Investment Plan just because they were from the SRS. You're still saying, "... proposing to the Government of the National Investment Plan project... ". It establishes a National Investment Plan along with other ministries, so it proposes to the government, it is within the government, and there is a circle closing. Really incomprehensible. "Projecting the budget for projects from the National Investment Plan" – I would really like you to honestly say if you see how unreasonable this is, how stupid this is, not to exaggerate, but really it is, how pointless what is written as a part of the work of this ministry is. He says, "... participation in implementation and monitoring of projects in phases... ". Well, if some means are determined then, of course, in the resorient, competent ministries there are organs, or parts of those ministries that will follow. "Controlling project implementation" – it's the same as this one before, you just worked a little bit to get more text. Co-operation and co-ordination with the ministries – that's amazing. For one of the ministries, you say in the ministry law that they will co-operate with the other ministries in the government! I don't know what's gonna happen to these ministries that you didn't write it for. Does that mean the rest of us don't want to cooperate, but just this ministry? Either it's especially important because all the money will go through this ministry, and then whoever's good with that future minister or whoever's from his party, there's the money, not just for the community. Co-operation and coordination with the authorities of autonomous provinces and bodies of units of local self-government – so, when it comes to units of local self-government, we all know perfectly what experience we have in this previous period with Gilas when it comes to these funds. When it comes to the authorities of autonomous provinces, then we have fresh examples; I have talked several times about what the Democratic Party's relationship to the authorities of autonomous provinces is, and this time I think of AP Kosovo and Metohija. You have shown this by not participating in the formation of the Serb assembly in Kosovo and Metohija, with reason to wait for a new government to be elected in Serbia, so that, in accordance with what... I don't know what that has to do with the new government if they're done, if the deal is made, if they're all party representatives. Why do you not want to respect the will of citizens of Serbian nationality, or non-Albanian nationality, because there are both Roma and Muslims in the assembly? So why don't you respect the will of Kosovo and Metohija voters, but wait for the government to form? It's completely unreasonable. To remind, first of all, for the sake of Serbian citizens, the newly elected president of the municipality in Strpc, Zvonko Mihajlovic, from the Serbian Radical Party, could not enter the municipality building in Strpc because there was occupied by a gentleman from the Democratic Party, who was otherwise elected in the elections when he was calling for all... Of course, since Kosovo and Metohija are under occupation, we Serbian radicals have always urged that no legitimacy be given to the so-called team. Kosovo authorities and not to participate in the elections. Now, the Democrats took part in the elections and was then elected president of the municipality in 2002. He wouldn't let Zvonko Mihajlovic enter the municipality building. The explanation was that he established excellent communication with UNMIK and that there was no need for it to change now, although Zvonko Mihajlovic won the drastic majority in Strpc for the municipality's post, or the Serbian Radical Party's list. I see it expires 15 minutes, just one more sentence. You are saying in the end that this NIP ministry will run the business of encouraging international co-operation in areas of importance for the NIP. Of course, this refers very clearly to the sale of NIS and EPS, which is the last big money in Serbia that you will waste on Serbia's citizens through this new government. That's why you need the NIP Department. We'll see Monday, or since you're planning a session on the government, which you're planning here for the minister. Then we will be absolutely certain that we are right when we claim that the NIP, or the NIP ministry, should be abolished. Two days ago, you were playing a team whether or not you would end the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, which is of paramount importance and for which we have advocated through the amendments already in two past calls to the Assembly and during the two previous governments. Of course, to satisfy the public, you say - we did listen, since the public is responding to a large number of ministries. What are you going to end? The Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. So when you were questioned by the assembly majority, then you said no, we were joking, we're returning that ministry. So, very irresponsible, very unserious. Why didn't you listen to opposition MPs from all parties, and the SRS, and the DSS and the LDP, which is in this part of the opposition, probably for other motives and reasons, but in any case, you had the view of all of the opposition that the NIP ministry should not exist. You ignored it because it's part of a coalition deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1007	Anyone else want a word to discuss this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the chairman-in-Office, thinks that there are insufficiently convincing reasons for the existence of a special NIP ministry in the Serbian government. Let me remind you, since June 2007, by means of so-called The National Investment Plan was managed by a portfolio-free minister through the NIP Office. The existence of this special, specialised body that should have spent the funds that existed proved to be unwarranted. It is clear to us that coalition negotiations need to satisfy the appetites of all parties, but we do not understand why it is necessary for the NIP ministry to exist. If a party was to belong to this NIP, why is the NIP Office not attached to that ministry whose minister is from the party to which the NIP belongs? Also, Serbia has negative experience with the existence and work of the so-called ". Superministers, such as the Ministry of Capital Investment or the Ministry of Infrastructure. The bill creates exactly one such ministry. I will remind the MPs that the draft of this law abolishs the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure and that it is attached to the newly established NIP Ministry. This will only contribute to the interference of competences between this ministry and, for example, The Ministry of Infrastructure. Also, the construction of the proposed Article 22 is unclear, i.e. from this article, not clear how coordination between different ministries will take place, e.g. Ministry of NIP, Ministry of Infrastructure, Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. In such a situation, it is inadmissible that there is a special ministry that will have powers in the projection and implementation of investment businesses of general importance. We LDP MPs think it is wrong that there is a Ministry of the NIP and we hope that this amendment will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1009	Anyone else want a word to discuss this amendment? National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1010	I won't take your time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I would like to warn, on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group, of one important thing that will be the result of this change in the institutional framework from the NIP Office, as it has been so far, of turning it into the NIP Ministry. In fact, there was a portfolio-free ministry in the previous government, which was responsible for implementing the NIP, and it, together with the resolution ministries, implemented the NIP projects, or projects from the NIP. There was one thing that was very good at the time: since there wasn't a resolution ministry but an office at the level of the directorates, there had to be a so-called. A double signature system; for a project it had to stand for the resolute ministry, on the one hand, and the director of the NIP Office. With this change, all the control that existed is lost and everything is put into the hands of the Ministry. Now the resolute minister will be the person who will have the money more or less without any control. Given that in the part of the law relating to this ministry in Article 22, as we heard from colleague Vjerica, it is very unwise to explain what the ministry's obligations are or what the ministry is going to do at all, that we do not say that at the very least there has to be a definition of what it is, given that this is about the Ministry's law, I think that here parliamentary control or any kind of control will be completely impossible, so before we see in the media that this ministry has belonged to financial ministries, which are all under the control of one party - G17 plus. We haven't heard here for the last few days a single reason, or in the media, why it needs to be institutionally changed and that from the Office for the National Investment Plan to the Ministry of National Investment Plan. What Mr. Hajdarevic said before me, if the purpose was to put it under one party's control, then why didn't you simply change the ministry's jurisdiction to add the NIP Office to Mladjan Dinkic's superministership? In that way you could also establish control of G 17 plus, if that's the subject, or the request, or at all the desire that is being achieved. Please adopt this amendment, this has nothing to do with the government, with the ruling majority, it has nothing to do with sound logic only, and how much it has to do with the fact that the amendment is in the same text, no matter how different we are, both SRS and LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1011	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if there were any political hearing on the part of the assembly majority, they would accept this amendment, because if the amendment to the same article of the bill were submitted, in the same text, the MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and the Liberal Democratic Party, then it is a sign that something in the bill is really wrong. As far as the National Investment Plan is concerned, all those arguments made by Ms. Verice Radet why this amendment should be accepted, of course, stand. I'd like to add something else. Everywhere in the world, so was the Republic of Serbia until this bill, ministries are educated for certain areas of social life, for large areas of social life, such as the judiciary, agriculture, culture, sport, etc. This is probably a unique example in the world that the ministry is not educated for an area of social life to do public administration jobs in the area, but is educated for a kind of a very specific budget fund, where in a very arbitrarily way, this budget fund has a very political party, most often for the purpose of a pre-election campaign. I doubt there are any institutions in the world like the National Investment Plan. In Serbia, the NIP is a mythic institution that is mainly covered by a veil of secrets. Few people know how to actually share funds from the NIP. What the facts show is that it mainly serves the Democratic Party's political marketing. By the way, one similar institution that exists at the level of the AP Vojvodina, which is the Capital Investment Fund, serves for the same marketing. The Serbian Radical Party believes the government is too bulky and that this is one of the more reasons why the NIP ministry should be abolished, i.e. why this ministry should not be set up at all. Since gentlemen, above all from the Democratic Party, and as we see these other gentlemen, or comrades who have joined them on this European path, like to insist on some European standards in the legislation, I will take the opportunity to remind them of what these standards look like when it comes to the organisation of state administration. Their great friends from the United States have 14 secretariats. What the Americans call the secretariats, or when it comes to the State Department, the State Secretariat, those are our ministries. So the Americans have 14 ministries. The Federal Republic of Germany has 16, Spain 18, Belgium 20. This future government, if I'm not mistaken, will have 24 ministries. For example, the countries serving Mr. Bosko Ristic and the Democratic Party, Slovenia and Croatia, stand with the number of ministries: Slovenia 17, Croatia 18. In the Principality of Serbia in 1862, the first law on the establishment of a central state administration was passed at the time of Prince Michael. The law stipulates that there are seven ministries in the Principality of Serbia. In 1882, when Prince Milan declared himself king, the eighth ministry was founded. Eight ministries of Serbia had until 1918. To remind you, it was the time of the Serbian state's greatest progress in all fields: political, economic, cultural. Serbia managed to restore its occupied territories in Kosovo and Metohija and Macedonia and managed to create, along with Montenegro, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. You see, then Serbian politicians did not think that whenever a new government is formed, they are passing a new government law and a new ministry law. That law of Prince Michael of 1862 was valid, ladies and gentlemen, until 1929. Look up to those old Serbian politicians. It hasn't started history since October 5th, it doesn't start history with the Democratic Party. However, there was no Democratic Party in Serbia at the time, there was another party, whose political sequel we are, Pasic's Radical Party. As you can see, whenever radicals ruled Serbia, Serbia progressed. When you ruled Serbia, especially since October 5th, you see where we've come from. Why am I saying all this? Because the members of the Democratic Party, since they came to power in an anti-constitutional manner on 5 October, have shown Serbia's political history in one manner; by 5 October everything was black, after 5 October, everything was white. That black thing wasn't even good for the government either. It was irrational, massive, tromical, in the service of politics, etc., so the gentlemen of the Democratic Party took the job of correcting it. Right, Mr. Millyvoy? You know that best, you've helped the badgers to form the state administration on European standards. Unfortunately, the numbers are inexorable, they're not in favor of you. You said in 2000 – when we come to power, the state administration will be rational, it will not be expensive, it will be in the interests of the citizens of Serbia etc. However, the figures show something completely different. According to the data, your Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government on 31 August 2001 in the Republic authorities of the administration, except for the Ministry of State Administration, and special organisations in the Government's and the Government's Joint Affairs Office of the Republic's authorities, 171 persons were appointed and 7,928 persons employed. Not three years later, on 31 March 2004, the state administration in the Republic of Serbia increased slightly more than three times; the number of people working in the central state administration, without the MUP, was 27,238 people. If these data are compared with World Bank data on the number of employees in individual European countries between 1999 and 2001, it is concluded that the Serbian state administration is greater than the state administration in Finland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland. Just to remind you, with the exception of Finland, all these countries, which until a few years ago, as well as the Republic of Serbia, were in transition and were admitted into the EU in 2004. Comparative data on the participation of employees and officials in the state administration in the Republic of Serbia and Central and Eastern European countries in the total volume of public spending are also unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia. During 2004, the Republic of Serbia recorded a higher participation of the profit fund in the total volume of public spending than in Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia. I purposely state these countries to you because they are somehow comparable to the Republic of Serbia according to their political situation, economic strength, territory. This is the last data from 2004. What the state administration looks like today and how many employees it is, I doubt any of the MPs know that. The current state administration minister and local self-government are probably hiding it as a snake's feet. I asked them not only for work in the National Assembly, but also for someone professionally engaged in administrative law; I requested official documentation from the Ministry, from the Government, whether there was any official document, official data on how many state administrations of the Republic of Serbia today, in 2008, numbers of officials and employees. You will hardly be able to obtain this information unless you may contact the Republic's Commissioner for Public Information. As you can see, this law that you are proposing right now is absolutely out of line with the political principles that you have declared. Just to remind you, in 2004, the first government of Vojislav Kostunica brought in a document called the State Administration Reform Strategy. Among other things, the OSCE mission in Serbia took part in the development of the strategy. In November 2004, when the strategy was officially published at the Hayat Hotel in Belgrade, I was present in front of the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, Mauricio Masari, the then head of the OSCE mission in Serbia, praised the strategy, that this is a great plan document that will very quickly lead to the fact that the state administration in the Republic of Serbia will absolutely be compatible with state administrations in the environment, and above all with state administrations of countries that are members of the EU. As you can see, these data are extremely unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia. Now one logical question is asked – does this future government commit a State Administration Reform Strategy or does it remain a dead letter on paper? If you look at the previous 2007 Ministry Act and look at the one that is now being passed, you'll see that the ruling oligarchy actually has no intention of reducing the number of employees in the authorities of the administration. On the contrary, they increase the number of administration bodies year by year in a completely irrational way. In the afternoon debate, I showed that within the Ministry of Environmental Protection, an agency that is also called is being educated. As part of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Agency for the Protection of the Environment is educated. Two authorities, both authorities of the Republic of Serbia, are both doing the same job, and there are two bodies. Is there any reason for that? There probably isn't, except purely political, to house your party personnel in these ministries and these agencies. I am told that there is another reason: you will not only host your party staff, but now you need to make a political trade with your new coalition partners who have joined you on this European path, and now you need to find places for them somewhere. Believe me, what you're doing -- you're making up your political accounts by starting some new ministries from year to year that don't exist anywhere in the world, you're setting up a whole series of agencies -- it really doesn't make any sense. Just to remind you, some of the agencies established in the Republic of Serbia after 2001 have been educated even by the Serbian government regulations, and the basic principle is in all countries of the world, as well as in the Republic of Serbia, that state authorities and state institutions can be educated exclusively by laws. It wasn't binding on you. You've even educated some agencies by government regulations and you continue to do so. One elemental question arises, does anyone in the Republic of Serbia, from the Government, from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, how much does the agency, what do these agencies do, how much budget funds they spend, have any results in their work, and have the citizens of the Republic of Serbia seen any benefit from such a massive state administration? If you really want to do well to the Republic of Serbia, then you must accept this amendment. I am particularly speaking to SPS and PUPS gentlemen, they have an additional sense of social stability in Serbia and the social security of our citizens. I assure you that this time the Democratic Party has set up this number of ministries, to set up a ministry for something that does not exist in any country in the world, is really not a way to establish a socially responsible government. This is just a way to establish a parasitic government that will spend enormous budgets, and it will have no results or have results, but exclusively negative ones. What the Democratic Party has done since 2000 is, in fact, the best way to confirm it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1013	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1014	The Honored Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, member of the 23rd draft law on the existence of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. Since the outgoing government probably doesn't have much interest in this issue, and the new governments haven't yet, I would like to address the assembly majority that will bring about a new government. Otherwise, the amendment says Article 23 is deleted. That is why I would ask the future government and the ruling assembly majority the question of the resonation of such a ministry. In fact, this issue can be approached from a formal legal point of view. Of course, both sides lead to the same outcome - there is no reason to introduce, or for the existence of this ministry. If this problem is approached from a formal legal point of view, we can appeal to the Constitution, to existing legislation, to sublegal acts. In the Constitution, from preamble, through members of the president's authority, through members of the territorial integrity and independence of the state, all these members speak, and of course the existing legislation, that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. If so, what is the reason for such a proposal, or the reason for such a ministry? All other ministries have enough capacity to perform the functions provided for in this bill by the ministry, starting with the interior ministry, through the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and beyond. If this problem is approached from a factual point of view, it can also be seen that the existing ministries have quite enough capacity to perform the functions provided for by this draft law for the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, I would like someone from the newly formed parliamentary majority or from the future government to answer the question from which the Government will define itself on this matter. Because a government that does not respect formal access to its obligations violates the law, and a government that does not respect the actual state has no political sense of existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1015	The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1016	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I am very surprised that the Legislative Committee did not declare this amendment unconstitutional. If he could have already declared the unconstitutional amendment of the Verice Radete, which discussed the protection of our citizens in the Hague case, then it is not clear to me that this amendment, which is totally contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, has not been declared unconstitutional. What does the word "casamat" mean? It's Turkishism, and we all know it means prison. What's the difference between the Turkish casamat and the Hague casamat? None, because they were both Serbs in both, and in one cadium and the other, you're being sued by a cadium. It's just that in The Hague the tribunal, in the Hague case, nails are not buried under the fingernails, but it's done in a slightly more subtle way -- poison is inserted through the food, through the water, people are mentally killed. Just to remind you of how many of our people who committed suicide and how many died in The Hague. I see the difference between the Turkish and The Hague, and I really don't understand how the Legislative Committee could declare it an unconstitutional amendment. I am also surprised that by the same analogy this amendment is not declared unconstitutional when it is clear that in the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it states: " Starting from the fact that the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia's territory, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia and that from such a position of the province of Kosovo and Metohija follow the constitutional obligations of all state authorities... "and so on. So, the explanation of this amendment by Mr. Rangelovic is indeed insurmountable. The following is said: "According to the applicable legislation and the applicable international legal acts, the existence of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is both unnecessarily and unnecessarily. "Well, isn't even in Resolution 1244 Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of the SRJ, that is, the Republic of Serbia today? Here, unfortunately, is Mr. Ratkovic not to explain how this amendment has not been declared unconstitutional. In order for Kosovo and Metohija to exist as an integral part of Serbia, I will try to justify my thesis with historical facts. Byzantine Emperor Konstantin VII Porfirogenit, who ruled until 989, claims in his book on the regulation of the empire, which he dedicated to his son, that Serbs moved to the premises of Kosovo and Metohija, or the Balkans, in the 7th century. However, many other famous scientists and celebrities, such as Paule Josif Shafarik, claim that Serbs have moved even earlier. Well, since our historians have accepted this thesis of Byzantine Emperor Constantine VII, let it be that the Serbs moved into the 7th century. But that means ten centuries before Shipara, because the only and first written proof of the existence of Shipara in Kosovo and Metohija is the Turkish census. When the Turks won the Novo Brdo, which was then the economic and cultural centre of Kosovo and Metohija, 66 years after Kosovo's colour, then fell to Kosovo and Metohija. Five years later, Smederevo fell, as the then Serbian capital. That same year, Turks, known as pedantic people, made a list, a defaulter, that's what it was called, not to list the Serb population, but to cut off their taxes and haraks. There is no Shipatarian village in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in the list. There are only 2% of Shipara in that list in total in Kosovo and Metohija, on top of Djakovica, on the very border with today's Albania. The next Turkish census, held 55 years later, shows the exact same trend -- only 2% of the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija. Only later, in the villages, has a large number of Serbs moved away. The first village was, as you know, 1690 under Arsenija Charnojevic, our patriarch, and the second in 1773 under the patriarch Jovanovic called Shakabent. The Cypriots then moved slowly from poor Albanian parts. The Turks used the Cypriots as their fists for Serbia, according to central Serbia. They became bigger Turks than the Turks themselves and were their fists of impact. It is then that the more important settlement of Shipara in Kosovo and Metohija begins. Today we are talking about the ethnic law of Shipara in Kosovo and Metohija. That means they're calling for most. The majority were achieved by killing, exorcising, burning houses and estates and high birth, and especially by moving Shipar from Albania to Kosovo and Metohija. So there is, in fact, no ethnic law of the Shipara in Kosovo and Metohija. Another right in the history of mankind is much more important, and that is the historical right of a nation. This historical right contains the existence of state, state authorities in that territory, the existence of cultural heritage, cultural monuments, the existence of history and culture in that area. The Cypriots of all this have nothing in Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbs have everything. Let's just mention the state, for over 200 years, Serbia was ruled by Nemanjeci, only Nemnjici, a dynasty. The Serbs had a history of beginning with Kosovo's color, over a rebellion against the breaths, the First, the Second Uprising, the honorable role of Serbs in the First and Second World War, when Serbs freed the entire former Yugoslavia's space in the largest part. Serbs have and still have their cultural heritage today. About 1350 church monuments are only in Kosovo and Metohija, of which the Cypriots have destroyed 156 churches and monasteries. They destroyed all the Serbian cemetery. It's, I guess, the only nation in the world that's destroying another nation's cemetery. It's not recorded in mankind's history. All this says is that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral and inalienable part of Serbia. It's a territory that is unfortunately occupied today. But rest assured, if we have suffered the Turks for 500 years, we will suffer these, the Shiptars and their mentors, the Americans and the British and other NATO criminals, if it takes another 50 years, but we will certainly recover Kosovo and Metohija. Because justice is on the Serbian side, and justice always wins. She is slow, but she's always available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1017	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, it is obvious that my colleague Pelevic did not listen carefully and did not understand or want to understand what I was talking about. People who know him told me that he was a very smooth and educated man and that's why I really don't understand the term "indeed". Namely, the thesis on which my presentation was based and on which the proposal to delete Article 23 is based is exactly what counterpart Pelevic was talking about – according to official legislation, starting with the Constitution, Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Accordingly, he doesn't need to have a special ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1018	Mr. Pelevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1019	My colleague Rangelovic, thank you for your compliments, I do not need anything special, especially from members of your party. Anyway, I understand you very well. I also understood very well your chief's meetings in Pristina with the heads of the Ship's mafia, which today runs Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately. Believe me, I understand you very well, and I understand that you are the only party in Serbia who wants Kosovo and Metohija to become and remain an independent Albanian state. You are, after all, created for it, you are paid for it and you have to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1020	National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 23rd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Mr. Pelevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1021	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I have submitted an amendment because in Article 23 of this law, Serbian areas in Kosovo and Metohija are mentioned. I only ask that it be replaced by the words "Kosovo and Metohija", because one who separates Serb areas from non-Serb areas in Kosovo and Metohija makes high treason, i.e. the division of Kosovo and Metohija into a Serb and non-Serb part. As you know, Kosovo and Metohija have always been Serbian and will always be Serbian. We Serbs are ready to live with the Shiptars on a completely equal basis, but, as you know, they don't want it. We offered them autonomy such as no nation, no national minority in the world, but they wanted independence, not just now, but several decades, even a few centuries ago. What is important in this amendment is that it is contained only in one sentence. No point, no new order, no other sentence. This shows the relationship of the majority towards Kosovo and Metohija. I know that you gave up Kosovo and Metohija, I understand that, but there are also those Serbs who will fight for Kosovo and Metohija, not as declarative as your boss, who has mentioned Kosovo and Metohija less and less recently and will never admit... He used to do it all the time, especially in the campaign. Now it's very rare. That's the first thing. Secondly, this member of the law is completely unconstitutional. He's cutting with article 44. The Constitution of Serbia. In Article 44. The Serbian Constitution says: "Churches and religious communities are equal and separate from the state," and in your article 23, the state of Serbia is said to manage the functioning of the Serbian Orthodox Church. How is that possible? Maybe it's a technical mistake. It was likely necessary to write -- it will manage co-operation with the Serbian Orthodox Church. As you know, not only the SPC, but all other religious communities are completely autonomous and no one can manage them, they can only cooperate with them. As for the first part I spoke of, he is also in dissent with Article 8. The constitution, because there are no Serb areas. In Article 8. The constitution states: "The territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible." So, you're in one member, Mr. Ratkovic... In fact, the group that proposed this violated the drastic constitution, in connection with one of the most sensitive points today in Serbia, which is Kosovo and Metohija. I can't accept that. That's why I did it. The history of a nation is most talked about by cultural and historical monuments. Now I will show you some historical facts, i.e. facts from the cultural history of Kosovo and Metohija that Serbia is what is part of Kosovo and Metohija, that is, Kosovo is part of Serbia, because for me it is one and the same. Serbia is Kosovo, and Kosovo is indeed the heart of Serbia. There are exactly 1,994 monuments of Serbian cultural heritage in Cosmet. Of which 1,181 churches and churches, 113 monasteries and monasteries, 48 postcards, eight memorial chapels, totalling 1,350 religious buildings of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Cosmet. There are 534 Serb cemeterys. None of them are preserved, they're all half-panned, they're all down. I'm often in Kosovo and Metohija, I often visit both the north and the Serb enclaves, and I personally believe that. I even wrote a book about the cultural heritage of Kosovo and Metohija on the order of the Sinoda SPC. In particular, it should be pointed out that four Serbian monasteries from Kosovo and Metohija, after the decision of the UNESCO Committee on World Cultural Heritage, entered the world cultural heritage, and that in 2004, the Decani monastery, and in 2006, the Pećka Patriarchy, Gracanica and Bogorodica Ljeviška in Prizren. How many Shiplars have cultural monuments in UNESCO? I'm just talking about facts, and I'm talking about UNESCO data. They have a total of 38 cultural monuments. Of these are 35 ordinary towers, whose owners don't even know only three religious objects - liquids. The currents are religious objects so-called. Dervisa, but they were always so few represented among the Shiptars that they were a negligible part of the Shiptar people in Kosovo and Metohija. It is also important to say that all the monuments of Albanian cultural heritage were erected in the 19th century, and our monuments were erected from the 9th century to today. However, they tried to claim mosques as their cultural monuments. However, the Turkish government's energetic influence has prevented it. They're, by the way, famous for always wanting to adopt something else's. Thus, Skenderbeg, i.e. Djorge Kastriotic, who spoke Serbian and wrote with Cyrillic. It is also important to say that even in 11 towns in Cosmet, there is not one single monument to the culture of Albanian cultural heritage, the Shiparian cultural heritage. Not a single monument of culture. These are the following cities: Gjilane, Vučitrn, Podujevo, Klina, Serbs, Glogovac, Leposavic, Lipljan, Urosevic, Suva Reka, and in Pristina, Kosovo Mitrovica, Kosovo Kamenica and Vitini there is only one monument, and that third category. How, then, is it possible that a nation that has no trace of existence, no grave in that territory presupposes to be the owner of that same territory? Really, it's a nonsens. The answer is – those territories were kidnapped, Serbs expelled, killed, houses burned down, and then Tito's law came from March 6th 1945 and the Assembly passed a law banning the return of Serbs and Montenegrins to Kosovo and Metohija. Then came the events of 1979, 1981, the authority of the Shipara in Kosovo and Metohija and their university, the rebellion and, in the end, as you know, the bombing of Kosovo and Metohija and the last exodus of Serbs. That's their so-called so-called. ethnic law. There's no ethnic law. There's only exorcism, murder and kidnapping by the Shipar. That is why I think it would be really fair and correct for Serbs who have remained to live in Kosovo and Metohija and for those Serbs who have been internally displaced across Kosovo and Metohija and across Serbia to adopt this amendment and to pay greater attention to Kosovo and Metohija in this law. There is no word here on the restoration of Serbian cultural heritage. There is no word in your law on displaced people, no word about those who live on the edge of existence, about those who in Kosovo and Metohija every day worry about whether their children will live tomorrow or not. I urge all of you to adopt this amendment and amend the law in accordance with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1022	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Gordana Paunovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1023	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the coalition partner in the "yellow company" Mr. Mladjan Dinkic believes the insistence of the Republic of Serbia to oppose Kosovo and Metohija's independence is collective madness. I repeat, collective madness. Serbian citizens should know what Mladjan Dinkic thinks of them. What is the right for Mladjan Dinkic to insult, belittle, humiliate the people of Serbia and still try to make psychiatric diagnosis? This is a serious insult to the Serbian people. Mladjan Dinkic knows that Cypriot terrorists, as Mr. Pelevic used to say, expelled Serbian people, expelled hundreds of thousands of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, robbed, destroyed houses, cemetery, churches, monasteries, raped and killed Serbian people. The Democratic Party and G17 have earlier blamed Mr Milosevic, our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj and the Serbian Radicals. However, Serbian citizens know that Professor Vojislav Seselj went voluntarily to The Hague six years ago to defend the interests of the Serb people, and we hope they will soon defend them. The Serbian Radicals, unlike the ideologically unprincipled coalition and the future government, are patriots and nationalally defined; we are proud of that, and that is why half of the electoral bodies voted for the SRS in the previous elections. That is why in this distinguished parliament, the SRS is the most numerous party. And once again, I want to remind you that number 78 is larger than 69. The Serbian Radical Party, as an opposition, will insist on fighting for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija and will prevent further fragmentation and breaking of Serbia. If you do not accept this amendment by Mr Pelevic and remains such a formulation -- "in the Serb areas of Kosovo and Metohija", in a work relating to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, you will share Kosovo and Metohija in Serbian and Albanian areas, or indirectly recognise Albanian independence. As SRS Deputy President Mr Tomislav Nikolic said, this will not be possible in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1024	Thank you. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I must take the opportunity today to congratulate, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Radovan Nikolic and all Serbian delegates of the newly elected Kosovo Kosovo Assembly of Serbs, Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. How bold this member of the law is, as it is written, the fact that everything that Professor Pelevic was talking about is not acceptable to you... What do you say, Mr. Batic? Since you are the president, still, of this political party that is registered, and you have sought to persecute the villains and the Cypriot terrorists, the same ones with whom he greets, hugs and loves Boris Tadic, I assume you, as an honorable man, will also congratulate Mr Radovan Nicic, even though your party has not participated in the local elections, so there are no delegates. I wanted to say that it is humiliating for every Serb in Kosovo and Metohija to have such a provision, without the amendment proposed by Mr Pelevic, remain in the description of what this ministry should do. Not getting into who's going to be Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, and it's already been drawn and painted here... Your candidate for the ministry said on June 27th, ahead of Vidovdan, that he does not know, so he will see, so he did not get the list of "For European Serbia" enough seats, which is not true at all. Isn't that right, Mr. Kragovic? By proportion, as much as they won in the local elections, but in all municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian Radical Party list was strongly defeated. That's your problem, which is that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija only and most want the SRS, and then the DSS-NS coalition, as well as the SPS, and these democracies can be found somewhere, and this company G17, depending on whether they tried to buy some votes somewhere. It's a fact of fact. They are not any Serb areas in which Serbs live, it is the entire Serbian territory, it is an Autonomous province that is part of our territorial integrity. Not to mention, in the true sense of the words, by the Coordinator of the Democratic Party. Look out, Mr. Obradovic, these are those coordinators who replaced the Socialist Coordinators overnight. You know, when we had the adoption of a law, so at the deaf hour of the night Mr. Dacic appeared and acted rightly, the session was cut short, because all the SPS coordinators were replaced and these "yellows" were set up, and they were to Kosovo and Metohija as to last year's snow. After that, when they were elected, as the obvious people's will was seen, 268 polling stations in that percentage were defeated by the Serbian Radical Party. It is not only Kosovo Mitrovica and what some call it, the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija, but, what can I tell you, in the Gracanica-based municipality of Pristina of the total number of council members is almost 50% from the Serbian Radical Party. The same problem was experienced by Mr Dragutin Peric, who was prevented from entering and doing his job as the president of the municipality. It only took days because those who were used to serving both the Ship's Assembly and the Separatists, and those who were ministers, and now will serve at the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, were ministers in the Shiptar government, remember that. As soon as the so-called Hackerup constitutional framework, which was the predecessor of this quasi-sip constitution, was passed, we warned and called on Serbs (and from this booth was done by the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj) not to fall for this very dangerous game and these fine elections, that this would happen. You have on your list for MPs, i.e. on the list for Kosovo and Metohija, a man who would not get a few votes on his own, would not have his family voted for him either, you have self-proclaimed representatives of Serbs. Well, that one's gone into the mouse hole. One day when we're Mr. Professor. Pelevic, Mrs. Radeta, writer Brana Crncevic and my little bit on the way back from the Serbian Gracanica, visited the Banjska monastery, ran off with his head no matter when we came across. We shouldn't have looked at him at all, because who's going to look at such traitors and those who are being painted every day on Ustasha HRT 1. Have you seen if there is any show on that enemy state television towards our people, when the topic is Kosovo and Metohija and when the Shipatarian crimes are glorified, and Oliver Ivanovic is not a guest? I wouldn't be surprised if you gave him this generously, so he wouldn't be the minister of Kosovo and Metohija, but he could be the secretary of state, right? Now I'm warning this future minister and you from the ruling, newly created coalition not to joke with that question. So, people are quite legitimate, it is a community of Serb municipalities, we have called, the state of Serbia organised elections in Kosovo and Metohija, on Saturday, June 28th, at Vidovdan, at the Technical Faculty amphitheatre in Kosovo Mitrovica, educated and gave legitimacy to the assembly, whose president was elected Serbian Radical, Mr. Radovan Nicic. Mr. Marko Jaksic is one of the vice presidents and Srdjan Nikolic, also Serbian Radical, the second vice president. They'll work and act. Now they can do so in a building that is otherwise assigned to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija; we who go there know where it is and where these rooms are. They received several offices from Minister Slobodan Samardzic. But the future minister, the future finance minister and this prime minister and the future prime minister will have to make sure that they need the means to work, that they are doing it absolutely without any money, so volunteering, as they would say. Because it should have political weight and function. As much as we give here strength, they will gain it and protect our Serbian country. Not only will all Serbian radicals do it, but it will show who is who. If you are in the presentations, in addressing the people and in addressing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, giving encouragement to Mr. Nicic, or to the Serb assembly and delegates to fight, then you will see that you are truly sincere in that intention to respect the Constitution and that they are guarding our Serbian territory. You have not mentioned them in a single word, nor have you come out to congratulate them on their determination and insistence to keep what is ours through this political institution, which is Kosovo and Metohija. It's easy for you to admire and talk, to call us here, to say, so you're putting on a tape who's a bigger Serb, who's not. Take a look at this and imagine when you were there and when you, who have opportunities, provided assistance to Serbs and children from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1026	Thank you. He answered for the word, Mr. Marash, about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1027	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by Mr Pelevic only makes sense if it makes sense and everything that stands in this ministry's description. I will read only one part – the functioning of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija; education, health, social policy, culture, infrastructure, the system of local self-government and telecommunications in the Serb areas of Kosovo and Metohija, etc. And further – financial, legal, technical and staff assistance in all areas of importance for Serbs. It would be great if there were indeed the authorities of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, I think that the amendment submitted by LDP counterpart Rangelovic is not anti-constitutional and that there are many more grounds, for the simple reason that this ministry, which has functioned, has shown that it cannot do so in the future. But, Mr. Pelevic, you said some very difficult words. You said the Liberal-Democratic Party was designed to make the Shiparis have their own state. The Liberal-Democratic Party is made for a whole other reason, and such a single story can stand so much... I could do the same thing here, as you did yesterday, if my origin was in Kosovo, and my father was born down in Kosovo, but it doesn't give me the right to have such heavy qualifications as it was just... So it turns out that all those who do not follow your policy are traitors of this people and are ready to give Albanians a state in Kosovo. If you remember correctly, the last session of the last assembly session was held in the former Federal Assembly building. At that time, our president, which was the LDP's position, said the following things: that we are against every unilateral procedure, whether it comes from Pristina, whether from Belgrade. So we didn't support a unilateral declaration of independence because it's not a solution to the problem. All the time, since we were born in November 2005, we are talking about the same thing: the Serb living downstairs must be governed by the principle of "2 K" – consistency and consensus. So, all the time it's our policy when it comes to Kosovo. None of us wanted what happened. We have condemned the unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence by Pristina, and there is no need to accuse a political party with such heavy words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1028	Thank you. Mr. Shormaz answered his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1029	The Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia parliamentary group supports the amendment and will vote for it. I'd just like to add a few things to what Mr. Pelevic said. Perhaps he forgot, for example, one term that is absolutely appropriate for everything that happened during the 1999 NATO Pact bombing, I repeat again this second time today, even with forbidden weapons, bomb-rich uranium and cluster bombs -- that at that time, with the help of the NATO Pact, classical ethnic cleansing was done in Kosovo. And to this day, these temporary institutions that want to make a state do nothing to bring back displaced persons, i.e. citizens of mostly Serbian nationality, but there are also Roma, Gorans and members of other ethnic groups from Kosovo and Metohija who are not allowed today, there are over 200,000 of them to return to Kosovo and Metohija. The other thing that's very interesting is that in those dates you mentioned, you didn't mention one very important date. That's right, '45. And '80s, but it's very important in '74. and the adoption of the Constitution, when these two autonomous provinces were created. Some solutions from that constitution are being called today by some from this left, not left-wing but left-wing coalitions, because among them are some honest right-wing men I don't even know how they went astray. So one part of that left coalition would like that constitution to be in force, and even speak plainly, and that is what it stands for. Even one part of the Democratic Party that's from Vojvodina, which is more autonomous than that Chankova party... But, well, that's the two very important things to say. Why? Because what the bill says, and I'm looking at the promoter, is not and can't be a demographic term, because Prizren can't be an Albanian environment and Pristina can't be an Albanian environment, it's part of the Serbian state and it's not a demographic term. Do you even know how many Albanians, not born in the territory of the Serbian state, have settled in Pristina from western Macedonia or from Albania since 2000? They're not citizens of this country, they can't even be on the list. I personally attended, even two of your MPs who supported me in the last session, held a debate with Mr Riker about it; he did not want to tell us, in front of 70 European MPs, how many such persons are in the electoral list that they made and had an obligation to make it as UNMIK. Not a moment. It's not and it can't be a demographic term. You must adopt this amendment and there should be no revote. If necessary, this is such an important question, take a break, consult 122 MPs who signed it. I am convinced that there are also those on your side who will support it, because today we have found that there was obviously no reading at the time of signing this proposal, we saw it this morning in the case of a PUPS MP. If you don't think you have the authority to accept this amendment, take a break, it's an important question. We'll choose the government, don't worry, i.e. You will choose it, that left majority, we will vote against it. Please consult with the parliamentary groups and accept this amendment. You can't say it's a demographic term, because it can't be. A systematic multi-decade ethnic cleansing of the Serb people has been carried out in Kosovo, and this cannot be considered a demographic term or such a type of issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1030	Thank you. The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1031	Dear fellow Members of the People, it may seem to us that this is just a language slip and that this is irrelevant, but in the proposal for a law on the French Ministry, someone wrote something like this for Corsica, I believe that the public prosecutor would react and that whoever is behind it would be held accountable or declared a traitor. It's not just one language mistake, and we didn't react because we don't think it's in line with Serbian, but precisely because we're potentialing KIM as planned in the Constitution. Remember, if we were in a position to deal with Kosovo and Metohija in the preamble of the Constitution, then we must treat the southern Serbian province and this ministry law accordingly. We must never allow what Mrs Pesic wanted yesterday for this pay phone to get us through, related to the Ministry of Diaspora, when she said it was understandable that if the ministry survived at all in this law, she should deal with the issue or status of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. We can't go over these things that easily. Remember, who in Serbia ever called Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje the Presevo Valley? No one has ever, until the moment someone thought that part of Serbia should be slowly separated, found something common, whether it's a majority Cypriot population or something else, for an area that could connect to future independent Kosovo. We all know that the disintegration of Yugoslavia began by the Western forces thinking to start from Kosovo and Metohija, but at that point they were aware that it could not go through. They started from Slovenia, killing those innocent young soldiers, acknowledging, under the 1974 Constitution, the internal border as external borders, independence of one, another, third country. Then since 2000, you've let the SRJ fail, and you let Montenegro go like that, and she didn't have to. Neither Kosovo nor Metohija had to come into such a situation, people living there, no matter what nationality, ethnicity or religion, that we did not sign that plan Ahtisaari – Chernomidin. We were aware of what would happen after that. We were aware that Serbs should not go out to those Cyprus elections, but Tadic then called, and how, that they should be put to the vote. It is now these Serbian local elections downstairs that have shown that these Shiplar elections were unnecessary and that they should not have gone to the polls at that time. (President: Time. ) So, a series of mistakes were made, not by accident, I believe on purpose, because people who decided to do so were simply implementing the policy of some other forces that had interests in doing so. We here now appeal to the seriousness of this parliament not to allow in such an important law to recognise that there is a Serbian and non-Serb area in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1032	Professor Zoran Shami first called. Here you go. He gave up. Mrs. Kolundjia, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1033	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs very carefully examined the law of the previous government when proposing this law, especially when it comes to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. We took this formulation from the law, fully convinced that it was written by DSS representatives and Minister for Kosovo and Metohija from the DSS and that such a solution was found as the best solution. That's exactly why we took this form. Of course, this member of the law on the responsibility of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija unequivocally states that the task of this ministry is to implement a state policy to protect Serbia's territorial integrity, as well as respect for Resolution 1244. I really think that with full responsibility, while respecting the experience and knowledge that DSS representatives had in running this ministry and putting into the previous law, we literally transposed the formulation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1034	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Shami. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1035	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I also think Mr Pelevic's amendment should be accepted. Although I do not dispute that what Mrs. Kolundji said is true, it requires an additional story. The previous law of the previous government was made before February 17th, before Kosovo and Metohija declared independence. He had to be carefully balanced in order to do so, and then no one disputed Resolution 1244, the new government law fits into that. However, after Kosovo's declaration of independence on the territory of Serbia's sovereign state, I think it should change the formulation and stand – in Kosovo and Metohija. That's one thing, essential. The other can be said, in the end line, formally, if I ever did something wrong or said it, does that mean I should have that same attitude forever, or can I try... I guess we're trying to make as good a law here as we can. I do not like the wording in the proposed text of the law because of another thing, which has nothing to do with Kosovo and Metohija. What does it even mean that in some segment of its future government will deal with Serbian areas, I don't know which one? Does this mean that we will not deal with areas, for example, where in most Muslims or Hungarians, or every time we should mention it, we will deal with the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, I guess that is understood. That's why I was distracted by this wording of "Serbian areas". I think there is a drastic difference not only in this matter, and in terms of relations with the EU, which we have from the declaration of the false state of Kosovo and before that. We need to understand that some things change about that. I will personally support Mr. Pelevic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1036	Replica, Mr. Pelevic, and Mr. Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1037	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Kolundji, when preparing this amendment, I have studied the previous law and I have seen this mistake, however, I would like to add Mr. Shami to one thing. At that time, Kosovo and Metohija were not declared independent, then the false parliament of the false state of Kosovo did not adopt the false constitution of Kosovo and there was no Eulex mission, and as you can see, every day it talks about the mission and it will most likely take over the role of the UN in Kosovo and Metohija. I paid particular attention to this when I spoke of eradicating the terms, i.e. the words "Serbian areas in Kosovo and Metohija" and inserting what is most natural, which is -- Kosovo and Metohija. After all, above every law in this country is the Constitution. The constitution is the highest act and it must be respected, first of all. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1038	Please take Mr. Martinovic's word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must point out one inconsistencies by representatives of the ruling majority, and above all by representatives of the legislators of this law and the Legislative Committee. We heard yesterday the announcement that the amendment of the Witches is working on Article 3. The proposal for a law on ministries does not accept because the amendment allegedly contains words that do not comply with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia -- the Hague case. On the Legislative Committee, we heard from the proposing representatives that the word "kasmat" is colloquial, is not literary, it is not known about the legal system and that therefore the amendment of Mrs Verice Radete is advertised legally impossible. Now we're facing another phenomenon. Now a word is used which, strictly speaking, does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the Constitution considers the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In the towers, I heard some explanation of why the term "Serbian areas" was used, allegedly for some demographic reasons. But the demographics then had nothing to do with the territory, then you should have said that the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija would have special care to dedicate to Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. It is said to be a demographic problem, but when you say "Serbian areas", then it becomes disputable from the position of the Constitution, because the question arises whether Serb areas in Kosovo and Metohija are not those areas from which Serbs have been violently expelled, not only since 1999, but also since 1941, even before? Why could these areas not be treated as Serbian, only because there are no Serbs there temporarily, and they are not because they were victims of genocide, crime, persecution, mass murder, etc.? On the other hand, I remind you of another term that also, strictly speaking, is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is in the draft law on ministries. Mrs Pop-Lazic noticed it at the session of the Legislative Committee, or we talked about it, so I'll be free to say something about it. Let's say, Article 29. Proposal for a law on ministries – preparing, adopting, or proposing technical regulations: "The ministries in the framework of their work shall carry out the tasks of the state administration relating to the preparation, adoption or proposal of technical regulations. "I really haven't heard anywhere, and I haven't read anywhere the definition of what technical regulations are. Are these regulations about how roads are built, how bridges are made, how cherry is picked, what are technical regulations? So you reject Mrs. Verice Radete's amendment where one word is used that is absolutely not unconstitutional, which is not even rude, is even massively used in literature - the case. You say it's not in accordance with the Constitution. Then you break the Constitution yourself and say - only some areas in Kosovo and Metohija are Serbian and some are not. Then use the term "technical regulation". So I draw attention to you too, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, to the complete inconsistency of the Legislative Committee and the representative of the ruling coalition in this National Assembly. One must take a stand which is colloquial, which is not colorokial. If the Colloquial is a "Haski Kazamat", it is only a Colloquial "Serbian areas in Kosovo and Metohija" when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia treats Kosovo and Metohija as a Serb area, i.e. the territory of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. That is why this amendment, Mr Borislav Pelevic, should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1040	National MP Dejan Mirovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 23a be added after article 23. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Pelevic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1041	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to article 26. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I quote attitude 1: "The first session of the committee is convened by the president of the National Assembly. "Ma'am President, you have so far called over a dozen committees, which have already been established. I believe that all committees are really important and cannot be done without them, such as the important Administrative Committee, the Legislative, the Justice Committee, etc. You have not yet called, for the sake of constitution, the committee that is most important at the moment, which is the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I think all the other committees can wait, especially some committees that, for example, have been established today, and that this committee should be scheduled as soon as possible. Knowing you as a patriot, as well as Secretary Veljko Odalovic, I know very well, we even cooperated, helped me with the list of missing from Kosovo and Metohija, I suggest that this committee be scheduled as soon as possible. I will ask that the Committee be in a permanent session, given the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. What does a permanent session mean? This means that the sessions will be held at least twice a week, but at least two sessions a month must be held on the ground, in Kosovo and Metohija, because the board has nothing to look for in Belgrade, its work in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. That is why we will try to open the Committee offices in Kosovo Mitrovica, Gracanica, Strpc, Gorazdevec, and wherever possible, because it is very important that Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija see that the highest body of this state, the National Assembly, through its Committee on Kosovo and Metohija on the spot take care of the interests of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and of Kosovo itself and Metohija as an inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. The committee should be a sort of control of the ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. The board's supposed to be a pandan of that ministry. As a member of the board, which unfortunately has not yet been established, I will seek not only to control the work of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, but to do everything in our power to get Kosovo and Metohija under the authority of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1042	When it comes to the constitution of the committee, as soon as agreement is reached regarding the post of president and vice president, which is precisely on parliamentary groups, of course I will call a constitutional session. Thanks for the suggestion. The word is Mr. Arsic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it will now be almost eight years as we warn you of certain things. Many of the things we've warned you about have already happened, so just learn your senses once and accept that what we're telling you is not for you to be well, but for the citizens of Serbia to be well, no matter who's in power. My colleague, Dejan Mirovic, submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to be followed by Article 23. The draft law on ministries adds a new member of 23a, i.e. to form a ministry of integration under the law on ministries with Eastern European, Slovenian and Orthodox countries. Now here we have the content of this Article 23a, I will not quote an entire member: "The Ministry of Integration with Eastern European, Slovenian and Orthodox countries performs the tasks of state administrations relating to the initiation, monitoring, coordination and reporting of the integration and co-operation process with Eastern European, Slovenian and Orthodox countries; the preparation of a national strategy to regulate the process of integration and co-operation with Eastern European, Slovenian and Orthodox countries in the areas of economic, political and cultural relations", etc., and all for the development and implementation of projects for the construction of pipelines whose inter-state agreement between the SRJ Government and the Russian Federation of 1996, as well as other tasks of a certain law. So, all the time since October 5th, that is, since you came to power, you've been trying to convince Serbian citizens that they can be well only if they are under the auspices of the European Union. But Europe is also in one part, at least in terms of the economic part, extremely divided. There is the EU, but there is also the Eastern European, Slovenian, Orthodox part, which is not entirely under the influence of the EU. And not only has it not fallen, it has become an extremely significant partner of the EU in all foreign trade affairs, so I ask the question of how is it not a good Russian Federation as a partner to you, when it is good to the European Union? The EU's largest exports are placed on the territory of the Russian Federation. How come we don't find such a market interesting, ladies and gentlemen MPs, you from the ruling majority? Of course, that co-operation goes both ways, not like with us -- one-way. The Russian Federation is the largest exporter of energy in EU territory, and that is the two-way co-operation we are trying to force you to do when it comes to the EU. So, on the one hand, you promise us some European integration all the time, and all those friends of yours from the EU keep hitting your pucks, you have to do this, you have to do this, you have to do this, you have to go over there, you have to go there. Here, let's touch the political issues of Kosovo and Metohija. They are already warning you that there is nothing of the EU's accession agreement, and of nothing else, unless you recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. I now hear that some who support this new assembly majority are pleading against The Hague tribunal and want to co-operate with the EU. The European Union also sets you up as a condition for co-operation with The Hague tribunal. You are lying all the time to the citizens of Serbia, the majority (which, however, in every election is smaller and smaller), and that is your problem, as long as you go through with those lies. Why does this amendment have to be accepted? We talked a little bit about those political reasons, let's do a little bit more about this economic. The amendment should be accepted for the reasons that our economies are compatible with each other, because we have what to produce and sell in the territory of the Russian Federation and other Eastern European and Slovenian countries, unlike the EU markets that are for us and how closed, unaccessible and burdened with various administrative and other problems. I have to say that since 5 October, when you brought your tycoons through crisis headquarters to a large number of businesses (some of these companies are still being held social, some are state-owned), your associates and friends are often in the leading posts; when they are offered some job from the Russian Federation and when they start to realize this job they ask us why they ask us to abide by their standards that their countries prescribe when it comes to the quality of some kind of goods. On the other hand, when it comes to the EU, where standards and regulations are much stricter, where our price is much lower due to the achievement of quality and these standards, these jobs accept your tycoons, whether we have profit or not, at the cost of loss. That's how you treat the market. If someone doesn't believe in this, they'd better explain it to the gentlemen of the Chamber of Commerce than I do. I'm just passing on their experience when it comes to this. So, by accepting co-operation with Eastern European countries, and most thought of the Russian Federation, multiple economic effects would be achieved for Serbia. First, Serbia would in that case increase foreign trade exchange and reduce the external trade deficit you have been pushing us into since you came to power. Secondly, Serbia would finally solve the energy problem, thus reducing the need for importing such raw materials into the Republic of Serbia's market. When it comes to the European Union, gentlemen, it helps you when the elections are discussed -- whether for the President of the Republic, whether for the Republic's parliament. Then they help you by signing agreements with you, agreements, along with you threatening Serbian citizens what will happen if you lose in the elections. And you're the only one who has reason to be afraid of what happens if you lose the election, because your bosses are probably going to end up doing something a little abroad, something's going to move around the fireman, but good. Just remember, then, the European Union... Those promises, a little fear, a little gift, of course, to get results in the election, believe it won't be possible for that long, you won't be able to lie to the citizens of Serbia for much longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1044	Thank you. Mr. Momir Markovic picked up the phone. I am holding a constitutional session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija for 18.30, given that we had an agreement, a candidate for the Committee president informed me that an agreement has been reached between the SRS and the DS. Now I have information that it has been done, so here, the conditions for this session to be held, at the suggestion of Mr Pelevic, at 6:30 p.m. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind the Serbian public that in a period before "the bulldozer of the revolution", before you introduced these European standards, the state with the Russian Federation signed a contract by which, other than 0.5% of the "paper" costs, so the costs related to import and export papers, goods from Serbia could go to the Russian Federation; therefore, it would immediately be 20% cheaper on the market there. Of course, as soon as you won power, as soon as you introduced crisis headquarters, as soon as you rode Serbia, you didn't think to further develop your relationship; you turned to the bosses in Europe, you turned to those who funded you. It is now normal for you to propose to reject an amendment submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, asking for the establishment of a ministry of integration with Eastern European, Slovenian and Orthodox countries. Also, you don't care what raw materials for the entire Serbian economy are located in Eastern European countries, which is the energy we need also in Eastern European countries, which is the market for all products that we can produce here in Eastern European countries, China, India, Latin American countries. You turned to the West, who we could take out, here, the raspberries, the blackberry, in about fifteen days when it started to look, and that's all. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to all these ministries that you have provided for in this law opens the door for co-operation with the Russians. All ministries will find part of the job in Russia: the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of Finance as well. The Ministry of Finance... However, it is now otherwise called in this proposal - economics and regional development. Well, Mladjan Dinkic started you there, in that bank, it seems to me to be called Euroaxis Bank, Hamovic Bank and Lazarevic. Mladjan Dinkic immediately after October 5th, after removing his stocking from his head and postponing Kalashnikov, transferred $50m of foreign reserves to Serbia's Euroaxis Bank. That's the money that came after that to build the National Savings Bank. These are the money that has been cashed in by 7200 square metres of the highest quality business space given on a gift to the National Savings Bank when Hamovic, Lazarevic and Dinkic and I don't know who else, in fact, I know, a few more of them, shareholders, have become very sick of Serbia, but they have become fat. So, if they want to, they can go that way, but, of course, they have to come back and question things a little bit. By the way, should I ask a parliamentary question – is there still 50m dollars in the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, so Lazarevic and Hamovic, of the Republic of Serbia's foreign reserves, that is, the National Bank of Serbia, or have those funds been withdrawn? I suggest that you adopt an amendment that opens up incredible opportunities for Serbia's development in the voting day and that this ministry is being engaged. Otherwise, you'll miss one ministry to patch up those deals of yours and open another ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1046	Thank you. Ambassador Mico Rogovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1047	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few minutes ago from this pay phone one amazing fact was presented. An explanation of the applicant's representative tells us how much he is a member of 23. Proposal for a law on ministries important for this left-hand side, i.e. representatives of the already existing coalition, i.e. the authorities. In her statement, the lady said that they had not even touched this law, but that they had allegedly copied the entire article 23 from the previous law. Just for the sake of the Serbian public, I would like to point out, in addition to all the previous things highlighted by these speakers, that in the last paragraph of this article on the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, the text contains the following: "maintaining constant international contacts with participants in the international negotiation process on determining Kosovo's future status and Metohija". What future status is this of Kosovo and Metohija? Isn't the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia a decidently defined territory of our republic? Is this the kind of thing that I'm proposing, and that's what citizens need to know, and that's why I came out to answer, can happen? Whether it was a failure sooner or now, let the citizens evaluate it. We can't really participate in such proposals. It is likely that citizens today read a daily newspaper where, among other things, because of the victory of the Serbian Radical Party and the People's Coalition in Kosovo and Metohija, the president of the Republic is likely to appoint a non-essential figure from political life as minister for this ministry, and in time this thing will be forgotten. We don't just do reading our books. A book written by the leader of a party that slowly disappears within the framework of this ZES coalition states that since 2000, the political peak of Serbia has been asking world powers to take away Kosovo and Metohija and solve our problems. After all, if you'd written this law, gentlemen, it would probably have been here to co-operate with Eulex. You've forgotten that, and that's proof that you haven't even looked at that article. In addition, some political groups that have encrypted military operations in their composition two years ago began their campaign by not being interested in Kosovo and Metohija. And those parties that are now supporting this majority, which have been created over the last few years, are also using what I have already mentioned in my campaign. To me, all of this seems like time, Mr. Odalovic probably knows it, when in politics in the state, at the time SFRY, he played Sinan Hasani. Serbia needs to know, and the voters of the Serbian Radical Party, we wake up and go to dreams with Kosovo and Metohija in the heart, and with all Serbian territories.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1048	On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1049	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24 that regulates the relationship between the Serbian Orthodox Church and the state, the relationship between the SPC and the Ministry of Religion, defines a partnership and strategic relationship, but not at the expense of smaller religious communities. In fact, this amendment does not promote the SPC as a state church, as it exists in Greece, England, but this amendment only wants us to be the first amongst the equals, in that sense to paint a picture on the ground. The Serbian Orthodox Church has long been founded in the Serbian people; since the Serbian state, at the time of Nemanjic, via Obrenovic, Karadzic, has always been a strategic partner of the government. I can say that she was a strategic partner of Milosevic, who even returned to Serbian Orthodox Church land confiscated after World War II. For this reason, I expect the SPS MPs to vote in favour of this amendment that I have submitted. Another thing I've been meaning to say, in the last five years, there have been no more temples restored than in the last 50 years. That we didn't take care of whether it was Orthodox temples, whether it was mosques or Catholic temples. The important thing is that something's started. I also expect the future government to help you build certain temples. But what scares me is that DS and G17 are plus. Proposers of the law reterited from their stance, derogated their decision and threw out these words "Serbian Orthodox Church". Which is why, day and day, we don't get it. Maybe it's Uncle Sam's decision across the bar, maybe it's a political decision, but the fact is that's it. In that sense, I will accept the words of my friend Mr. Dragan Shormaz, a party colleague, who said that the future socially responsible government will deal only with European integration, and will by no means deal with national interests, will not deal with Kosovo, will not deal with religious and national feelings, but will leave it at the margins. So I ask all of you here to accept this amendment, because the amendment speaks of that the Serbian Orthodox Church should be a strategic partner of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1050	Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1051	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, I am not answering this time because of Mrs. Komic, but I will definitely mention her later. I filed an amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party. In Article 24, after the word "co-operation with the state", the word "traditional" is added, and after the word "registration" the word "traditional" is added. We saw, they accepted, the other refused. My amendment is in line with the Serbian Radical Party's view that the state must make a clear distinction between traditional religious communities and numerous religious sects that, unfortunately, are doing in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and are causing great damage in various areas of social life. According to the 2002 census, as many as 95% of Serbia's population have declared to be believers. Of these 95% of the few prominences were believers of some new religions or sect-type organisations, as defined in the world today, especially in sect victimology, and they have yet to be recommended to be admitted one day. We haven't had a law on churches and religious communities for a long time, not even since 1993. We brought it in 2006. The law that has been passed is not very happy, however, it can pass. The previous ministry, when he was a writer at his head, had the chance to clearly, very seriously and finely define this problem that threatens us as a cancer wound and a new pandemic that rules the world, to protect us from all that we are experiencing right now in Serbia, but it did not take advantage of it. The Constitution says, for example, Article 43 states: "The freedom of thought, conscience, conviction and religion is guaranteed, the right to remain in their belief or belief or to change them according to their own choice. Parents and legal parents have the right to provide their children with religious and moral education according to their beliefs. "This is point 14. The Charter of the Rights of the Child. It's nice that she entered this member of the Constitution. Do those who sit in ministries, especially religion, police, health, education, allow us to have the absolute freedom that the Constitution allows us to do? No, I don't. It's just that what we've been getting here as a proposal is just a list of good wishes, nice and well summed up, but especially since 2000, since DOS came to power, this ministry is literally left to itself, and it's always downplayed that it can't do anything to prevent certain organizations from doing our country, especially if it can't co-operate with other ministries or other institutions in the world. Currently, a convention organised by FECRIS is being held in Cyprus. FECRIS is a Federation of European Centres for Protection and Information on the functioning of the sect; 27 countries are members, 48 associations. In 2005, FECRIS became the advisory body of the Council of Europe on sects. I note this because I want to say that Europe has been doing things that have been doing some things since 2000. So, in 2000, the Commissioner or Minister of the Ministry of Faith was the wife of the gynaecologist, and then came the free builder. I say a free builder because he's an architect, a protomist, a performer and a subcontractor at the temple of St. Sava. He is at least an expert in the question of religion and the work of religious communities. After him came a writer, whom I mentioned earlier, and then an electric engineer. You notice, more and more expert than the expert on this matter. Especially when it compares how Europe does it. What I'm saying is that neither this Ministry nor the rest of the departments who are supposed to follow him and who were supposed to support the law on churches and religious communities through the Criminal Law, the health law, the Education Act, did it in an adequate way. Then it really is a missed big chance. We've had a chance to see in the last few years that when there's a problem of people sitting in the Ministry of Faith, they're not doing anything, like, what happened in New Market. We're currently having a fight with three currents among the residents of the Muslim religion. When the Wahhabis appeared and destroyed those instruments at a concert in Novi Pazar, no one went to talk to them. After a while, they were sent in Special Forces, chased around the mountains, and shot at each other. One of the officers was wounded, and one of the Wahhabis was killed. Does this mean that we will have to regulate our feelings and the right to freedom of opinion and religion in various ways without the Ministry doing its job? Here, and now we have this case that the Legislative Committee has accepted the amendment, and the Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted it. That's exactly what reflects the situation on the ground. What's going on? It happens that courts, social work centres, cry out for help. I personally artificially helped to skill out several centres for Serbia's country's social work and witnessed several processes. No one wants to make any convention that will help educate these people so that they can judge as easily as possible in certain processes that have emerged through the problem of sects. Some of it is the problem of social pathology, among other things, the divorce of marriages, whose children... Not to mention behavioral disturbances, partially altered consciousness, permanently altered consciousness, etc. Since I had the honour of meeting Mrs. Comić these days and setting up a very serious and nice collaboration at the beginning... I did, Mrs. Comic. I hope that your great experience in parliamentary work will help me as a member of the Committee on European Integration, and you are the chairman of that committee, to finally introduce to this country the real values that we should offer to our population, not something that has been imported for the last eight years and which is closest to social radioactive waste. What is being promoted through certain NGOs involved in pro-zelite, or missionary work, which poisons our youth, and even older people around the country in Serbia, what is offered through the media, what is offered by bus stations, by hospitals, does not reflect by the markets a picture of what is written here in the Constitution, does not reflect the state and desire of certain European institutions dealing with this problem, so... I've received information through certain documents that you're the chairman of this committee. I apologize, there will be others who will help me in this work, to really bring positive legislative solutions that we will adapt to our conditions and implement in our legislation, and for the sake of a better and happier life for the people of Serbia. Spiritual health is a resource that needs to be protected. I don't just know what's funny, sir, from what I've said. Believe me, there are only two counselling centres in the country of Serbia, and none are state-owned. A hundred people arrive at both counselling centers on average. Believe me, your colleagues come and bring their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1052	I thank you, Miss Natasa Jovanovic answered for the word, and then it was you, Milica Vojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1053	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I'd like to speak to you from DS and G17, because Mr. Chikiriz and Mr. Chotric really sat down all day, thank you for having gathered, you have something wise to hear from us, and we're going to be working tonight by 10:00, and it's nice that you came to hear our arguments in this final session today. Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević, because of his modesty, did not want to say anything more about what he was dealing with; there are countless publications he wrote along with colleagues who deal with the appearance of one of the greatest monsters, besides drug abuse, which are religious sects in our country. In any case, he also made a big contribution to us Serbian Radical Party MPs when we had the argument until five o'clock in the morning to discuss the Law on Church and Religious Communities two years ago. He's right to react, especially because this is a serious thing that you can't and can't go over so easily. When we passed the law on basic education, the first one, which was later amended and supplemented, I had to get out of the assembly bench, remembers that Mrs. Pop-Lazic, to explain to Cedomir Jovanovic that if an amendment to Article 9. Dragoljub Stamenkovic, an SRS MP, will experience a major problem in Serbia, if it does not taxally list what traditional religious communities are, because it was the basis, that member of the law regulated the introduction of religious teaching into our schools. I just told him, he wasn't married then and he didn't have any children – tomorrow your child, God forbid, any child, or any parent (at the time he was such an ossion and the head of the parliamentary group, and later on, the vice president of the government) and to tell you, did you let sectators like Mormon and Jehovah's Witnesses, Baptists and not pick them up on religious instruction at our school? If he had remained such a member of the law, it could have really happened. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we Serbian radicals did not insist so much that seven traditional religious communities in our country were precisely counted, which are: the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Islamic Religious Community, the Jewish community, the Slovak Church AV, the Christian Reformist Community and the Evangelist Christian Church, would be a complete chaos. This is a matter that is very serious and because of the fact that there are sectarian centres of power in our country. Belgrade is one of the larger, and even, unfortunately, both Kragujevac and Novi Sad. We failed to convince then Minister Radulovic that in Article 3. The bill, where it is allowed to register a religious organization based on a certain number of allegedly existing believers, and what is strange, both for our Serbian Orthodox Church and for all of these listed traditional religious communities, an unacceptable concept... You see what the intentions of this Crucifixion of Dedejic are in our country and what the intentions of others who are attacking both our churches and the seats of our dioceses. It happened to me, believe me, that God forgives me, that in the middle of Kragujevac, in the middle of the forest, these advocates of religious sects, and each of them, of course, is destructive and social, dared to address the priest of the Serbian Orthodox Church. You have a situation that in Belgrade, I think it's happening 20 metres from here, from a building in King Milan 14, a couple of Mormons appear. This one came from America, from the state of Utah, where it's usually their headquarters because all of them are 20 and a change of millions, they're all Mormons. He's still saying he's of limited origin and he's told to come here, etc. to turn the Serbs. These are very dangerous things. I now have to tell you why your obligation is both moral and if, as citizens of Serbia, you are taking care of both our nation and the members of other traditional religious communities in our country, to prevent this and to adopt this amendment proposed by Mr. Mijaljević. He's not unknown to you, he may be a folk MP, but there's countless shows on state television and on other televisions where he's spoken for hours and hours about how it has to be solved in every legal provision like this and said, traditional and even listed. Let me just go back for a moment when we had here in front of us... It seems to me that it was the 20th and some October two years ago, because a new Serbian constitution was declared at Mitrovica on 8 November. We entered the hall here and, as Mr Tomislav Nikolic worked all night with that task force, when we opened a defined proposal for a constitution, we saw that in article 44, the fourth position was left out, where traditional religious communities should be listed. We were then justified by certain government ministers – because it was probably a general national consensus, the adoption of this constitution, which was only against this LDP, but who cares – and we were told that a technical nature error was made, but that in any future law that regulates the attitude of the state and the religious communities would stand the word "traditional" and that they would be numbered. You now see if you are responsible people, if you lied then, if you are now thinking about what will happen to us tomorrow, with our children and how we will protect all members of traditional religious communities when in Serbia, and when in a state that is and in terms of the existence of intelligence services... I want to tell Mr. Todorovic that I mentioned this quasi-weekly today because it is another agent in Serbia, she, Mr. Todorovic, who confused you with that Todorovic from Lozovic, there at the Great Plan, and published on the cover that you are a minority multimillionaire, etc. I strongly recommend that you do as the law and the law tell you to do. I believe in the urgency of the courts and they'll do it nicely. Of course, I said this ironically because I know about those processes you run earlier. But, anyway, think about it. Maybe you didn't pay attention, maybe you think this is just some sort of technical matter. Believe me, it's not. After all, if you look at the Law on Churches and Religious Communities... In the end, I don't know what time of night it was, we agreed and then almost all the political parties voted for it. As for Dr Krkobbic and the United Pensioners of Serbia, the important issue of pensions, which they apostrophe, is so important to them that their children and their grandkids are not used, God forbid, by some religious sect, as well as to all of us here and anyone who thinks in a healthy and normal way. Not to be told by Mrs. President (of course, for ethical reasons he can't do it) how much he must help people and our Kragujevac, as one of the best experts, to people who are so perverse, and these are, be assured, the most common children.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1054	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1055	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it seems to me that now, after two amendments which have practically responded to the same thing, we have come to a point where we can open a fine debate on which of these amendments is more acceptable and which should fix this law. A few minutes ago, Mrs Nada Kolundzija said that in the case of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, they consulted the text of the previous law, which is quite all right. I also see that when it comes to this, the Ministry has consulted such a text, i.e. it is prescribed, with something being left out. Here it is written – the co-operation of the state with churches and religious communities and the improvement of their position. The text that has been consulted, therefore, in the text that was brought during the second government of Vojislav Kostunica, stands a very precise provision -- with the Serbian Orthodox Church. So, it seems to me that the moment Mr. Pejcic submitted the amendment, which of course is not contrary to what Mr. Mijaljević said, but it seems to me that it is isolated and the Serbian Orthodox Church should be singled out, I think it is a more precise provision. To be clear, during the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, a law on religious communities and churches was passed. In this law it is very precise that these are traditional religions, of course not taxed, but it is very precise, and then we had the consent of all religious communities and traditional churches in the territory of Serbia. So they agreed and supported the law. The colleague Jovanovic remembers and stated that we discussed finessees that night until 5 a.m.; I think it was one of the best congregation discussions ever held. At that time, the large parties, the SRS, the DSS, supported the law, but I remember there was a terrible amount of resistance from some of the parties that are currently making up this coalition for vassal Serbia. What I don't like, and I don't think it was accidentally left out, is that it left out the very Serbian Orthodox Church. I don't know who's making this a problem. So, the Democratic Party of Serbia really has nothing against any other religion; in this law on religious communities, we have practically given everyone the opportunity to co-operate very equally with the state and to partner with the state in Serbia's territory, but we think it is wrong for Serbia to be the only one who cannot be a partner, and the only one who disturbs this proposal to be the Serbian Orthodox Church. I remember at the time of the TV campaign, we saw that President Tadic was attending Christmas liturgy in the Kosovo monastery. I see he's visited a sick patriarch several times. It seems that for campaign purposes and everything else, it's fine. I don't see what's wrong and I don't see why all churches are the only ones left out of the Serbian Orthodox Church. It seems to me that we have a situation here that's not good because 70% of people here are Orthodoxly defined and I don't think it's right to take away their right to religion because it's one of the basic rights that every human being has in the human rights corps. So I think it's time to open this debate. We both made arguments, and I think we should hear the arguments that left out the particulars – the Serbian Orthodox Church and the traditional church. We need to clarify that because it's very important and I think it should be clear to every citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1056	Thank you. The title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as you know, we in the Serbian Radical Party are in favour of changing the name of the Diaspora Ministry and that it is what it used to be -- the Ministry of Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. It was in the amendment to Article 2 well explained by my fellow MP, Milorad Buh. I have submitted an amendment to the title above article 25 and Article 25, which, among other things, is required, as in the amendment to Milorad Buha. The Serbian Radical Party is seeking one more thing with this amendment, which is that another one is added to the description of jurisdiction, so that the following is added to the work of the ministry, which is - the recording of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad for the introduction of special voter records abroad. As we have stated in the light of this amendment, we believe it is necessary for the state, in addition to a formal plot, to take certain concrete steps to involve citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad in Serbia's political life. One who was a member of the assembly elected in December 2003 may remember that one of the first legislative proposals we discussed here was the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, which gave the right to our people living outside our country to vote in our embassies, i.e. to vote abroad. The idea, at the time we said it, was not controversial, but at the time we insisted that the concept, at the very least, was unspeakable, unaccountable and that in practice it could be difficult to implement in a serious way. This proved to be true after several election cycles, how long we had since that year 2004 when these amendments of the law came into force. The basic problem, according to us from the Serbian Radical Party, lies right in registering voters. There are some other things in this law that are not the subject now, such as the formation of election committees, the conduct of elections, etc., but the very basis of the problem is to register voters. Why? According to certain data abroad, there are over two million Serbs and in general citizens of Serbia, and some 50,000 were registered for the elections. The state can't just declare itself in favour of something, it has to take responsibility for such a thing and implement it in practice. The state must fight to make use of this right as many of our people abroad as possible. I'm not going to get into why that is, there's a lot to talk about, a lot of reasons why the state is uninterested, and on paper it's given such a right. So she needs to be interested and take this job seriously. One such jurisdiction of the Diaspora Ministry would create conditions for the state to deal with this business more seriously. It is not enough to write – the diaspora ministry is working to improve the conditions for achieving the electoral right of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad, etc. That's why we're looking for one of these formulas that would go into the bill, become an integral part of it, which would allow this state body to systematically deal with this business because it will enable closer ties with our people living abroad. Like I said, I think the responsibility of the state here is undeniable. There's no reason that a government so designed, with so many ministries, can't cover this mission and this job. That same Article 25, which I have submitted to the amendment, states that the state, that is, this ministry should create conditions for the return of some of our people to the Republic of Serbia. This coincides with the famous sentence of your former leader Zoran Djindjic, directed by Karli del Ponte, and refers to Vojislav Seselj and who knows how many more of our people, who read – take him away and do not return him to Serbia. I understood this as your abandonment and a deviation from your former leader's politics. I urge you to accept this amendment in the voting day in order to at least improve the text of this bill a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1058	Thank you. Here you go. I haven't seen you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday we had an amendment that tried to fix in a formal sense I am the term of this ministry. We asked that, instead of the Ministry of Diaspora, a language-legal term be established that corresponds to both the Constitution and other sublaws that regulate this area, which is that this ministry is called the Ministry of Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. It has a foothold in the sublegal acts, i.e. in our Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which has established a Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia in its provisions, and in this direction, that dualism should be corrected. Unfortunately, you probably won't do it, and you won't accept this amendment. A fellow MP, Zankov, tried to build in the responsibilities of this ministry some of the activities of the poor formulation you predicted, which you probably won't correct. It is very important that this area be upgraded, not only with these initiatives that you have by the SRS, but that you completely change character, not just the work of the ministry, but all the necessary things about the work of this ministry. Yesterday I realized you don't have legislation in this area. Why is she necessary? It is necessary to establish the jurisdiction, rights and obligations of all entities operating in this area, from the republican authorities, various state bodies that should work to establish far more intimate relations and ties in the areas of economic, financial, cultural, sports and any other co-operation between Serbs in the queen and Serbs in the diaspora. We don't have that regulation, nor do you think about it. On the other hand, we don't have a strategy to improve these relationships and relationships. The strategy gives some direction to improve relations in economic, financial, economic, cultural, sports co-operation, etc. Why is that necessary? It is necessary to know what the individual body will do and what it is obliged to do, to establish the basic parameters of the cooperation, to know the date when what will happen in this direction, to see from which sources funds will be provided for the work of those bodies. It is necessary to provide financial resources to improve the co-operation. The local self-government, I said yesterday, pays far more attention than the republican authority, or this ministry. This ministry doesn't even have personnel. All twenty people work in that ministry. They don't have a legal basis, they don't have a development strategy, they don't have an operational plan of activity, etc., there's nothing. It's a dead letter on paper. This ministry can't work like that. The local self-government does far more than this republican body does. They connect both sports and culturally, come for religious holidays here, go there, develop a number of forms of co-operation, connect economically, provide all the preconditions for people who work abroad to come here and, by their expertise, to advance municipalities, that the funds they have achieved there can be placed in the area of the municipality, etc. Far more should this ministry do, but unfortunately nothing by the republican authorities, or authorities, especially by the five-octobarians, who should have done far, far more. They have a ministry, but they haven't promoted it, they haven't created a material technical prerequisite for doing what it was founded for in this ministry. It is important to stress that our countries abroad are subject to assimilation in both language and religious terms. Our country does nothing to stop it. How to prevent that assimilation? In particular, it is dangerous for young people, among professional people who adopt all modern materials of information, technology, technical industry and thus separate themselves from the Serbian root, from Serbian being and lose everything that is a feature of Serbia and Orthodoxism, our culture and our customs, our tradition. That's why, and that's exactly why this ministry needs to work the most. But if the ministry has no personnel, no finances, no operational plans, we expect nothing, they won't do anything. All this that the Serbian Radical Party is telling you you don't respect. You've been going over all of our amendments the way you've been doing in the last eight years, not respecting attitudes, not respecting our opinions. That's how your power will end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1060	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1061	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, by respecting your time, I will try to be as brief as possible and sum up our amendment. I do not believe that there are enough financial, economic, strategic and other reasons that there is a special ministry of diaspora within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because all these jobs can be done in the framework of the regular affairs of the state administration carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, if necessary, the Ministry of Culture or the new Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. At the same time, the impact of the existing diaspora ministry was very weak and in line with the serious financial expenditures of the budgets intended to work on the ministry. The most convincing example of weak labour effects by the special ministry of diaspora are statistical indicators of the participation of Serbian citizens from the diaspora in the election process in the previous elections when the negligible percentage of eligible citizens has taken advantage of that right in the elections. For these reasons, we believe that the proposed amendment should be adopted, so that we have some ministry less in this socially responsible government and thus allow Russia or the EU to have more ministries than Serbia. Just one general opinion for the end: I think it would be good to find strength in the congregation's majority to break the tradition of rejecting amendments, well-timed amendments, from the opposition's ranks, to introduce a partnership in relation to the government and the opposition, which so far has been non-existent and denied to Serbia and its citizens. At least we in the LDP would then feel somewhat less of the pressure to expect one-way co-operation in parliament when it takes some help with the quorum. I think there are enough good amendments here; it would be good to change that atmosphere and establish some relationship between the authorities and the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1062	I thank Mr. Prokic. Gordana Pop-Lazic answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1063	Dear fellow Members of the People, I really don't think this amendment that's just on the agenda should be adopted. We cannot because someone once worked badly in that ministry to judge whether a country that has so many citizens abroad should take care of those citizens, nor should we remove such an important ministry in order to save, allegedly, in the budget. It doesn't take much to save, it's not as expensive as some people want to present it, so in the media, it's particularly glancing, because, apparently, democracy is very expensive, we don't need elections, we don't need the National Assembly, we don't need in the government as many or as many ministers. Believe me, nothing is expensive, all of it can be held by our country if the policy that the government is leading... And she'll run it the way we tell her or direct her to lead. Sadly, it will be done by the congregation majority. It is democracy, and whether it was the right will of the voters or not, it will be seen by the results and by the length of the government that will soon be elected, after we have finished this debate. I would like to draw attention to something we haven't responded to, we may have missed it, but it might serve, if any of the future members of the government are looking at us, or the future minister of diaspora, that we give very little attention to the position of those citizens in Montenegro who feel like Serbs and do not have Serbian citizenship. Don't we have to worry about such citizens and how we care, because it's a Serbian national being? Should they be given some privileges and safeguarded by a Serb national being or not? Should all citizens be treated in the same way, those who claim to be Montenegrins, who went through separatism, who singled out one part of the Serbian national being in a separate state, so that we live, here, in the 21st century, in several states, or should we make sure that this Serbian national Corps is increasing and binding to the queen of Serbia? That's why I think this ministry just has to survive. I wish the head of the ministry were someone who is responsible and who understands his role as it should or how one of the Serbian radicals would understand it. There are great opportunities for good results to be achieved in the ministry. That excuse that the Ministry should be abolished for expenses, believe me, it doesn't drink water and no ministry... Because I believe we'll soon be out of a privatisation ministry. As soon as we're done privatizing, we've had the Ministry of Privatisation, and now we don't need it much more, it's called different, it's over, we're done with it. When one day there are not so many Serbs in the diaspora, we may not need the Ministry of Diaspora. God will give the conditions in this country that they can return, be satisfied with the life and conditions of life in Serbia, that they can develop further, engage their capital, make sure they invest it in a safe country, that they can do whatever they want with it, bring it wherever they want. We have an example, say, of the countries of China, which and how it has a good relationship with its vast diaspora, which almost all the capital that it has created abroad returns to its country. I think it's a prescription that needs to be prescribed, and then we don't have to worry about young people leaving. They may go for some scientific knowledge, walk away from various other initiatives for a short time, but they will return enriched for some new experiences and these experiences will continue here, in their own country, to benefit all of us. Therefore, the SRS considers that this amendment should not be adopted in any way. The Ministry must survive. How it will work will depend on what the future government will draw for itself as a task, but everything is subject to criticism. We will, of course, follow the work of this ministry, because we are very interested in the results that it will achieve.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1064	Ms. Natasa Jovanovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1065	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the issue of the Serbian diaspora or, as Mr Zankov called this ministry in the previous amendment on behalf of the SRS -- for relations with Serbs outside Serbia, the issue of relations with Serbs outside Serbia has first started seriously to treat the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj. In 1988 and 1989, before the disintegration of the former SFRY, he was on a major tour in America, Australia, Western countries and tried to reach the majority, as the dissident of the Broz communist regime that was imprisoned, persecuted, and then as a man with the intention of fully national awareness of people and that through a series of lectures he gave, he created a picture of what the queen of Serbia would be, what his predictions would be. Unfortunately, these not black hunches, but projections for America and Western policy have come true. If you were watching the trial, it seems to me that a month and a half ago this video was broadcast from the Hague Show, you saw that he insisted, because for the day of the trial they only had segments and videos from their lectures, they confused the days, even the cities, and said, "I am proud of every word of my own," because even then, Serbs outside Serbia warned about what would happen to them if such a policy continued, because the intentions of America and the Western forces were certainly not good. Then, in the presidential campaign this year, Mr Tomislav Nikolic gave an interview to one weekly and in a very serious way, it was an interview on four sides dedicated to the Serbian diaspora, treated the issue and told one truth, which is that for years ago, no one cares about Serbs outside Serbia. Someone mentioned earlier, in fact, the amendment's promoters are one of the arguments – in the elections held since the law was passed that Serbs living in dissipation can vote we have seen how little interest there is, there are millions of them, and they do not use their right. Of course they don't use it when no one calls them and the state doesn't try to arrange for them to vote. That's what Mr Tomislav Nikolic was talking about yesterday. He said that only you "yellows" sent the children of aunts and aunts to go and take journals abroad for these distant destinations, they didn't care to activate, as well as the state. Was there a show in the presidential campaign, in the campaign for parliamentary elections in which you invite these people? One morning my cell phone rang, a nice gentleman, introduces himself and says, "I'm sorry, I'm calling from around Toulouse." I say, good morning, good morning, but what is it, and he says, where can I vote? I say, sir, has the state informed you, has the consul given any notice? He says he didn't, and then he says that through one of our famous intellectuals, a Serb from Montenegro, Mr. Komnen Bećirović came to the phone number and that they are self-organizing. In the first election, when the law was passed that Serbs could vote in a dissipation, a woman called me (I don't know what way she got my phone number) and said -- this is Milena, I'm calling from Toronto, where do I vote? These are all living examples. Again, I'm explaining-- ma'am, has anyone informed you, yet you have a Serbian radio there, have they advertised? So absolutely no possibility people had. Do you think there wouldn't be a hundred or two hundred thousand votes just in the Russian Federation? Here, Mr. Master Mirovic knows how many of our Serbs live and work there. According to this record of yours I read yesterday, 203 Serbian citizens are employed in the Russian Federation. It's a disaster, run by the Republic Bureau of Statistics. Those people say, only those from Uzic who work in Sochi have 1,500, everyone would vote for Tom Nikolic in the presidential elections and for the SRS. Where to vote, who invited them? The ones who went to get the journals? The state called? Oh, please. When it is, and that question was raised yesterday by Mr. Nikolic from the pay phone, the electronic voting system, you will not be able to manipulate it. When it is well organized and, of course, with all the information and technological safeguards, the state has the opportunity to organise it, be sure that it will be hundreds of thousands of votes, and for whom it will be for the SRS. I mentioned a place in Montana some other time, because my friends live there, a family from Kragujevac, they paint SPC in that town, Bug's name is, in Montana... Over 30,000 people of Serbian origin live there. Do you think they wouldn't, given the opportunity and the right to do so, vote in the elections? But no one organized them, and the state of Serbia should do it. I must mention, it was at an extremely difficult, wartime time, when we couldn't really expect in our darkest hunches that, of course, it would help America and the Western powers, the Ustashas to implement, and it was done in their Ustasha attacks "Blash" and "Storm", the genocide of the Serbian people, that our compatriots from Republika Srpska would come from there to their mother Serbia, even then Mr. Brana Crncevic, who was in charge of the government of the Republic of Serbia, remember, in a very serious way, raised the issue of Serbs living outside the border, so not the great Serbia, not the single Serbian state for which we are fighting, but Serbs living on these continents and in the countries that I mentioned. If you have such a relationship with it, especially this group that suggested this, then I don't know how you expect these people to ever come and invest a dollar or a dollar that they've made somewhere. We won't do that. We invite them, because they love Serbia with all their hearts, to come here and tell them that once the responsible authorities are established, they will work on their full integration into all our flows here. Because it's the only way to see how those in that town in Montana didn't survive the assimilation, which Mr. Buha was talking about; no, they are, although mixed marriages, all Orthodox religions and therefore there's a SPC there and they fight, regardless of what they went there 120 years ago. One more thing, I'll finish with that, so Mr. Maric can take a moment. Mrs. Pop-Lazic mentioned a very important question. The Serbian Radicals Party in Serbia's Montenegro, since the separatists there banned us from calling ourselves SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, therefore, the Serbian Radicals Party, which is parliamentary in the Assembly, fought for what other parties from the so-called so-called "Serb Radicals". The Serbian Corps didn't. It happened ten days ago and now I'm taking the opportunity to inform the Serbian public in Montenegro. So, as a party, we have made a request to Montenegro's MUP that all Serbs living in Montenegro and want to receive a personal card in a Cyrillic letter can do so. They're early steps and we won't give up. We have done a national strategy to protect the Serb people in Montenegro. We'll fight for it, even if the rest of us are lonely in it, because I see some parties in Montenegro change that. It's not, what Mrs. Pop-Lazic said to us, for the first time. In any case, Serbs in Montenegro should know that if they want to extract that personal document -- a personal card on their mother's letter, in a Serbian letter, thanks to our party, they can do so in any unit of the MUP in Montenegro. It's just some initial steps, but that's how we have to fight for the Serbs on the entire planet Earth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1066	National MP Milos Radulovic submitted the 25th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1067	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DSS-NS Parliament Club - Vojislav Kostunica, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25(1) to add after the words "and their organisations with the Republic of Serbia" the words "creation and update of the database on persons of Serbian origin and citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad". Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing that in many sports events held in overseas countries and abroad at all, members of the Serb people show their loyalty and how sincerely they are tied to our country. At these events we see Serbian flags and see with how many elanas, energy, respect and love for our country they encourage our athletes. At the same time, in connection with the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, our people in the diaspora organised protest rallys, with a lot of energy, where they showed in their heart that they were against the decision to declare a false state of Kosovo. The fact is that we need this database through us, for the simple reason that, according to some information, there are persons of Serbian origin and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, about three and a half million... Last night, we had the opportunity to hear on a show that over 500,000 young people, educated now in the ideal years, who are using their knowledge and energy, who are beyond what we need. In order to update this database on persons of Serbian origin and citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad, both material assets and the engagement of certain human resources are needed. However, in this way we would solve some very important issues such as status issues of diaspora, economic, cultural, scientific, educational and sport co-operation. This ministry, first of all, must not be used for the purpose of party promotion, but must reflect the state interest and implement Serbia's policy towards this very specific part of our population. Unfortunately, however, decades of irresponsible behaviour and control have made it impossible to lose the trust of many members of the diaspora in the state institutions of the queen, because many have abused their authority of state functions to benefit from the diaspora, and sometimes even the state authorities have invested energy in the creation of divisions, i.e. dissociation, and not unity in the diaspora. Movement of the Diaspora Ministry in 2004, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, created conditions for Serbia to institutionally deal with the issue of diaspora relations. It is, above all, a great channel to lobby for state interests, and that citizens of our origin are engaged in helping our country. I am afraid that in this government, this ministry is not only treated as a prey to a party settlement, and this is the very concept of the Bill of Ministers and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government. I am concerned that this ministry will turn into a service for party interests. This shows us all these events these days as regards the constitution of the government, because it is obvious that the Diaspora Ministry is serving the parties of the ruling co-operation coalition, i.e. for the settlement of some smaller political parties. Also, the fact that, according to the government's new law, the value of the government's representatives, as well as any other, will be worth less than the voice of the Prime Minister, which is a solution that is not in accordance with the constitution, leads me to doubt and causes me to fear that the ruling coalition has no will, nor is it ready to treat this ministry as it deserves. First of all, the future government is based too much on compromises, and too little on programme objectives, which is predetermined for failure at the very beginning. Just mentioning the golden voice leads us to suspect that this ministry is not treated properly, that by setting such a constitutional law on government, it creates preconditions that many Serbian citizens think this is a stock society, and perhaps it is a singing society, with a golden voice. I hope that, for these reasons, in the very day of voting, MPs in the Serbian Parliament will support this amendment and vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1068	The word is Mr. Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1069	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I feel obliged to give you one piece of information before I start talking about the amendment. An hour ago, a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee was scheduled to take place. However, the session was not held because the ruling majority did not provide quorum. I hope that on this basis we should not conclude that for some of them Kosovo and Metohija are already diaspora. As for the amendment submitted by counterpart Milos Radulovic of the DSS, as someone who is a member of the SRS and who was born in BiH, Republika Srpska, I believe that this amendment is good and should be accepted in the voting day, unlike the amendments submitted by LDP lawmakers. They suggest erasing Article 25 of the ministry law because they believe there are no conditions and reasons for the existence of a special ministry of diaspora. However, I support my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party's view that this ministry should change the name and not be called the diaspora ministry, but rather the Ministry of Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, if for no other reason than to enter into the essential reasons, then for the only reason it is a foreigner's word in the names of all the ministries of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think it's important what the ministry calls it, but what the ministry does. As for this ministry in particular, I don't think it worked very well. If it worked out well, what happened yesterday wouldn't have happened. It was obvious that even some MPs in the Republika Srpska Assembly did not know enough about the death of Serbs in BiH in the last war, and I particularly think of the Podrinj area, so they were then scrutinised here because of SRS MPs' reactions to the shamefully liberating verdict by The Hague tribunal, Nasera Oric. That is why I will use these 13 minutes, how much longer I have left to remind myself of some data on mass crimes that Naser Oric and his army committed against Serbs in BiH in the Podrinj area. Under Naser Oric's command only during the first seven months of the war, which I will speak of today, 145 Serbian villages were burned. These villages were robbed to the ground, then burned. In all, about 3,500 Serb civilians, Serb territorialists and captured Serb soldiers were killed. The bloodless series Oric and his gang began on Đurđevdan in 1992 by attacking the village of Gostilj and killing Radojko Milojkovic and Lazar Simic. Radojko, who celebrated family glory on that day, was brought alive into the house and burned down, and the unfortunate Lazarus was only killed because he came to a friend for a Christian glory. On the same day, on Djurdjevdan, an attack was carried out on Serb houses in Bleceva, killing three civilians. Kosana Zekic, 64, was slaughtered, her head is literally separated from her body. On June 10th, 10 locals were killed in Rupo Brdo, including Vojislav and Mirjana Milinkovic, the two were burned in the family house. On June 21st, 18 Serbs were killed in the village of Ratkovici near Srebrenica, among them seven women, Desanka Stanojevic was burned in her house, and Radenko Stanojevic was slaughtered. On June 22nd, the terrible harvest of death in Podrinj took seven new lives, including Jerko Slepčević, whom soldiers of Naser Orić later killed his father and two brothers. On Vidovdan, June 28th, 15 Serbs were killed in Loznica Rijeka. Among them were the disabled Srecko Milovanovic and his wife, Jovana. They're both slaughtered. On June 30th, Oric's soldiers attacked the Serbian village of Brezani. There are 19 civilians left behind. Milos Novakovic was found with his head cut off, Vidoje Lazic was crucified alive on a wooden cross and then burned. Kristina Lazic and three Rankic, Milisav, Dragoslav and Mirko were burned in their homes. On July 5th in Zagon, Orić's bandits killed 17 Serbs, among them four members of the Gvozdenovic family, the Radoj and Dragoljub brothers and their uncle Rajk and Radoje's daughter Radojev, who was 19 years old. On the same day, three members of the Milosevic family were killed: Radinka, Milos and Ljubica. In Radink, they fired while she held a three-year-old son of Alexander in her arms. When the woman was hit, they took the child out of her arms, slaughtered her, and took the child with them. On the same day in the village of Krnići near Srebrenica, Orić's soldiers killed 16 locals; Vas Porac was slaughtered by the villains, and Soku Bujic, an old woman, stabbed with pitchforks. On Petrovdan, July 12th, in attacks on several villages, Oric's soldiers massacred a total of 70 people. Among them are 13 territorialists, meaning soldiers who were killed in the Lodja forest near the village of Zagoni. They were first captured by Muslim soldiers, and then killed without a bullet fired, all of them killed by hacks that had soldiers digging trenches before. At the same time, in the village of Zalazi, another Muslim unit killed 38 people, including Ratko Jeremic and his sons Mark and Radovan, the Momčal brothers and Miodrag Rakic, and Momcilov's son Milan, then two brothers Simic, two brothers Vujadinovic, two brothers Vasiljevic. On July 20th, in Donji Magasic, Oric and his soldiers killed 12 Serb civilians. On that day, Big Cvetinovic was killed by his son Zivko, and several months later, his second son Vidoj. On August 8th, the village of Donja Jezestica was attacked. Oric's soldiers killed nine locals on that occasion, including Savko Mlađenovic and her sons Dragan and Angelka. They beat Dragan with a sledgehammer, cut off Angel's head, took it to Srebrenica and played football on the street. Do not think that this information is a fruit of Serbian propaganda, there are statements by Muslims from Srebrenica that it really happened and that football with the severed head of Angelko Mladjanovic was played. On September 24th, in an attack on Podravna Oric and his soldiers killed 60 locals. The attackers massacred the mother, both brothers and aunts that day. According to the autopsy, only a small number of victims were killed by firearms. Other victims, over 50 of them, were shot in the legs first and then massacred. The largest number was killed with a knife and an axe, almost everyone had a fractured spine, arms and legs, severed fingers or whole hands. A large number of unfortunate people were removed from one or both eyes. For many, the head was completely cut off from the body. Some men are decapitated, others completely castrated. Several corpses were burned, and two men were stuffed on a stake and roasted on a grill. That's how they got caught. Already the next day in Podravlje Oric's soldiers killed four more, and two days later 16 Serbs. On October 1st, the village of Fakovici attacked and killed 19 locals. Villages of Belovac, Loznica Rijeka and Sikiriqi were repeatedly targeted by Oric's soldiers. The biggest victims, the biggest casualties of the village, were experienced on September 14, 1992, when 109 locals were killed. I'm going to brief Zorka Ilic's testimony. She was in the house with her housemates when a Muslim came into the house from Srebrenica she knew earlier, called Mujo, and asked him to prepare his lunch and bring him a brandy to drink. As she began to do so, Esma Kiveric, a prewar teacher from Srebrenica, entered and became angry with Muja for not killing, and Mujo replied – wait until I had lunch first, to prepare us lunch. While the unfortunate woman was making lunch, they slaughtered her husband and two daughters in the next room. On that day, Slavki Matic's attackers killed his husband and two daughters. On Christmas, January 7th, there was a word yesterday, a Kravica was attacked. 46 locals were killed in the attack. Among them Nedjeljko Milanović and his son Dragan, the Mitar brothers and Milovan Ostojić, Radojko and Vojislav Bogicevic, Ivan and Krsto Djukanovic, Ratko and Djorđe Miladanovic, all born brothers. 690 Serbian houses were burned in Kravica and the surrounding area that day. On January 9th -- as you can see, attacks mostly take place on large Christian holidays -- in Bolovic and Radojevic, the Muslims killed six Serbs. 13 people were killed in Skelani on 16 January, including two juvenile brothers Dimitrijevic, 15-year-old Aleksandar and nine-year-old Radoslav. On the same day, 70 more people were killed in the surrounding villages, mostly in Kusic and Cosic. In Kusic 17 people were killed, among them seven Ristic. Mićo Ristic was 15 years old and his sister Mitra 18. A journalist from Canada, Bill Schiller, who visited Srebrenica during the war, announced on February 3rd 1994 that Naser Oric himself had taken him to a place not far from the city and boasted that they had killed and massacred 114 Serbs. On the anniversary of the victory over fascism, on 9 May 1992, not far from the village of Baljkovic, Muslims, then the war almost didn't begin, meaning non-unformed faces, caught three sons of Milan Mitrovica from the Serbian Nezuk. The oldest brother Dragan was first broken by his right leg and arm, jaw and several ribs and then slaughtered. Another brother, Radislav, who was 27 years old and Dragan 30, beat one leg, cut off a few fingers and then killed him by beating him in the head with some blunt instrument until his brain drained out. The youngest Branislav, who was 23 years old, cut off his nose and ears and took out a kidney and then stabbed his heart. With them was their uncle's son Bozidar Nikic. For information to those who are disgusted, the unfortunate man was found stuffed on the rye and roasted. On August 24th, Muslims attacked and burned Gornja Kamenica. Two Tomic, Ljubomir and Dragomir, and Rade Kukolj were killed on that occasion. When the village was freed Rade Kukolj was found stuffed on the rye and roasted. Among the victims of the Muslim attack on Kamenica is a ten-year-old Slobodan Stanojević who was caught when he returned from the conflict briefly to let the pet dog he left on the chain out of the yard. He was found completely naked, his right ear was cut off and a big hole was made on his stomach. All of these atrocities that he participated in or ordered by Naser Oric were sentenced to two years in prison on June 30th 2006. The verdict was assessed by the professional public, not only Serbian, as a shameful laxative, first-class legal scandal. Now we have an even more unsuspecting verdict. The UN tribunal's appeal council reached a verdict yesterday -- Naser Oric is not guilty because he participated in the murder of 3,500 Serb civilians, because he participated in the burning of 145 Serb villages. I am not surprised at this verdict in all of this because of the UN tribunal, after all, no one normal, no one nationalally aware and can expect anything else. I am surprised by the lack of any concrete response from the Serbian state. I have one question to ask all day - why did Serbia not react? I hope the answer is not in the fact that the president of the Democratic Party and the president of Serbia attended the Parastos two years ago, or as it is already called, went and ran to Srebrenica and bowed down to the shadows of 2,000 soldiers, Naser Oric, but he refused... For information to those who say there are 7,000, only 2,000 have been found so far, the others exist in stories. Boris Tadic refused to ask the people of Srebrenica and Kravica to stay in Republika Srpska or to come from Belgrade the next day and attend a parastasy that took place on July 12th, Petrovdan, in memory of these 3,500 unfortunate men killed by the same soldiers, Naser Oric. Finally, instead of answering this previous question, I ask one more question to all of you and to myself: what would happen if the UN tribunal issued such a verdict in the case of Ratko Mladic? I am convinced that the reaction would be such that in the next year we could not live from the reaction of the authorities in Sarajevo, and I am afraid of the authorities in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1070	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, our amendment refers to Article 26, or to a proposal to form the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. We support the formation of this ministry, although we are not sure that the reasons given are the real reasons for forming the ministry. We have already in the debate in principle said that so far the unhappiness or abandonment of this topic in Serbia in the past few years has not been the result of the lack of an institutional solution. In fact, there was a Service for Human and Minority Rights with the Serbian government. We think that the problems were personal nature and lack of political will for the state to be more concerned with human and minority rights. Anyway, this initiative is welcome, so whatever. We hope this solution will help to respect human rights in Serbia in a slightly better way. Now just a few words about the amendment. Namely, this draft law is given to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, including jurisdiction, and the obligation to represent the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Human Rights. Accordingly, the LDP parliamentary group has proposed an amendment to assign, together with this obligation, to this ministry the obligation to carry out public administration tasks relating to the enforcement of decisions by the European Court of Human Rights and other binding decisions by international bodies in charge of the protection of human rights whose jurisdiction the Republic of Serbia has taken. So I'm going to try in a few words to say how important this is. So far, 18 rulings have been reached by the same European Court of Human Rights, which determine that a state body of the Republic of Serbia has violated a certain individual human right of a Serbian citizen. However, in the vast majority of this decision by the international court of human rights, or the European Court of Human Rights, has not been implemented in Serbia. This is, among other things, the result that no ministry nor any other state body has the obligation to implement decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Also, various committees of the United Nations have over the past few years also made more decisions to find that individual human rights in Serbia have been violated by state authorities and in these cases, the Serbian government has in no way allowed these rulings or recommendations of the United Nations committee to be respected. I'll just mention the case of journalist Zeljko Bozic. The United Nations Committee on Human Rights found that there was a violation of his rights in Serbia; he waited for several years and failed to fulfil his rights today, or secure it; even the state continued through courts in Serbia... He continued to suffer legal repression, so they are several times, for example. The parties from Kickinda or some state authorities in Serbia were forced to make donations and thus pay compensation to Zeljko Bozic, instead of the state acting according to the decisions of this United Nations Committee on Human Rights and that those judgments... In a particular case, it's about judgments, given that the man is a journalist, for something he wrote. Instead of condemning you, he's under repression today. We think this is a very important amendment, nothing to do with the ruling majority, nothing to do with the opposition. This is one of the responsibilities that has been skipped in this ministry law, and we are sure it is very important because of the country's international reputation and because of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who should feel secure and thus ensure respect for their human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1072	Thank you. Mrs Judita Popovic answered her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1073	The text of the amendment speaks for itself, so the argument could be the very text of this amendment. It reads this - the enforcement of decisions by the European Court of Human Rights and other binding decisions by international bodies in charge of the protection of human rights, whose jurisdiction the Republic of Serbia has accepted. There is no ministry in whose jurisdiction is the execution of European Court of Human Rights rulings. Otherwise, in this country in general, the problem of our courts is only execution. Whoever had a problem with our courts, or was on trial, knows how frustrating it is when after a long trial, in the end, the claim cannot be realised. I think it would be time to start doing some rationalization of this issue, even with this amendment, to start implementing these judgments, or European Court decisions, and we'll see further about our domestic courts. Otherwise, our people who are completely disappointed with the decisions of the courts address the European Court of Human Rights, and when they finally get that decision, the same situation is happening again -- they cannot exercise their right in our country. I would really suggest that this amendment be adopted, no matter who suggested it, because it is in the interest of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1074	Mr. Otto Kishmarton, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1075	Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Dear Members of the People, the Honorable Presidency, dear friends, I'd like to brief you on something that has just been brought out by the LDP in connection with a news reporter from Kickinda. First, as far as national minorities are concerned, the SRS has no problems with national minorities or human rights. We're in municipalities where we've shown power, we've tried, we've fought for the right of national minorities, we've preserved, we've developed, we've raised to some higher level, and we're doing it in all the municipalities where we're in power. As far as the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights is concerned, will it be or will it not? The assembly majority one day proposes the existence of the ministry, the second day an amendment is submitted to abolish, the third day the amendment is withdrawn... As a little kid, he wants to pee, he won't pee, etc., so they don't know what to do with it. Whether there is a ministry or not, the Serbian Radical Party in its programme and its work so far has shown that it takes care of national minorities. There's a reporter here from kickinda. I'll just briefly tell you about it. He says the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia has informed our own time that the UN Committee on Human Rights has asked our authorities to abolish the verdict condemning the journalist's defamation of a Viking businessman and defamation of journalists, because the verdict, according to the journalist's association's statement, threatens freedom of expression guaranteed by the Civil and Political Rights Pact. As for the amendment, I'm not going to comment on whether or not I'm up to it, it's going to be decided by the assembly majority, but I want to say something about this reporter you're defending. Not only are his human rights in this country at risk; if threatened, the human rights of all citizens are threatened, because the Constitution in Article 39 says we have the right to free movement in our country, and in Kosovo and Metohija, which is still our country, we have no right to move freely, and even worse is those people who live there. In the case of this journalist, our president of the state, Boris Tadic, expressed special interest, in order to somehow point him out to protect him from the courts, because against this journalist who has been punished several times for defamation and insult by cultural workers, officials, MPs, lawyers... It's a man who doesn't choose words and lives that way, I guess it's some spiritual food for him to insult people. He has been punished so many times - 1998, 2002, 2002, 2003, these are all the penalties he has received. In addition, it is under way and now processes, one process since 2006, 2005, 2005, 2005, 2005, 2005, 2005, and so on. (President: Time. Just one short sentence. In addition to being the editor-in-chief of the news company, he damaged the company by 5,660,000 because he had fired the workers illegally, and then it had to be paid to those workers, the company where he worked had to pay a sum of 739,000 dinars due to a libel that was found guilty by a judicial decision. I just wanted to draw my predecessor's attention that they shouldn't side with those who have been convicted more than once. A month ago, a verdict was also closed against him, where he was proven guilty. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1076	Thank you, Mr. Kishmarton. I'm asking Ivan Andric to pick up, you have the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1077	Thank you. I've reported by article 101 – if his exposure is misread... In fact, although I completely disagree with you about the work of Zeljko Bodružić, I will talk about it, but it is not an amendment at all. I don't know why you called. The amendment tries to establish an institutional tool that would make some decisions by international organisations, in a specific case of the United Nations, which this country is calling for in a thousand other cases... But when it comes to something the state has to do, in particular to respect the right of someone to express themselves freely, and that right has been proven or, in the UN's view, is being violated, then the state has an obligation to do something or to join the UN. That's twice. As far as Željko Bodružić is concerned, the businessman you spoke of is Mr. Segrt, if I am not mistaken, the local tycoon from Kikinda, former director of the social enterprise Toza Markovic. Ninety percent of the court's rulings, which led this UN Human Rights Committee to make a recommendation to the Serbian authorities to annul these verdicts, were made on the basis of pressure from a local powermaker. I don't know, and I don't want to go into the contents of his texts, just like that. We have this international obligation, and no one in the state is in charge of that obligation, which may be more internal than it is international, being fulfilled and allowing someone to whom they are... Once a citizen of this country (no matter what you or I think about this citizen, it does not play a role in this case) his individual and human rights have been violated. We advocate that through the adoption of this amendment, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, which will be formed, be responsible for the damage that the gentleman, among other things, and Mr Bodruzic... That all those who are at risk of human rights have whom to address and when an international institution makes a decision, that decision within the Serbian state has someone to implement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1078	Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1079	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try to help my party fellow MP Kishmarton resolve this dilemma he has. Mr. Kishmarton, let me explain to you, they first decided to propose to us the formation of this ministry through this law, and then they decided to annul that decision they proposed, and then they decided to annul the decision they had annulled. After all, everything is clear and transparent. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that this ministry is left in the bill and it is good that this ministry is formed, because of a legacy that has been deposited in the Republic of Serbia for eight years and which will have to finally be cleared and applied to human rights. When a lady who sat where you are sitting now, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, decided that, I quote, she "determined to decide" to introduce an emergency situation on the territory, the entire territory of the Serbian state, and had no right to do so, then in one action called "Sabela" 12,500 people were arrested. When it comes to their human rights to have the right to an attorney, given that Mrs "determined to decide" to introduce a state of emergency, in this state of emergency they could not make contact with a lawyer, they could not prepare their defence. 43 or 45 convictions were made based on those 12,500 arrests, the rest largely out of force. The conditions in prisons where people were inhuman during that state of emergency were, at the very least, inhuman. Of those 12,500, at least 9,000 will open proceedings before the international court, as many lawsuits are already in front of our courts. The courts drag it out, stretch it out, and by the time they reach the Supreme Court, while the procedures are being followed, while all the legal resources in Serbia are being used, then they will surely go before international courts, before the Strasbourg court. Many of the rulings will come from there and then the ministry will be tasked with doing so, to execute the International Court of Human Rights verdicts. There is another problem that is much more important, which the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights will have to resolve. We are pleased with the Serbian Radicals that this ministry was formed because, as they were called, the Commission for Human and Minority Rights, which was so far led by Mr Rasim Ljajic, has not helped anyone. It is about citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been delivered to The Hague tribunal and whose human rights have been absolutely affected. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia has sent one, at the very least, incompetent and incorrect man to the ambassador to the Netherlands and these sufferings to those people in the Hague mockery. None of these people's demands, and they were mostly Serbs, there were demands, no demands so far have been met. We had to write three times, a team that helped prepare Professor Vojislav Seselj's defenses had to write three times to get some documents forward and we could help prepare the defenses. You gave a ton of paperwork to your friend, Miss Carly del Ponte. Besides, she praises you in this book. She said a lot, though, but we'll talk about it when the book is translated into Serbian. I think many of you will have to cover your head with shame. These people in The Hague are citizens of this country, they have to help. This country must not deny them their fundamental human rights, their right to defend, their right to prepare for defence. When we passed the law in that previous term that families of those in the Hague prison received support of 200 euros a month, that moment, in the middle of the night, the Constitutional Court met and in the middle of the night you decided to put the law out of force. Ladies and gentlemen, this ministry will have a lot of work to do. Either this job will work or it will deal with the Serbian public, and Serbian radicals will help inform the Serbian public to the last detail. Of course, we will support this section relating to the formation of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and, of course, that as soon as it is formed, we will ask that all documents delivered to The Hague tribunal be delivered to the team of Dr Vojislav Seselj, and not only Dr Vojislav Seselj, but to all Hague prisoners. This state is obliged to assist its citizens in exorcising human justice, exorcising justice and achieving their human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1080	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted to Article 27. Proposal for a law on ministries. The purpose of the amendment is to point to the fact that the European Union rules cannot be applied automatically, given the situation and the circumstances in our country. The basic principles in this area should be those that take into account the real interests of our citizens. A solution that was applied in some neighbouring countries when they were adopted, allegedly due to the success of the so-called success. European and Brussels times, laws in English are pointless and should be a lesson to us. Such a solution has nothing to do with justice. It is due to the application of ideology, which is neither based on legal nor on economic science. Such ideological procedures and acuity guarantee only the economic sunflower. The average earnings in 2007 in the new members of the European Union, Bulgaria and Romania were lower than in Serbia, which is not an EU member. In Romania, it was 312 euros; in Bulgaria, despite the adoption of laws in English, 220 euros. Therefore, automatic application of EU law does not bring a better standard in Eastern European countries. John Nezbit, a former adviser to several US administrations and a manager in IBM and Kodak companies, similarly believes. "Bulgaria and Romania have also received with EU membership a bunch of papers on which the fine print of the rules that were not in force in these countries until then. These regulations for Bulgarians and Romanians mean only introducing additional and burdensome restrictions." No phrases about ideal European law can hide these facts. Also, when it comes to applying EU law, the following facts should be taken into account. We all know the French term "aki communitre". The term marks the comprehensiveness of EU rules. It is believed to be 100,000 pages of regulation, but it is hard for entire legal teams to look at the overall and real usefulness of these regulations. It is particularly hard to believe that within a short period of time, entire legal teams could see the usefulness and adaptability of these regulations regarding the situation in our country. Also, this problem makes it difficult for more than 2,000 new laws to be passed each year. So, at the very least, we need to consider this problem carefully. Dogmatic approach applied in Article 27. The bill of law will only make our situation more difficult. The phrases about the EU and the ideal laws that minority should not interpret or adapt to the situation in our country, but automatically apply, are far from reality. The next example shows that. In 2007, European Commissioner for Industry Ginter Ferheugen requested a change in the way the European Commission works. In a statement to the German media, he said there was a constant struggle between commissioners and senior officials. A lot of people think - the commissioner leaves after five years, he's just a temporary boss, but I'm staying. The Commissioner also said that this fight was fought continuously and secretly. In particular, he noted that Brussels's bureaucracy and officials represent their personal views as false as official and thus cheat on the Member States of the European Union. In this regard, the Brussels commissioner cited the issue of pesticide use. Verheugen demanded that the European Commission not behave as a top teacher in relation to Member States. So, to say the least, there is a serious problem with interpreting the Brussels regulations. That is why this amendment should be adopted. The amendment to Article 27 should be adopted because of another problem that arises in practice. It's a lack of legal certainty. A few years ago, the Vice-President of the French Parliament's Legislative Committee defined the problem with the following words: "The legislators in France and elsewhere mix everything. Every time there's a problem, we make some law. Simple codes guaranteeing legal certainty are replaced by extensive and vague. Today the best lawyers, the best judges don't know those laws because they can't get over them. I think the huge problem is this legal complexity that creates uncertainty." In this context, the French lawyer particularly criticises EU supranational law: "European law is even worse. There's been a limit to the incomprehensibility of his texts. It's like it's got legs on it." Ladies and gentlemen, when you decide on this amendment, bear in mind the words and words of Stephen Mayer, a known expert for the Balkans: "The entrance to the Union is like some gold ring that people in the Balkans have taken with great hope, but this ring, very possibly, is a fake. I think these countries have to ask themselves, honestly, what are the real advantages of this whole process, what are we going to benefit from today and tomorrow? "I believe that the amendment has been submitted in that sense and that is why it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1082	Mrs. Vervain Radeta answered her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1083	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 27. The bill is another member of this bill that may seem acceptable, but it can essentially be very dangerous. If you have sincere intentions towards the state of Serbia, then it is necessary to show it by adopting this amendment. You refused to adopt the amendment of counterpart Pelevic when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija by explaining it with some kind of language formulations, or I don't know what you already said, and you essentially did something that could be very dangerous after the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Why do I think this article 27 could be extremely dangerous in a similar way? Because you say that all ministries within their work are achieving international co-operation and are taking care of its improvement and ensuring compliance with European Union law. You know and the citizens of Serbia know how many countries that members of the European Union have recognised an independent false state of Kosovo. What if, at European Union level, a regulation is passed that will formalise what these countries have done individually and that the EU... Here, sending Eulex to Kosovo and Metohija is the first step. Will this Article 27, then, oblige you to lay down such regulations that will recognise Kosovo's independence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? So, I repeat, if you are all going to act as Government, or you fellow MPs who will support and choose this government is sincere in that Kosovo and the Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia and that none of you will ever say anything different or officially, then we really don't see why we don't accept this amendment that just... Essentially, what you wrote remains, but it is added – we will respect, we will comply with European Union regulations to the extent that it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Believe me, the adoption of this amendment doesn't hurt, and a member like this, without this amendment, can hurt a lot. I would like first to remind the citizens of Serbia that we had our negotiating team for Kosovo and Metohija, among other things, that Mr Leon Cohen was on the negotiating team and that at one point Mr Leon Cohen left the negotiating team because Mr Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister, when it came to Kosovo and Metohija, spoke one thing publicly to the public and citizens of Serbia and told the other story to those with whom it was being negotiated. So that's the kind of danger we're afraid of. You know that almost all the parliamentary groups received here about 10-15 days ago a parliamentarian from the German Liberal Party. The man also spoke with Serbian Radical Party MPs. We've been talking for a long time. He planned to talk for half an hour, and we talked for over an hour, because he was not clear how we all speak publicly, everything we bring to the citizens of Serbia and the European and the world public, we say the same thing in the conversation with him, can we not be a little flexible, as the representatives of other parties are. The man said openly – when your officials talk to us about Kosovo and Metohija in four eyes then they acknowledge that Kosovo and Metohija are a burden to them and that they can't wait to be released, that someone at international level is making them recognise Kosovo in some way, that it would be a relief for the representatives of the government, or officials, so the man says it would be a relief for the citizens of Serbia and for the state of Serbia. So this amendment isn't random and it's no whim at all. I argue that this amendment is something that must be adopted if we are to make sure that no one can think of doing something that would be at Serbia's expense. When I say this, I think of Kosovo and Metohija as part of the Republic of Serbia. I'm a little afraid of the fact that you didn't accept Mr. Pelevic's amendment either, and you won't accept this Mr. Mirovic either. We're afraid of the thought of something hiding behind what you said in the election campaign and what you're saying now when you form a government. If you're being honest, I repeat, then accept the amendment, that we're all calm, that we're not thinking. We have the Constitution, we have the Ministry Act. Both undertakes to take care of and take care of the state of Serbia, of course, with Kosovo and Metohija as part of the state of Serbia. If you're not ready to accept these amendments and you're not ready to tell us why you won't, even though in informal conversations... Since I never publicly express what I am speaking informally, I must say, some people I have spoken informally to, and these are people from the congregation's majority, said they have no authority to accept Mr Pelevic's amendment concerning Kosovo and Metohija in the form of the Republic of Serbia, unequivocally and undeniably speaking. If you, fellow MPs who are signatories of this Bill on Ministry, do not have the authority to react and accept an amendment, then tell us nicely who wrote this proposal to you, who forced you to sign it and who told you not to change anything of what was written in this proposal. We're used to the assembly majority playing toy in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but now we don't have that government that you're going to vote for, so we can't say that the government is the one who wrote this for you. You are obviously not, because you cannot change, you do not have the authority to accept amendments that really improve the text of the law, which strengthen us in unity that no one will think to recognise Kosovo, that is, for all of us, Kosovo and Metohija is part of the Republic of Serbia. You can't do that, you won't. Then at least tell us loud and clear who you can't tell, who made you propose a law like this, who makes you form a government, who forms a government for you? It's really obvious, it's no paranoia whatsoever, but it's obvious that there's something here that we all need to be afraid of. Another call, it is not too late to vote in favour of Mr Pelevic's amendment, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. If none of you can now say that it is acceptable to amend counterpart Dejan Mirovic, consider, consult those who wrote to you what you wrote as your own, so when voted vote vote for this amendment. Believe me, it'll be easier for you, too. If in this House we pass a law that includes these two amendments, then you, and some of you will be members of the government, some of you will support the government, you have no longer any concern that those who force you to do whatever you do will force you to do contrary to the law that we bring here. Make it easier for you, make Serbian citizens safer. Accept these amendments. It is the least citizens, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija expect from you. Of course, they have no overtrust in this congregational majority, nor in that future government that you will form. They showed it in the election. I see some of you are impatient because you must have gathered to vote. Someone misinformed you that we'd be done by 19 hours, and we understood that you were gathered to hear something clever. That's why we've been talking about every amendment for as long as the Rules of Procedure allows.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1084	Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1085	Madam Chairman, Art. 225 and 226 and the question is addressed to you. We at the DSS-NS Parliament Club have been patiently waiting for an answer. Mrs. Comic, who replaced you, said you'd let us know when you arrived. We've been waiting all day at the Parliament Club, and we haven't been informed of what's going on with the post of chairman of the Trade and Tourism Committee. Here, and Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic knows what this is about. In that section of the board, according to which in 14 committees the presidents of opposition parties, the place belonged to the opposition, and in our agreement to the DSS, Mr Arsen Đuric. We were told there was a mistake, a misunderstanding. Our president of the parliamentary club is waiting for contact with Mrs. Kolundzija, who is president of the DS Parliament Club, who also told him he will be contacted today and to see how to resolve the issue. We can believe that it really is a misunderstanding when it comes to DS, or a mistake, or that you are not yet informed about what it is, but since the elected MP from G17 plus instead of DSS, and that the resort of tourism belonged to the "Frankenstein Ministry" Mladjan Dinkic, who has everything within that ministry, including tourism, we have a reasonable suspicion that it is the most common kidnapping. Mladjan Dinkic probably does not want parliament to control him properly and is not ready for someone from the opposition to be the chairman of the committee. We are ready to compromise, no problem, can be our president and in the Privatisation Committee, if tourism is so important, and ski resorts and all that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic does. I think this question should be resolved urgently, because if we don't solve it, then, I don't know, maybe we'll raise those questions by asking the Rules of Procedure, and that question specifically, and insisting on what is our right as parliamentary groups. I ask you once again to let us know what this is about and when that kidnapping will be corrected, when what the gentlemanly arrangements here in the Assembly belong to the DSS will be returned. I hope you do it efficiently and quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1086	Thank you. The deal between the presidents of the parliamentary clubs was that 14 committees belong to the assembly minority and that others belong to the assembly majority at this time. The further agreement was that you two would agree on these 14 committees. I would ask Mr Aligrudic and Mr Nikolic to confirm that what I said was absolutely true. I'm going to call back the heads of parliament clubs, who are not here right now, and I'm not in a position to consult, but we're going to settle the issue on Monday, and that's going to be the deal again. Thank you. So 14 committees... I'd like to ask Mrs. Kolundji, who was really directly in charge of coordinating that deal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1087	Thank you very much, Madam President. At a meeting of the heads of parliament clubs with the president of the assembly, it was on the principle that the opposition was selecting committees it considers important to have the chairman there. According to this principle, the committees are divided in the following way: therefore, the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia is the opposition committee, the Committee on Defence and Security is the opposition committee, the Committee on Finance - the opposition has the President, the Committee on Industry, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, the Committee on Health and the Family, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Education, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Local Self-Government, the Administrative Committee and the Committee on Transport and Communications. That's 14 committees. It was an agreement on the principle that the opposition, as we say, described what it considered important to have its presidents there. So it's not about anyone on our side breaking that deal. We fully respected it. Even at the constitutional sessions of all committees, we all voted for the presidents who came from the opposition, who were agreed within the opposition. And vice versa, when the presidents came from the party's position, all MPs voted for those presidents. How did this misunderstanding happen? I also spoke to your head of the Parliament Club, and we agreed to sit down and discuss this from Monday. You probably didn't communicate with him in the meantime, or he doesn't respect the deal, that's what you're saying. So, anyway, I'm saying that we strictly adhered to that agreement that for 14 committees agreed by the opposition gives presidents. We fully respected it in all the committees that were called, we attended and voted in favour of the presidents who had agreed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1088	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1089	When we first discussed this division of the board, the truth was that it was a half-half deal; so, half of the parties representing the ruling coalition, half of the opposition parties in parliament. It's all right. Now, as it comes to something that is truly among the first things, to say, peed in the previous agreement that we had in the presence of... And Oliver Dulic was at that meeting, as I recall, I know I saw some paper later, and today, Hope Kolundzija showed me paper that doesn't show Oliver Dulic circled it... You know what, I can't say that someone did it on purpose to make the Democratic Party of Serbia feel hurt. I can't, because I don't have any proof of it. The fact is, we thought the board belonged to us all the time. We sent our man to that board, confident he'd be elected president, and in the end we saw it wasn't like that. So, if it's a misunderstanding, I agree with the chairman, he should be dealt with. I think we can handle it Monday. Of course, I wish it was just a misunderstanding, really. We need to look at all these committees one more time and see what it is from those committees that the opposition really asked for the moment we spoke. In that sense, we would need help and colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party to look at it. I am absolutely sure that we spoke loud and clear at that meeting, and Rade Obradovic, vice-president of the Assembly, attended the meeting, that the Trade Committee held opposition in the previous meeting and that it remains on the side of the opposition. The Serbian Radical Party did not seek the post of president of the Trade Committee in our talks. This led to a very logical conclusion that the place belonged to the DSS-NS, since the Liberal-Democratic Party was not at the moment, nor later, expressing its desire to chair the committee. That's what I know. Maybe there are things I don't know. Maybe there's something about this whole thing being dropped in the meantime. It's obviously someone's failure, or someone who's been writing down, who's drafting and writing down this text, or something else. I can't say it's anything else. It's just amazing. You know, the G17 plus has a Trade Committee, so they'll have a Privatization Committee... (From O.R.: No. No, who's holding, SPS? Whatever. He can't stay like this. When you want a committee and you want to make that up at the beginning of the story that it's part of the division, I think it's extremely unfair that something else is going on. I would ask Miss Natasa Jovanovic of the Serbian Radical Party, perhaps she can help us and say something about it. She's not the DSS. People have not declared themselves, nor have they been given an interest in running a Committee on Trade, Tourism and Services. Let's just see what it's all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1090	I thank Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1091	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Mrs Kolundji has read, all the committees belonging to the opposition political parties have been taxed. Mr. Aligrudic, obviously this is where it came from, as I understood and as you said, there was a technical error. Don't worry, we are under our agreement – and you know very well how correct Mr Nikolic was, and you on the other hand, and we didn't have any problem – we tried to keep all of our relations within the opposition and what belongs to you as the DSS-NS parliamentary group. As for the constitution of these remaining committees, be sure, and you will eventually agree to talk to the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, that we will respect this agreement until the end. Next week we have more time, for Monday the constitution of the Committee on Agriculture is scheduled, it belongs to our, for now, opposition party (it is not known what will happen and how long this majority will last); the establishment of the Committee on Health and Family is also planned for Monday, when the session continues. So that's what we still need to definitely deal with your MP group. Be assured that it will be all right and that there will be no problem as far as our side is concerned, as it has not been since the beginning. What we have as committee presidents and vice-presidents, both the SRS and the DSS-NS, we will use, and that is what needs to be the right deal and fully and into promiscuity exactly in line with the representation of parliamentary groups, or the number of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1092	Thank you. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected presidency, we think that one of the main tasks of all ministries is to bring domestic legislation into line with EU rules quickly and efficiently. The draft law reads Article 27: "The ministries within their work are achieving international co-operation and are taking care of its improvement and ensuring compliance with European Union law. "We think this member is too general and not enough. In line with that, we suggest adding three more attitudes. In one position, it is proposed that all ministries should make a commitment and other measures envisaged by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and other documents relevant to the accession process of the Republic of Serbia. Then, the most important part of this amendment – all ministries are obliged to provide periodic reports on the commitments made on the basis of the plans to the Prime Minister, the Vice-President, the National Assembly's resolution committees and the National Assembly. We also suggested that reports be delivered at least twice a year, not later than June 30th and December 31st. We believe that if there is a declarative pledge for the EU, and it was present in two past governments... In both exposés, however, the prime minister noted that it would be one of his government's most important obligations, and still, during 2007, this parliament passed only two laws that bring Serbia closer to the EU. From this is a law on travel documents that, as you all know, has not come into force until today and has become the subject of political struggles. We believe that there is no reason why the congregation or most of us do not accept what we propose and that these mechanisms are introduced into the law. They will first of all make it possible, i.e.... The ministries will be forced to draw up concrete plans as part of their resolutions to comply with their EU regulations, and then to be able to control by the prime minister, the Vice-President, the Committee of the National Assembly and all MPs; we will be able to see how many ministries and what they have done on the basis of the implementation of these plans. We believe that, at least in principle or declaredly, there is the consent of all, and that this is a unique position in Serbia, that legislation, or legal system in Serbia, needs to be adapted to the legal system of EU countries. This issue should be separated from the issues of certain parts of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement which are disputed for some opposition parties. This is about one general provision that should allow for more effective and content work of all ministries, on the one hand, and that, on the other hand, enables MPs to control. We also know that there has been a lot of controversy on the committees on these amendments and that it has almost overcome the motion that these amendments be rejected. Therefore, we are still behind these amendments and we are calling on all MPs of the ruling majority to prove, if they really advocate the pro-European government, one step and that is to accept this LDP amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1094	Thank you. Mr. Petar Jojic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, concerning the provision of a proposal for this law which provides for international co-operation in Article 27, I would like to remind ourselves of the fundamental human rights and freedoms that are regulated by a number of international documents, and that this bill must be in agreement, and on the other hand, to remind ourselves whether we respect international law and international norms or not, or we do so selectively. I would only remind you that human rights and freedoms have been established as the legal position of individuals according to the authorities. Human rights and freedoms are a guarantee that the government must not overstep. Where's Sabela, where was she in 2003 when 12,500 people were arrested illegally and illegally? The scope and respect for human rights are the best indicators of the character of the relationship between state authorities and citizens. Human rights represent an area of private activity reserved for an individual, and on the other hand, they are a means of resistance to the state government to prevent abuse and overrun power, a great reminder for state authorities not to exceed their powers and not to overrun fundamental human rights and freedoms. However, the purpose of human rights is not only about restricting the state and opposing the state government. The state, as a social and cultural community, takes care of the physical and cultural goods and development of citizens by establishing appropriate rights for them such as: economic, social and other, whose basic idea is to provide citizens with material conditions that enable them to exercise other public rights and freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, human rights and freedoms can be shared: according to the subject bearer to individual, means individual and collective, i.e. group; according to the existence in norms and realities to formal and real; from the point of view of international law and the relations of individuals and states to the rights of negative status, the rights of positive status and the right to active status. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, throughout history, it is common for the rights and freedoms to be added, above all, to the special personal rights of the citizens in which they enter: personal freedom, right to life, inviolability of human integrity, inviolability of the apartment, which provides for the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has been brought in particular, and was actually written during the rule of Serbian Radicals in the Federal Government, because this proposal has been prepared and it is also in the federal parliament, and also here, accepted by so means of a single amendment. The full list of freedoms and rights must be guaranteed and protected and prescribed in the legal procedure. This means that any legal protection by means of a judicial procedure is carried out by means of an administrative procedure, i.e. in the context of one envisaged order of actions and activities which are materially carried out by the competent authority responsible. Human rights and freedoms documents are numerous. To remind ourselves, the integral part of the struggle for rights and freedoms in society was the philosophical and political thought of rights and freedoms, and the first fruits of that struggle were the medieval charter of rulers, such as the Grand Charter. It's a charter that was brought to England in 1215. Then, a petition on rights, a French declaration on the rights of man and citizen from 1789. I will refer to what rights are necessary, that the government and the state authorities must respect them, when it comes to the achievement of basic human and political rights guaranteed by numerous international documents and ratified by a contract signed by our country, both the previous and the one which has continued and adopted as a legal follower. A particularly important document is the Universal Declaration on the Rights of Man, which was adopted at the UN meeting in 1948. A universal declaration in the fundamental rights of man lists: the right to live, which means that a few years ago we abolished the death penalty, freedom and security of a person... America didn't lift the death penalty, just to remind you. Then, the right to equality before the law, the right to human treatment, the right of a person to freedom from any arbitration, the right to use legal means, the right to an impartial trial. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing the release of a liberating verdict against the famous slayer and war criminal Naser Oric, who was released. National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have provided authentic data on the number of victims Serbs have suffered, their villages and their cities; which Muslims have indeed committed the most serious crimes. I'll bring you the next time you see some photos of the crimes of Nasir Oric. At the same time, we will ask the state television to display a three-hour video of war crimes in Podrinj and the surrounding areas committed by the soldiers of Naser Oric. An impartial trial -- when it comes to an impartial trial, I cannot bypass the trial of Professor Vojislav Seselj, the leader of the Serbian Radical Party, the largest Serbian patriot, who has proved in all evidence so far before The Hague tribunal that there is no evidence, any fact that he committed any crime or any crime. As the sixth, right to the invulnerability of the apartment, honor and reputation and the right to freedom from arbitrary harassment in private life and family. When it comes to the invulnerability of the apartment, I draw particular attention to the state authorities and those who are authorised under the Code of Criminal Procedure to listen to your phones and your family for the solution of the investigating judge alone and to enter your privacy. I tell you that many MPs and politicians listen to certain services without having a decision from the competent state authority. The right to freedom of movement, the right to asylum, the right to citizenship, the right to marriage and the establishment of a family, the right to property, the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, the right to freedom of assembly and association, the right to participate in public assemblies and to perform public functions, the right to social security, the right to a decent material and cultural life, the right to freedom of work, satisfactory conditions for work, protection from unemployment, the right to a fair reward, the right to rest, the right to a life-level sufficient to ensure the health and well-being of a man and his family, the right to education, the right to freedom of participation in cultural life, copyright and the right to social international order which can only guarantee the freedom and rights of our citizens. To remind ourselves that the UN Commission has also after a long time developed the Pact on Human and Political Rights, the Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. These pacts also contain provisions on measures for their application, their drafts were adopted in the relevant UN bodies, then in the UN General Assembly on 16 December 1966, together with a university protocol along with the Civil and Political Rights Pact. The application measures include the possibility for countries which make a special declaration, as prescribed and normised in Article 41, to address the Committee on Human Rights, whose establishment, composition, jurisdiction and operation are more detailed under the Civil and Political Rights Pact, which will be able to smooth such disputes between the States through measurement. Citizens of countries that have accepted the Civil and Political Rights Pact, and this university protocol will be able to address the Committee on Fundamental Human Rights. However, what is not present in this bill are a number of documents and a number of international law norms, whether public, whether criminal, or administrative, so that when it comes to basic human rights and co-operation with the international community and other international bodies, with those where the agreements between our country and other countries are ratified... Unfortunately, we have to stop, and that's said, I just pointed out that 12,500 people were arrested in the Sabre action. Some said it should be the next Scalpel action. We're not going to "Sablja" or "Scalpel", and we want to stick to it and see how Hamurabi, how Emperor Dušan is with his criminal code, we want to see how this Magna Carta libertatum was prescribed in 1215... We want to respect the Constitution. We ask that the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted in this House be respected. We want the judges to judge by law, to be impartial, not to judge by which political party the suspect belongs, but that all citizens are equal before the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1096	Thank you. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1097	Dear colleagues, article 28 is very illustrating about the relationship of the current government not to Europe, but to European bureaucracy, on the one hand, and on the other hand, about insufficient respect for its own citizens. Article 28. The proposal for a law on ministries is completely unnecessary, and past the Constitution, which precisely defines it, requires the application of ratified international contracts, as an obligation defined by a group of joint tasks for all ministries. If someone in this country, as the current government does, believes that the Constitution is not in a legal sense the last wall of defence of what is called human and minority rights and freedoms, I read to you sections of the Constitution, if it is not the last wall of defence of economic order and public finance, it is a toy of plastics that can be shaped according to its own needs, then it is a member of the 28th proof of that understanding and that claim. At the moment when the Lisbon Agreement failed in Ireland, because it was one of the few countries that allowed the best way of declaring citizens to be such an important act, which failed because it was declared to be less than half of the citizens; if you can't hear anywhere the information that in Germany the process was stopped for the Lisbon Agreement, because part of the German public refused to ratify the Constitutional Court against the adoption of the Lisbon Agreement and that the process of ratification of that act was stopped in Germany, one of the countries of the EU's feathers; if in Poland, the President of the Polish State refused to ratify the agreement even though the Assembly adopted it, and if it is called "the weightening course" of the European Union and Croatia, it makes clear that the admission into the EU will be slowed down, this ship called Titan, which Americans say it does not know where it is going, it is only the leader, the leader of the entire human economy that makes it appear to be the true. An even scarier question opened today by my colleague Aleksandar Martinovic, which is – where will the cost of newly established ministries be financed? That's what it is: the minister, the official car, the secretary, and then the building where it's going to be, the equipment, etc. The shortest sentence in the transitional and final provisions is: "The financial resources needed to implement the law will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. "There are many colleagues in this room with whom we have long studied parliamentaryism, so they have had opportunities to read the arguments of the law frequently. They must agree with me that never such an explanation could be given in July of the month when the 2008 budget was adopted and when the only real, logical explanation that we owe to citizens could be read – citizens, the new government is a elemental disaster or an unpredictable disaster, so we will finance it from the budget reserve funds. That's possible. It is possible to say – we will go to budget rebalance, where we will finance increased costs. But that rebalancing means you're going to introduce some new tax liability for this expenditure; that rebalancing would also open a story, as it has to open, what about the budget deficit, what about privatisation not covering your credit debt costs. The only way to explain to us what you will finance this is precisely what Mr. Aleksandar Martinović, otherwise the lawyer, told you – if you tell lawmakers when adopting the budget that the law on the budgetary system does not allow you to direct someone's resources without taking them from someone, then the budgetary framework is given, say what costs you will give up to finance the costs of a new government, or new ministries without rebalancing. What are you going to give up? The special services of those channels for the "pronged water heater" for money laundering, all of those performed positions that may be meant for the 10%, we'll talk about it when the time comes, the 10% to increase pensions and coordinate this year. I am asking you, I belong to the Serbian Radical Party, a parliamentary group that reads your laws seriously, which is serious about its voters, people who sent us here with their votes, don't underestimate the citizens by convincing them that they can no longer have a downside on current accounts for survival, underestimate them in this way, and, on the other hand, standardize something that is defined by Articles 123, 99 and 194. I'm not going to quote the provisions of the Constitution, this is simply called overnoding. Dear colleagues and respected citizens, I have been waiting for this opportunity since the start of the election campaign to tell citizens from this place and Serbian President Boris Tadic that they lied to him. They lied to him when they told him that over four hundredm euros were waiting at the country's borders because of unwarranted agreements placed on the agenda (many of us are MPs from the previous session) of the regular session on March 5th. You lied to Mr. Tadic. I believe if he'd seen it, he wouldn't have brought the truth if the election had stopped that money. Citizens know the story, not the bridges, the clinic center, the Bora lacks money, because elections are being called. Dear citizens and gentlemen, all agreements defining some of the money for these purposes have arrived at the Assembly with an expired duration. They were all signed in July and the deadline for their ratification, confirmation and application came in the tenth month, and for some of them in the 12th month of 2007. To the assembly, MPs were delivered for a meeting on 5 March 2008. In 2007, why have many of these agreements been signed in 2006, some in July 2007, not arrived at the Assembly for ratification? Boris Tadic must remember that at that time he wanted to conduct presidential elections and that his way to the stars, we will see whether the star or the thorn, paves what is called the will of the citizens, in fact, that the burden for bad bridges, for unrenewed clinical centres, for the quality of air in Bor, and everything else is passed on to one who is neither responsible nor guilty. The lie, which was started at the beginning of the campaign, was given birth to an entire campaign; one of the colorful lies called the contract and the agreement with the "Fiyat", which I do not want to be a bird of ominouss, but as a timely agreement with the Italians has been advertised, and only at the moment when due to the damaged interests of Italian investors in Sartida, the Duferko concerted with the Italians had to sign the papers on which NIS would repay the commitments that the state needed from Sartida's bankruptcy to return, is now just one of the moves that was extorted to make the third war pay to the Italians, and under the cover of the story of re-cooperation with the "Fiita". Under the cover of that story again will go, I said octopus, G17, someone today said "Frankenstein Ministry"; Mr Dinkic will again give us 2,000 euros per job for the newly opened post in Kragujevac, because it is imagined, not to say fraud, I don't know a different name now, because in Serbian language it is called fraud, by which all Kragujevac workers will go bankrupt or what is called alleged voluntary departure, and then a new enterprise will be established where funds from Serbia's budget and citizens will be financed by allegedly raising the flag and factory "Fijat". All those arguments were familiar to us. Knowing how eager the people were to hope, we spoke very carefully about it. Knowing how ready you are to participate in this event because of another mandate and some ministerial chair, I warn you, today when you adopt documentation, agreements, don't lie to the citizens. At least the sessions last up to 22 hours every day, I couldn't face my children, my neighbors, and I wouldn't be able to keep an eye on the fact that I'm standing on the Assembly site. None of the only information on the amounts here is the fruit of the budget, of the vision. It's about data available to all of you, unfortunately, not many citizens, but it's our duty to introduce them to it. I beg you, either budget rebalance or say that this is a fundamental disaster so fund new ministries and ratify the agreement, of which not all are so good, on the burden of citizens. But admit that you are doing it not in the interest of all of us, but in the interest of you and of European bureaucracy, which has no support in your countries, which proves for now Ireland, Germany and Poland, and I hope that many will be opened to the eyes, as well as to our people as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1098	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1099	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank the magistrate, Jorgenka Tabakovic. I didn't want to start the amendment on article 30 with this story about "Fiat," but you gave me a great creamworth to point out my knowledge at the assembly speaker. You've expressed caution, not as a bird of the ominous, dark work, you're a woman who's from the point of view of her profession and as a minister of privatisation at the most difficult time did everything to create an ambience and conditions (and you tried to prevent the robbery of the beech cement) for normal privatisation, which later turned out to be a mugging, mobster. But what we have as a bitter experience from the past, it's the machete's relationship with the Fiata to the flag. I started my working century in one sector of the flag group in the former SFRY. The export sector, as we were called, finished with a minimum of $10 million of profits each year. There were 15 employees and we were working with great enthusiasm when the flag produced 220,000 units of cars and we were trying to get everything produced, and what we didn't need to go into the installation of our vehicles and the full capacity of it, to the countries of the European Union that you are flocking to, so mostly in Scandinavian countries, to the UK, but also to the American continent, and through other projects. Because when one management team and a team of people are able to do something, they don't need what's called the Export Promotion Agency and foreign investment, because, look, I remember when there weren't any agencies like that, how a group of capable people could do it; you all have these experiences, especially people from the economy back then. Not only that, and that is one expression I remembered from our famous president, and party friend Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, Mr. Srboljub Vasovic, who was a model to us who worked in the flag group as a man who fought for the factory and who had the results behind him, so I remember that famous sentence of his, that motherly relationship of the "Fijata" to us. We are now coming into a situation, we Kragujevci and even people from the economy, to find out the post-festum, when the euphoria passed, that it is the intention of the Italian "Fiyat" to move their two plants from Poland, one from Sicily, and to be the equipment, or line for the installation of a model, you still don't know which, in the Zastava car factory, with the physical... I am responsible for that, however much Mladjan Dinkic lies and deceives Serbian citizens... You remember here, replicating us before the election was called, he told us that, besides this one in Kragujevac, we'd have another car factory in a short time. It's impossible, that's what every director from the flag car will tell you, that, with no idea what kind of robotics, one man works on 100 units of cars, that we produce 300,000 units of cars annually. It's not their intention, it's some wishes that, unfortunately, cannot be realized. On the other hand, it is optimal at this time, not from the "Fiyat" programme, but overall everything sold, both on the lease and on the second-hand car loan, that our market accepts and absorbs between 60,000 and 100,000 units of car. That's what people do. In return, the Italian "Fiat" will... It will be their investment of 700m euros, that's what's heard now, and it's not culinary stories, but come from serious circles; it's about these two lines, it's that "fiyate zinc", ristaling former "pegs", another model and this line from Sicily will be brought to Kragujevac; they will compensate those 700m euros and will in return from these world banks for the development of their industry to get a completely new line. What is the epilogue of everything we will see very soon, it has been announced that this will happen in hot July days, so until the end of this month. What I want to talk about tonight is this Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency. Unfortunately, it was founded to employ certain personnel. Whether there's more of these from DS or G17 plus, I really can't even say it. Mr. Albianic, calm down. I'm glad you came. You weren't here all day to hear anything clever. Radeta's colleague was right, she announced your arrival. She said - only Mićko Albianic is missing so that the group is complete, that you really hear something concrete and smart, not that you are succumbing to the lies and delusions of this boss, as one of the "French Ministry" said - Mladjan Dinkic. Now, since all of these are facts, I like to make jokes like that, and to make it more interesting, to throw in these epithets, here, I'm going to start with concrete facts... So, in the 2008 budget... It is an amendment requesting, on behalf of the SRS, that the Republic Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion be abolished. It's a consumer company completely, like many others. That costs Serbia, taxpayers, 199.365,000. Look, in the structure of that consumer company, because it's really a company, they don't do anything, they print brochures, they travel, they do whatever they want, they don't help anyone... They boasted in an economic bulletin, one that makes coffee in our country, one that deals with paper gallantry, or something like that, paid them 30,274,000... Imagine, he says, services per contract, and that's that famous conto, Mrs. Tabakovic, who is the most prone to money laundering, for robbery, for kidnapping. Imagine now the Foreign Investment Agency and the Export Promotion Agency, they're some smart-ass, and that's that "bag-mad" expert, they say -- come up with something that would make someone out of the Earth invest something in Serbia, we'll give you a million, two million dinars, and that's a total of 92,320,000, so you think about who's gonna bring some dinar here... He's coming up with something, he's thinking up, and he's not thinking up anything, or he's something on a long stick, like, he's making a deal, and in fact the truth is completely different. He says subsidies to private companies -- 60 million dinars. Now I publicly invite these companies to send us what these companies are, and those who have sought, and have not received. If someone subsidized the orchards in the mortician area, in Colombian, in the forest, please, never heard of anything like that in your life. So no such company has been subsidized, because your goal is to have an import lobby do whatever it wants and not to export it. The very fact, it is a tragedy, that there is something like this in Serbia, in which the external trade deficit is 40 billion euros, speaks enough in favour of this being done just to receive huge wages. We'll find out what it is, whether or not the Agency's director has a million and a change of monthly salary, how many employees they have. Pure robbery and pure kidnapping. That's why we're asking for it to be abolished, because one firm, or political party, and you saw that we're always talking -- one firm, G 17, and now we've proven that these yellow companies are just the company, and that's what they're doing for them... What I want to talk about tonight, and to refer to Mrs Tabaković's exposure and these expert reports by the magistrate Mirovic, who has been dealing with the area for a long time, is what the economy of post-Communist countries is like in so-called. the transition and their relationship to the EU. Tonight I want to mention for the first time from a pay phone a group that will, I think, be the most prospective, not the EU's pandan, but something that we need to rely on, which is the BRIK organization. If, Mr. Milivojevic, I ask you what a BRIK group is, you have no idea, and if I tell you Brazil, Russia, India, China, then it's all clear to you. They have only been mentioned so far as some statistical data when gross national incomes are being generated, when comparisons are being made regarding the industrial development of EU countries, the United States, etc.; these countries have only been mentioned in this regard. But now, looking at politics, primarily the global economic policy of the United States, which is in a major recession, and people who work there and those who follow these data and EU policies, have made a political decision to do something to the future of this planet with a joint organised performance on the world market. In fact, when it comes to all this information about food price hikes, they have experienced an enormous increase in the resulting destruction of agricultural production and import lobbys for whatever it wants, but a rise in food prices on the world market, due to an increase in biofuel prices, is actually one manipulation of the WTO. These countries have concluded it and it's the right information. These are powerful countries, imagine how many billions of people are, and they have decided to fight through world institutions, so they will set out certain UN requirements, so they will seek in the future... Because you know how, the force can't last long, and what America is doing to the countries of the European Union... You see that some are resisting, the Lisbon Agreement mentioned earlier has been rejected by Ireland, the hysteria of Sarkozy, etc., these are all processes that have begun. Imagine, and this is not a fantasy but a real political decision by the BRIK countries to organise themselves and to demand that the world's reserve currency be one of these countries' currencies. That's normal. Whether it will be the currency of China, Russia, India, anyway, but they want to seek their, much stronger, place in the UN. That's our future, if we're going to protect Kosovo and Metohija. You know how, you who have been dealing with the economic profession for many years, you know, think about how far India is now, you know very well that India, as the country that now has to be placed on the world market, has a surplus of $220 billion, has an interest, because Russia is much closer to us and that's a lot of talk about Mr Mirovic, has interest and how to invest in Europe. Why not? She wants her space in this anti-globalistic political area and wants to play that role here in Europe. It is no accident that the days of 'India in the Heart of Serbia' were held in Kragujevac, but it was used only for propaganda purposes. But we as a party will not give up on it. I expect, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that parliament will also play a significant role in what is called attracting foreign investment and promoting what our country has. How can we have that? First, through our participation, it is our patriotic obligation in these permanent international delegations. Another very important thing is forming a group of friendships. We have only today established the Committee on Foreign Affairs and we must fight for it and that parliamentarians play a kind of diplomatic role. Besides, as far as I'm looking at you from the Democratic Party, who knows how many of you would be, you're no worse than I don't know who, better foreign ministers than that Vuk Jeremic, but what you're going to do, you have to keep your mouth shut and put up with Tadic's torture. That is why it is no coincidence that in the Council of Europe procedure there is a draft of a resolution called - parliamentary diplomacy. Don't ignore that thing. That's the puck that we got, and Dulic himself, who didn't get very upset about it, we MPs from Boris Grizzlov, president of the Russian State Duma. (President: Time) I'm finishing up, Madam President. He told us openly – if you have no intention, if it is not your urgency that our assembly committees cooperate, that we have joint projects, that Russian capital should come here, free of us and these agencies that are truly the method of robbery. I'm sorry, it's been a while, I wanted to talk a lot more about these strategic intentions and the political and economic strength of the BRIK countries (remember it, because it's easier for you, as a shortcut, Mr Milivojevic), but then, on another occasion. What is important to us Serbian radicals is that we have such friends in the world and that a group of these countries want to come to Serbia, accept us, protect our territorial integrity and that they will invest a lot here. We will, in turn, make this happen and demystify the role of EU and US countries, above all, which has never wanted or brought us anything good in economic or political terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1100	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 37. The draft law on ministries with the idea that the title above the mentioned member should be deleted. Namely, this amendment is to a certain extent compatible with the previous amendment, which in an extraordinary way has been elaborated by my colleague and my predecessor, Natasa Jovanovic, because this member is considered to be absolutely excessive. Let me remind you, this amendment applies to special organisations, in this case to the Republic Institute for Information and the Internet. When we hear the word Internet and IT, it sounds nice, and especially sounds like ordinary people who don't understand these things. Informatics and the internet for ordinary people mean something sublime, something mystical, but there are problems, and then there's the action of the "yellow company", where something nice sounds, they find themselves there, and they're trying to do something, and in fact, it's a weak vision and a great shame. I believe that the state of Serbia absolutely does not need the Republic Institute for Information and the Internet. Simply because people are employed, it must be kept in mind whether the Republic of Serbia's budget can handle something like this. We know that Internet and IT are something without which, of course, you can't. I don't want to say for a moment that we don't need it, and I don't want to say it right. It seems to me that the legislator might have realized this time that it was an e-mail, so he thought that e-mailing and distribution might require a postman, and there was a chance that a certain number of party people might be employed. It's just that something like this isn't allowed. I think this problem can be solved in a simpler way. Not only do we have 24 ministries, but we have seen from the proposal for a law on ministries that we have an extremely large number of special organizations, including this distribution office and the Internet. Where there are a large number of ministries and special organisations very often, almost always, there are intertwinations and conflicts of jurisdiction. There's always problems where there's a lot of jurisdiction. In certain cases, it can happen that, for example, two ministries or two special organizations, two funds or two institutions over some of the things that are interesting to each other. Or, in the other case, if there's a thing that could belong to either one or another, it's not interesting for either of us, it can happen that this thing stays unprotected. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary to accept this amendment, that such an institution is not needed, at least not in this sense as proposed by the draftr of this law, because it only increases Serbia's budget and uses the opportunity to hire party personnel in this way. It should be borne in mind that it is a very sensitive area, that not everyone can do it, because information technologies require extremely educated and vispres people, and there are usually no such ones in those parties whose only motive is to employ their own people and thus create special organisations. Once again, this amendment by the Serbian Radical Party should be accepted. That would also be good for the citizens of Serbia, Serbia's budget and the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1102	The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1103	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I read Article 37. I can really wonder if I live in a country of Serbia or if this is some utopia, some country that doesn't exist. I can't believe what you're making up and how, in any way, you're going to be involved in some kind of legal robbery of the Republic of Serbia's budget and of the citizens who are filling that budget. Be careful, article 37, reads: "Republic Institute for Information and the Internet performs the professional affairs and tasks of the state administration relating to," be careful now, "improvement, development and functioning of the information system of state authorities, local self-government and public services... ". Let's take a look at what it looks like today. (President: I would ask the MPs who are tired of leaving the hall and taking a walk, and they return so that we can work. Let's see what it looks like today. We have one republican organ that will spend certain resources to smarten up. There's already a certain period of time. Now let me ask you gentlemen who are going to vote for this bill, can you extract a copy of the birth certificate from any municipality? Can you do that? You can't. Can you trust citizenship? You can't. Why? There's no single database, there isn't, there isn't. I'd like to ask an example not to throw it away. You don't have in Belgrade... You're not from Belgrade, as far as I know, and DS, so all parties are mostly from Belgrade. So there's no unique database and there's no way you can do something like that. Now let's look further, he says – between state authorities and local self-government... Tell me, where did the Republic Information and Internet Institute help some local self-government to introduce such a kind of data use, to design, to find equipment, to make appropriate standardisation in operational systems and that based on unique standardisation, all public services within the framework of a local self-government can operate electronically? There isn't. It's not just Indjia Serbia, man, it's not just Indjia Serbia, Serbia is in all municipalities. It's not there. What's the money going to be spent on, which is why all this budget funding is being allocated to some of these state bodies? Let's look further, he says – in all other state bodies. I am very interested in whether the Republic Information and Internet Institute will be able to do applications, software introduction, hardware in the state bodies of the type of MUP. It won't work. He can't even come in there. Is he going to the Department of Defense? He can't even show up there. Is he going to the B.I.A.? He can't. Will he go to other intelligence services? He can't. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how much and for what do you spend your money on? I'm just going to tell you, say, do you know who checks for RIK those signatures you collect so you can hand over the list as a political party, what are you bringing here to RIK? The Department of the Interior. You don't have a database on whether these people are listed in the voter list. That's why we're asking for a single voter's list to be introduced, not to be introduced into the Republic Information Service. What is it now, suddenly some silence, you don't like it? But that's how it is. So the only thing you can brag about is some pilot projects. But, gentlemen and ladies, it's the eighth year you're in power, one way or another. You no longer have the right to pilot projects, you have to give results. The fact that someone's pitching for Belgrade, don't, sir, talk about it, you're wrong, you can only e-mail it, but it certainly isn't the merit of the Republic Information and Internet Service. Not all citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have a computer, have no internet connection and are unable to obtain it; a man has to travel several hundred or more miles to get to one paper to enroll the child in school. Don't brag about it. You obviously don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1104	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milos Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1105	Article 104 and Article 27 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Madam President, the way you spoke to the MPs a little bit is more than offensive. You know it's Friday, and Friday's not the day for the National Assembly to work, so we're working today. Working after 18 hours is an exception to the rules. You're able to implement that exception to the rules, you've done that, you've done that all the previous days. From what I understand and from what I hear, the ruling coalition's intention is to vote tonight. It's 9:37 a.m. You find it all in order that the MPs, who are in this room for days, especially the MPs of the opposition, are mostly sitting in their seats, following a law that is on the agenda, and may some time rise up and stand at the bottom of the hall to stretch their legs, advise them to take a walk, not to disturb you who work. What are you doing? You shall preside and warn the other Messengers of the people. If you think someone is in violation of order, you have the Rules of Procedure and apply them, remember the names of each of those who have violated order in the O.R. I don't see any of the other MPs complaining about it, I didn't hear it, maybe you heard it. I don't think saying it makes any sense. It would be wise for you to conduct this session in a manner that is appropriate and to respect the dignity of all MPs, without distinction, and, of course, at some point (and I think that this moment has already occurred) to interrupt this session and schedule it for a reasonable period of time, and that would be, according to the Rules of Procedure, next week at 10 o'clock. If you can't do that for any reason, schedule for Monday at 10:00 in the morning. I don't think it really makes any sense, when there's no constitutional deadline that stands out, we've pointed out a thousand times, that it's pushing itself to the end and it's rushing with some kind of emergency process, without any need at all. DSS-NS MPs reported mostly today according to their own amendments. There have been several occasions where we have also appeared on the subject of amendments to others, because it has pointed to the need to discuss something that is really controversial in a particular member of the bill in relation to the existing law. We did very little answering the Rules of Procedure, except when it was necessary and necessary. On several occasions, we used the rules of the Rules of Procedure to draw attention to the fact that there was a problem with the agreement on a committee in the National Assembly, that is true. When you add all this together, it can hardly happen that the DSS-NS MPs have interfered with your work in any way, in any way affecting the endless duration of this working day, and I would not say so for other MPs, especially since we have all been witnesses that MPs have reported that they are discussing the amendments they have submitted, which is their right and obligation to the citizens who have elected them in this country. Even if the MP rises from his place, stretches his legs and turns to another MP, quite far from the microphone, far away from the place where the MPs address others and the citizens of Serbia, if it bothers you because you are too tired and titres in front of your eyes, it does not mean that it gives you the right to insult the MPs of the people. You have no right to do so, and I ask you to apologize, since you have addressed an indefinite number of MPs when you made that remark. The most beautiful thing I ask you to do today is to bring this debate to an end. I really don't think there's any need or purpose to sit and argue until 10 - 11 tonight or vote at midnight. There's no reason for that. If the debate is not exhausted until a reasonable time, then it is transferred to the next working day, ends in the next half hour or hour, the laws are published in "The Official Messenger", you wrote there anyway, which you will certainly vote on, to take effect on the day of publication (which, of course, is wrong but it will probably be) and then somewhere from 12 hours, one day continue with the further program of work, as you imagined.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1106	Thank you. At one point, we didn't hear a speaker at all, and that's why I asked that those who are tired allow us to keep track of the work. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1107	So, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a member just like the one advertised by Mr Milos Aligrudic. You, ma'am, are a neuropsychiatrist and your basic role and the task is to deal with human health. We worked till 10:00 last night. We started at 10:00 this morning. So, does this pace of work mean anything to you as a doctor? Is that humane? Is it normal to work this long? I don't understand your need for speed. Is someone pressing you? Does anyone give you any conditions? Did you promise anyone anything? Does anyone ask you to keep those promises? What's this about? What's the reason for your speed? When he drives fast, when he chases fast, he gets hurt. No speed required. I think we have plenty of time to stop this session at this moment and schedule it for Monday at a reasonable time, at 10:00 in the morning, and bring this discussion to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1108	Thank you. The title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Mr. Plužarević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38. It concerns the Foreign Investment Agency and the promotion of exports. The ministry law you're promoting today is just a farce. From that farce, Serbia will suffer from nausea and misery for more than half of our population. It is known that this law should satisfy only the coalition wishes of political parties entering that circuit. The circuit started to turn around. The ringleader is supposed to be pleased that with a white handkerchief lifted, he let the bosses know to be patient, he'll be fine, just to send the bosses the money. What money? Well, our own money in their hands. The law is made by will and desire in the means of informing already described characters that will connect incompatible, which will separate logically inseparable. They'll do anything to make everyone, everyone, happy. The pleasure will last for a while, and the lelek will be heard all the way to Brussels, perhaps even to Washington. Perhaps the ministry law would be good for this Europe if the European teacher saw this law, but, don't lie to the devil, the law is so slow that the radius of its movement is measured by snail impulses, slowly and surely, but it has to be wet. The leaven's name is Solana. He doesn't know anything either, whether to wet or dry. They say colleagues, the law is problematic because of 24 ministries, and those rich countries of Europe couldn't finance it, and we're going to finance it. Will the government, with these ministries, do more damage than good? Yeah, well, that's what the promoter knows, but he doesn't care about it. Belgium has 20 ministries, Spain 18, Germany 16, USA 14, Slovenia 17, Croatia 18. And how much energy and ignorance you've used to get the status of urgency, we've seen it tonight, we've experienced it in the previous work of the board and the Assembly itself. Every day of the assembly and you, gentlemen who run this part of the business, it's for analysis. The constitution is being violated, the Rules of Procedure is being broken, basic political principles are being violated, and even we should call the democratic rights of Serbia that has nothing to do with it. The ministries are supposed to live, the agencies have come along; e, these agencies are only information and money collection services, which usually lose all traces. The agencies are the suburbs of all suspicious financial transfers, and the control of these agencies is done by those who organized them. Well, that's the basic problem of every agency, they'll be working (and working) on who and how. This amendment that we propose to delete the title and the whole text under the title and lets you know that you're not sure what you're doing. Aren't you aware that you are doing this member and this ministry law to our people and neighbors only evil? You get neighbors excited by the fact that you're richer than them, and in fact, that's not true. This agency you're proposing needs, according to my amendment, to delete. I know you don't want to, but because of the history of Serbian radicals, it will remain in the stenographic notes and this. We went public in Gracanica and Kosovo Mitrovica on 5 April 2008 with data that human organs trade in the area of Kosovo and Metohija took its toll. After that date, information was reported in a slow manner. Why are the media keeping quiet about this issue, and the agency I'm talking about today is collecting some data? Do you know which, perhaps? To sell that giant like Blepcha for a fish-tep. Then our delegations retreat, just when this topic was to be discussed in Strasbourg. I wonder who it is that wants this topic to be pushed under the carpet and that time covers this problem with moss. And you, by this law on ministries, are increasing, apparently, European roads, spreading them, to which these white-world mobsters would do wonders in our space. Does this Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion aim to prepare and direct both drug and intoxicating routes towards this Europe of yours? It all seems to me that these agencies serve those purposes as well. We have come from reliable sources to know that all these agencies can't rest on that system of "and where I am" so that foreign investors and partners can't settle so many of those who think of themselves as "where I am". As I entered the Assembly of Citizens building, I was recognized by the Serbian Radical Party's badge and gave me a message that reads: fight against this yellow gang, don't let them sell this little land that's left, don't give it to them, because if they sell it, they sold us too. All of these agencies make up the semi-parasitic syndrome of certain ministries because of the staff that are autonomous, that is, they are sometimes more important than the ministries themselves. You're saying these agencies are reducing the foreign trade deficit. What black deficit? Well, we're in so much trouble that we're slowly sinking into a debt crisis. The Agency is preparing a promotion of exports, but your export direction is not directed west, and you swear to it at every place and every step, it is the last destination of Shid. So our goods don't have the right to go any further. And this agency is in a robbery system through your municipal and district committees of the Democratic Party. Everything you've sold and what you've made preparations for through this agency, it's all gone. Oversight over this agency has the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, there will be a great battle. They know the citizens, and so do you, honourable MPs, who run these agencies. We Serbian radicals have shown you during this session, and we point out that all of this is to the detriment of our Serbian citizens. Your departments are big, they're big and their numbers are big, but that's none of your business. None of you came out to defend these laws. You just lie with your shoulders, and when we look at you from this pay phone and point to mistakes, you just take your eyes off, in one word, keep your mouth shut. And that silence of yours is a sign that the government serves you to meet your personal needs. Now, dear citizens of Serbia, you've got a TV feed now, so draw a conclusion from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1110	Thank you. Mr. Momchilov picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1111	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vita Plužarevic put in front of the SRS a constructive proposal for you to nicely delete both Article 38 and the title. What my colleague, Vice-President of Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's assembly, said on the line is what Mr. Plužarevic said. In fact, we find it irresponsible from the state that, with the general laughter and satisfaction of some, in this way, an archeological pair in a transition, poor country. I would be free to say, you Europeans have recently published a major book; Mr Djelic carried it to officials from abroad to boast of it. There's a health department there. It is well written there that the ministry will receive hundreds of new employees, and that the Health Insurance Office will receive 300 new employees. It's a policy this new government is going to run, and that's what needs to be known. One irrational, vermin government that employs its staff and provides a better life for a small privileged group of party members. What DSS colleagues advertised also deserves attention. Madam President of Parliament, this debate, with this kind of noise as at the market, at this time of night, is the collapse of parliamentary democracy, and you are doing it with a united force. Clearly, in the elections we got recycled DOS, we got a mastodon organism of 19 parties that made it up. The DS jaundice should cure transfusions of fresh SPS blood, PUPS and Unique Serbia, and there are no problems. However, the laws you've given us to discuss, which are ridiculous, the way you explained them, the way a debate is conducted without an authorised representative, where you won't hear or react to objections, it's a shame and a shame that this Parliament today characterises. Thus, the totalitarian regime, led by Mr Tadic, is being seduced by the puppet regime, it is quite clear. To honor you, this House and this Parliament's leadership. But, you know, Serbian radicals, and I believe the rest of the true opposition, not the Camelot, we are time, we are not time, it will stop you in your intentions, and the intention is to betray the vital interests of the Serbian people and the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1112	Mr. Arsic answered his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1113	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Member of the 38th Amendment, refers to the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency. The member himself says: "The Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion is carrying out professional jobs relating to the promotion of foreign direct investment in the Republic of Serbia and covering: preparing, developing and presenting information on the various business opportunities and advantages of investments in the economy of the Republic of Serbia... ". I can ask a question about this first sentence of this article – and what has this Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency done so far? The results, when it comes to foreign investment and promotion of exports, are very modest, to say insignificant. But it's important that one part of the state's apparatus is re-realized, increased, multiplied to have party officials, colleagues, friends, relatives employed. It is a shame that is on the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but to say even less damage. The greater damage is this – and what is the Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion doing? Here, I'm asking a question, who is all given confidential information on the mineral wealth that the Republic of Serbia has, to whom all, for what money, who will exploit? Furthermore, you have one current, bad policy, which is that under research, which is neither a concession nor a state compensation, etc., it is the right to abuse and exploit mineral sites in the Republic of Serbia, which is the new one, which is a wealth that belongs neither to this government nor to these generations now living in Serbia, but also to the future of Serbia. That's the problem this agency is facing. I can also say that the other type of damage the Agency is doing is not dealing with the fact that this foreign investment will be for the purpose of creating new jobs, but only, in more than 90% of the cases, foreign investment comes down to the fact that the Serbian market is won, not to open jobs, but to open various hypermarkets from other countries, other supply companies, etc. I'll give you an example of local self-government in Pogorevec. They know there is, and it's right through that foreign investment agency, more extraordinary locations to open up some hypermarkets, but local self-government in its programme predicted it to be production plants. They came to us, offered everything and everything, just to let them open up a hypermarket, that is, cancel the act on a detailed urban plan. You didn't let them do that. Where did you get it in the fireman? Braničevski County, whose headquarters and administrative centre of Pozarec, has about 250,000 inhabitants, has about 70,000 residents on temporary work abroad, and represents an extraordinary market. Braničevski County has yet another advantage, which is that it is the second cereal plant in Serbia. None of those gentlemen came to say, let's open a factory for the processing of agricultural products. It's got a location. Here you go. Let's open up the meat industry, the location exists, here you go; let's invest in livestock, land exists, locations exist, please. So what's this agency of yours doing? Whatever she's into -- how to get someone to take as little money as possible, to ruin not only us but also generations after us. In this direction goes your policy and your Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion. There's another kind of abuse. He says, "The Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion is being supervised by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. "Now watch this. No one else, but Mladjan Dinkic. As insignificant as that may seem to you, any authorisation to import any raw material must pass through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. If anyone tries to interfere with the market reserved for you from the "yellow company", they will feel the power of the state administration, the Agency and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. I will give only one example; citizens, businessmen have called me: a legal person who has an orderly license for the production of weapons, ammunition and low-explosive funds is given regular import permits; consent from the Ministry of Defence has been given. The problem arises in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development; they keep raw materials at the border. Why? Because it's about exports. You know what they say to a man? They say, no problem, just sign the technical agreement with the SDPR, and you'll solve all the problems for the commission. That's why we can't go ahead with you the way you are. You can drill into your chest, maybe in the next day you'll be as happy as when you formed the government of Zoran Zivkovic and sang here, as if you had won the election. I believe you'll do so on Monday, Tuesday. God, ask yourself what you'll do in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1114	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted to the 44th Amendment by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1115	Dear Presidency, the next three LDP amendments are technical amendments resulting from amendments tabled on earlier members and concern the entry into force of the law. We think that we have been able to say what we wanted in the debate for several days and that it is not necessary for us to participate in all three amendments in detail now just so that the debate lasts as long as possible, so we will not report again. Let's just say two words to repeat the underlying regrets. So, in our opinion, this law provides for too many ministries for a country where so much public spending is. We ask the ruling majority once again to ask the ruling majority to reconsider whether the number of ministries is necessary. In particular, we urge you to reconsider the two amendments we have submitted: one concerning the extension of the human and minority rights ministry's competence, and the other concerning the obligation to comply with Serbia's positive rules with European Union rules. We think that they are in no way hurting and that they are in line with all that we have heard from all the MPs in the Serbian Parliament over the past few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1116	Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1117	The Honorable Presidency, I called as soon as you read that the amendment was submitted by the LDP parliamentary group, but you're probably tired too; we're not, so I'd just like to say the next thing you know about the abolition of the Diaspora Ministry. It is therefore very interesting that the LDP parliamentary group has submitted the amendment, a party that advocates better people's lives and puts a man first. When we say the Ministry of Diaspora, then we're actually talking about 3.5 million of our countrymen living in a distraction. Of course, these people have, in addition to all the problems we all have and what life carries, some specific problems that result from not living in their home country. It is possible that the LDP is irritated by the fact that since its founding, it has been irritated by the fact that there were two Kostunica governments, there will be a god still to be ruled by Mr Vojislav Kostunica... But the fact is that for the first time this ministry was formed in 2004 precisely out of the need to send a clear signal as state to take care of our diaspora. So we're a country and a people who have a lot of their countrymen out of the country of origin. It's also an accident, but it can also be a positive thing, given the experiences of these people that they achieve in different environments. I would especially draw attention to the fact that we had a big wave during the 1990s. Unfortunately, this wave lasts and after 2000, so a lot of young people went to so-called. Economic emigration is estimated to be close to 500,000 young educated people outside our country. This can certainly be the potential that we should take advantage of as a smart country, because a large part of these young educated people, now and in mature years, are people who can be very helpful to our country in terms of political, cultural, but also economic integration with the countries in which they live. So you absolutely need to keep the Ministry of Diaspora. That ministry needs to make it more efficient. What should be the primary goal of this ministry is to create a single base of our diaspora in order to have as detailed as possible and more accurate data on them. So I would ask the ruling majority not to adopt an amendment submitted by the Liberal Democratic Party, and I know it will be. The amendment, of course, will not support the DSS-New Serbia parliamentary group either.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1118	The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 49th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1119	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 53. Proposal for a law on ministries. That amendment is in accordance with Article 196(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that laws and other general acts enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may only enter into force earlier if there are particularly justified reasons for this, and that is the reason set out when they are adopted. Dear People's MPs, the question arises why has the bill promoter here knowingly violated the constitutional norm and why such a haste? There is a likelihood that the proponent had incorrectly or incendiary interpretation of the constitutional norm and therefore had done so. However, given that there are a lot of graduate lawyers, lawyers, etc., I suppose that's not the case, but something else. I would say it is either an accelerated entry into the EU or an accelerated division of prey. I would even say that this is the second one, because eight days is still a long period, a period in which anything can happen, so the proposer must have meant it when he gave this solution in the proposal for a ministry law. It has been in the history of all kinds of statesmen, politicians and diplomats who have done our domestic affairs in one way or another, who have tried to create the country's internal policy. Mostly the state has succeeded, at least so far, to adequately respond to all of this. But this time, that's not the case. It is certain that some "monters" have recently appeared in the state of Serbia. A major "monter" has appeared trying to "immobilise" the Serbian government, which is trying to influence who will be prime minister, who will be the first deputy prime minister, who will be this or that minister. In addition to this "monter", some others have appeared, I would say no less important, "mounters", which are also trying to "mount" our government. It's about our top tycoons who, with the help of this or that lobby, are trying to influence the formation of our government. Honorable MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, they do so for the simple reason that DS and the coalition gathered around this party are, in fact, suitable for that. The way you form a parliamentary majority, the way you form a government, the way you do all of this these days, you're actually a confirmation of that theory that the goal is not to choose a means, or you're a prototype and the theory that the goal is not to choose a means, by this theory being a collection of certain individual goals with the help of a specific goal, but you are the goal of money and only money. Money's the Commander-in-chief, money's your god and you other gods except for money you don't have. That's what you show at every step of the way. However, the urgency requires you to demonstrate immediately after the formation of the Government to the citizens of Serbia what you said in the pre-election campaign, which is -- both Kosovo and Serbia, and Kosovo and Europe, to demonstrate to them how you can achieve this, how you can keep Kosovo in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Then, you promised Serbian citizens crime control. How are you going to do that? Believe that those who participate in this must arrest half of their coalition partners. Furthermore, you promised Serbian citizens that you would employ 200,000 - 300,000 workers. How are you going to do that every day when we hear ominous words that 200,000 - 300,000 workers will lose their jobs in the next period? Next, you promised the pensioners a much bigger pension. What do you mean, do it? You have to explain that to me immediately after the formation of this government. You promised farmers really big words in the election campaign. Do you know that there are no Russian companies on our market anymore? You have to explain to agricultural producers in Serbia why Russian companies are no longer present on our market, why their agricultural products are rotting in the last month or two because there is no one to buy them; why a bag of artificial fertilizer is more expensive than a bag of sugar, why a litre of diesel is over a hundred dinars, etc. So, you'll have to explain all of this to the citizens of Serbia as soon as possible. You'll form this mounted government, we're sure of it, but the Serbian radicals are there, they'll always be behind you, and we'll always point to all your negativity, all your illegalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1120	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Mrs. Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this is the last amendment to the proposal for a law on ministries, to conclude this part of the debate, that is to say, in the shortest attempt to explain to the citizens of Serbia what it is that you, if you can come together tonight, are here to adopt. It remains unclear why such a haste remains unclear who wrote you a proposal of this law, because today we have heard that the promoters cannot adopt certain amendments that are absolutely justified, even in the opinion of the pieces of MPs who, unlike those who have come to vote, have indeed been here all day today. I mean this congregation majority. It remained unclear why you failed to comply with Article 196. The Constitution, and the fourth position of Article 196. The Constitution says that laws and other acts enter into force as early as the eighth day since the day of publication and that they may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. So when the proposer spoke about the proposal for this law, he failed to answer the question which is particularly justified reasons and whether there are any particularly justified reasons at all. This law, when you vote it in maybe an hour, already stands out there somewhere in the Official Messenger, with your party colleague Gavrilovic, waiting only for someone from here to call him on the phone, it's already printed, already the number of the official messenger has been established, just waiting to be told - the law passed, let the procedure go, and you can say that you are ready to form a government. As much as it is, we'll see, because your haste to pass this law at all costs, even at midnight, speaks of how secure the majority of you are and how sure you have agreed to form a government, how much, in fact, you're afraid that any of those with whom you've agreed to change your mind or, worse still, that you're looking for something else, and then you give it something at the expense (I'm talking about you "yellows", which is the backbone of this new government), and then you have to make some transge-fange combinations within your party. All that says is how much this is on the nodding feet. This is not the first time, but I believe that Serbia's citizens are fine to discuss every time about the government, now the ministry law, probably Monday and the government, by late evening hours. I will speak, Madam of the Union of Communists, Gorica Mojovic, as much as the Rules of Procedure allow me. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] If you don't like it, and you haven't been here all day and you haven't, as far as I'm concerned, had to come now... When we discuss the government, the concrete proposals of the future prime minister -- the newspaper says it is Mirko Cvetkovic, I have not heard that Boris Broz, the dictator of Serbia, told the media directly -- and when we see exactly what are the names offered to Serbian citizens, then they will see Serbian citizens as well as this future government, how bad this law is. We don't usually discuss the proposal for a government law or a proposal for a law on ministries, because we leave it to whoever forms a government to pass that law that will regulate the way the government functions itself and which are ministries, etc. This time we made an exception because you drastically changed both the state's relations and the formation of some new ministries and bypassed our amendments concerning the claim, through this law, that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. When you pass this law tonight, it will remain unclear whether you will really advocate that Kosovo and Metohija remain in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. It will remain unclear why you are reshaping the government so that you give all the money to Mladjan Dinkic at his disposal; all the people's money, that I wouldn't ask you why. It remains unclear why you form a government in the government through the National Investment Plan. There is much that remains unclear and which, I am quite sure, is unclear for the citizens of Serbia, even though we have been trying to make our views known here all day long. We are not vague, the citizens of Serbia have understood us. Rest assured, they didn't understand the coalition sitting on this side and voting for the government. You've started gathering around 19 hours, holding hands with each other so you don't run away, come in drunk and sick, like everything's gone. All right, you've succeeded, and whoever has 126 MPs has a congregation majority. We respect it as a democratically-oriented party, but make sure that the majority of Serbian citizens do not respect it, but do not respect it now. You already have problems in your own parties and with the citizens, you who eventually appear on the streets of your cities and places where you live. It's your choice, it's your thing. Unfortunately, a very bad choice for Serbian citizens, unfortunately another one, we hope not to be long, a period of new layoffs, the failure to provide new jobs, new expensive tuitions, the lack of pensions. Anything contrary to what you promised Serbian citizens. I'll see you when you discuss the government. You will hear our opinions about each minister individually. But the best, based on the government law and the law on the ministries that you are about to adopt tonight, cannot be for the benefit of Serbian citizens, because there will obviously not be any words about the socially responsible government, as Boris Broz likes to call her just to explain it inexplicably. It will be a prodigal government, unfortunately for the citizens of Serbia. We're here to criticize her, and right now, I hope you can make it and you've made it to secure the congregation's majority. We won't take part in the vote, but we'll be there to control how you do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-04-0.u1122	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, does the MP's representative Vlatko Ratkovic want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the proposal for a law on ministries, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since we have completed the debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as voting day, determines the 4th of July 2008, starting at 22.40 p.m. [[After break – 22.40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, in principle. For 127, against 29, one of the 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The MPs Slobodan Maras, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Ivan Andrić, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 1st amendment, in the same text. The representative of the proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, against 121, there were no votes of eight, of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Slobodan Maras, Zoran Krasic, Dr Vladan Batic and together Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. The representative of the proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, v. 127, two of the 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The representative of the proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, against 128, one of the 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and Jovan Palalic. The representative of the proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 128, two of the 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. The representative of the proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, out of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted the amendment to Article 5. The representative of the proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 127, there were no eight votes, out of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, in general. For 129, v 28, of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Government Act. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF MINISTRATIVES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on ministries to the vote, in principle. For 128, against 28, he did not vote one out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The People's MP, Slobodan Maras, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 124, they did not vote 23, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Two, against 127, were not voted 28 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, there were no 28 votes, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 30 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 126, there were no 11 votes, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, 29 of the 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 28 out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 107, it did not vote 28 out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 128, nine of the 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 28 out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26 out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, versus 127, there was no vote of 16 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 28 out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, 27 of the 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The proposer's representative and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, they did not vote 43, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 125, 12 of the 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 128, it did not vote eight out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 108, nine of 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 26 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 25 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 26 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, 27 of the 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 29 of the 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 28 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 128, against 10, it did not vote 13, out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 26 out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, against two, they did not vote 22, out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 125, they did not vote 24 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 26 of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 26 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 26 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Djorda Milicevic and Bozidar Delic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment of MP Djordj Milicevic, and did not accept the amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, he did not vote 31, out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, v. 127, there were no votes of eight, of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 127, they did not vote 24 out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above Article 14 and Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, 29 of the 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 96, two abstentions, six of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, they did not vote three out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above article 18 and article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 126, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 107, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18 against 107, they did not vote four out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, four of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 21 of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 84, it did not vote 28 out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 124, seven of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 26 of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 150, they did not vote two out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 27 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, they did not vote 23, out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 125, he did not vote 21 out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 126, there was no vote of 20, of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 23rd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 120, he did not vote 31, out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dejan Mirovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 23a be added after article 23. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 27 of the 151 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 126, six out of 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25 out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 25 of the 151 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 128, it did not vote 18 out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Radulovic submitted the 25th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 125, eight of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 127, it did not vote seven out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, three of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 121, two of the 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 30th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, one of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, one of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted to the 44th Amendment by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, they did not vote two out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 126, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 127, he did not vote one out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 128, he did not vote one out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, they did not vote two out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 47th Amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 122, seven of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 49th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 127, he did not vote one out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on ministries in general. For 128, against one, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on ministries. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Tomislav Nikolic indicated injuries at a session held on June 30th 2008 at 12.18h. 84, 138 and 161. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 125, they did not vote three out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. At a session held on 30 June 2008, MP Vjerica Radeta pointed to a violation of article 84 at 12.50. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. At a session held on 2 July 2008 at 21.35 p.m., MP Slobodan Maras pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 124, three of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. At a session held on 4 July 2008, MP Vjerica Radeta pointed to a violation of Article 31(2), Article 96, Article 100 of Rule 3 and Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Counter 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. At a session held on 4 July 2008 at 15:30 p.m., MP Sladjan Mijaljević pointed to infringements of Articles 104, 1 and 2. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 126, one of 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Thank you for your cooperation.
