ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11514	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for today's session to be attended by members of the government and Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the finance ministry, Mrs. Ruzica Stojiljkovic, assistant director of the Treasury Office. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. THE year (single details) was submitted to Article 2 of the amendment by MP Željko Tomic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1), so MP Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11515	It's Saturday, and we're obviously working Saturday. It's scheduled to be done tomorrow on Sunday. It's not funny at all, now you'll hear. A few weeks ago you also tried to work Saturdays, so you failed, because you can't work Saturdays, Sundays, late nights, having vampire sessions without an agreement with the opposition. If it wasn't for today or yesterday there was no deal at the meeting of the heads of parliament, you wouldn't be working today, so laugh as much as you want. The deal was reached, at least as far as the DSS is concerned, I speak for my group, for simple reasons. You've brought the state to teat when it comes to budget adoption. You haven't worked in summer for 45 days. During the fall, you worked with me on a stick. The working days were 2-3 a week, it was until 6:00 p.m., the sessions were interrupted at half seven p.m., reportedly transferring, 300 miracles, I don't know what the excuses were. Then you've made a terrible mistake in the past month and a half, putting in the agenda that took us ten days of debate. You left her on the agenda, voted, and you took off someone else for whom the Council of Europe has been chasing us for nine years to adopt as soon as possible. It's your way of doing it. You don't negotiate with the opposition about overtime. You schedule sessions on Saturdays and Sundays by force, all that the earlier ruling coalition in which the DSS participated has never worked. Then you're surprised about the consequences. Last night, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for consultations between the heads of parliament groups and for the second time in a week stressed the importance of working for the weekend, she stressed that it will work from 10 a.m. to 10 o'clock in the evening. One difference from earlier is that at least in time she informed us, even if she called, if nothing else, the day before and explained to us what your problem was. That's the problem you brought yourself into, the opposition didn't bring you in. Since there are only two days left until the legislative deadline for the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget, that is what you as the ruling coalition are facing, you are faced with a large number of amendments, not only by the opposition, but also by the ruling coalition, which speaks of the quality of the budget. That budget cannot be supported by the concept, because it is completely wrong, but the amendments that are submitted to that budget serve another purpose, to at least fix something from the hellish bad in it and the way it is. The length of the debate to be conducted under the amendments, as far as the DSS is concerned, is proportional to your willingness to enter into the essence of this debate and the willingness to accept key amendments that amend this text of the law. Here you go, in these next day or two, it's all up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11516	The word is by MP Dragana Todorovic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 27, and what Mr. Milos Aligrudic was surprised that you were going to work on Saturday, they're probably going to the market, so let's stop by the Assembly on the way. In a short time, this left-hand side will be empty, the two or three of them will remain, and the thing is over for them, as it will happen tomorrow. Madam Chairman, I have reported to you under Article 27 to draw attention that the President of the Assembly has remained in debt to some of the answers that we have set as a party and that you are persistently avoiding fulfilling your obligations. First of all, we're still waiting, first we've been waiting for the Home Office's report, now we're waiting for the prosecution's report on events at the SRS rally and the death of Ranko Panic. Still, after so many months, we don't have a report, or we don't know if an indictment has been filed against a person who has violated the law and excessively used force led to the death of Ranko Panic, I also remind you that we are waiting for an answer from the Foreign Ministry. What did the Foreign Ministry do about the English ambassador's beating up? I told you, it's perfectly normal for you, the ambassadors give you a list of the warrants you're doing. As far as the SRS is concerned, we're not gonna let that happen and we're asking that the state responds to the minimum of dignity that every country should have. You still haven't answered that. I warn you, it is high time you did your job in accordance with Article 27 and asked the competent authorities to do what they are asked to do. We can't wait a month for the foreign minister to remember to write a letter. First of all, we shouldn't have reminded him, it's something that's meant to be, something that the foreign ministry would react to immediately in every country. We've been giving you examples of how other countries do it. However, you are still silent. That's why I warn you to re-arguise with the authorities that these responses are being delivered to the MPs of the SRS and other MPs in the Serbian Parliament. As for today's work, we're going to work, we're going to work today, we're going to work tomorrow, we're going to work on Monday, because we're not going to give you that excuse, you're not trying to transfer responsibility to the SRS and the opposition parties to obstruct the work. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, I'm done. You who've been late with the budget for 40 days now want to adopt it when you're running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11518	There is no formal violation of article 27 because clearly no deadlines for answers are prescribed, but I am fully agreed to repeat the request. On the same day the request for an explanation was made at the speaker of the National Assembly, a letter was sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as previous requests for an explanation. So in today's day alone, and by message to the President, I will demand that the explanation be delivered, because the Assembly is made just as good MPs as the good practice that we agree on, which is - that the Government corresponds to the Assembly, which is the practice that we build together. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the Ambassador's injury and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11519	On the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, television announces this morning that the President of the National Assembly has announced that the budget will be adopted by the end of the regular session. Since it is a serious president of the National Assembly and since we are most serious people here in the O.R., some of us are not, I am interested in what makes the President of the National Assembly claim that the budget will be adopted, because it defines our behaviour in relation to this debate. So, if everything is going as it started yesterday, it could say that at the end of January a budget could be adopted. If there are any arrangements to be adopted by Monday, it's your turn to tell us. If you don't have any deal with the jerks, then we're just sitting there for nothing on Saturday, Sunday and Monday, because the budget won't be adopted. So please act like a serious majority in the National Assembly and tell us if you're punishing us so we're doing this on Saturday, Sunday and Monday in vain, after all the debate ends Monday at midnight and there's no more trace, even what's being discussed is no longer discussed or will come to some's head, some will start acting reasonablely and will allow the budget to be voted up to the deadline. So, I ask you to pass it on to the President of the National Assembly -- he really owes us that explanation, Saturday and Sunday are not working days for anyone, nor for the MPs. I understand the need to work on Saturdays and Sundays to vote on the budget, but if you're not sure that the budget will be voted on, I really don't want to listen to the jerks on Saturdays and Sundays without getting anything useful for the state out of it. Thank you. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11520	The word comes from MP Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. Now you've had a chance to see how a real lion behaves. You see, a lion whose heart has come down to its heels, because he is afraid of a deal, because it is not up to himself. He doesn't decide anything about himself anymore, he's decided by others. That's the problem. That's why he's appealing to you. Don't let him down, don't do anything you should've done otherwise, because the lion won't do anything. It is the fate of all those who choose to take such a step and who come in such a position. What to do - that's what I said in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11522	There's no breach of Article 104. He wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zoran Nikolic? No, I don't. People's MP Riza Halimi wants to talk about the Ambassador's injury and gets word from Article 100(1). Excuse me, MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11523	Madam Chairman, ladies and People's MPs, I am asking the government what will be done about the serious excess of the official duties of members of the internal affairs in yesterday's Presevo raid? We already have four citizens from Presevo who were physically harassed yesterday, who got wrongly into certain houses, were also caused material damage, and most psychologically. After all, they are very drastically physically attacked. In a statement given by the president or head of the Co-ordination Body and conveyed to local managers, it was said that the action must not be politicised. We further have a statement from the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, who points out that this government demonstrates its determination to punish all crimes. So that's where the politicization begins. So, this government is the only one working on crimes, and wartimes, and the others aren't -- what is this, but direct politicization? We further have a statement by Minister Dacic saying that the leaders of this group have not been arrested since they are in Gjilan. Now, if it is war crimes that are a very serious topic, a very regrettable topic that requires and a serious approach to solving, I do not see now what is the need for such politicisation, for a media spectacle, in which people were brought to Belgrade as at that time -- slaves, after the Roman march, before the crowd, we know the scenes from these films. Who needs such spectacles? The raid started in half four, witnesses were brought in at seven to three hours without witnesses. Is that legally based? What could have helped with the TV footage? Was there a director in that TV video? That something was needed is given to the public, and what is bullying and endangering human rights is of course not given. I think I end up in the end, it's a serious matter. All crimes, on either side, should be seriously questioned and the culprits brought to justice, but in this direction citizens who were there for four, five, eight years and suddenly brought to justice at all times. A few days ago, an ordinary police patrol stopped one of them (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ..and put him in court for another case. Why does a family now have to go to 30, 40, a hundred gendarmes, to surround the street, to make these scenes that aren't new? One of these people who has also been arrested here again, I think it is a man who, two years ago, Selimov Sadiki, was punished for two years for organised crime -- the translation of Albanians through Kosovo and Presevo to Belgrade, Hungary or Croatia. He was released to defend himself from freedom, but two years ago in his brother's house everything was broken. At four o'clock in the morning, the kids were amazed when a SWAT team came in through the windows and doors. After half an hour, it turns out they got into the wrong house. This man has been punished for all this talk for two years. (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds, please, MP, to finish your presentation). In two years' time, do we need these kind of spectacles in this time, especially for such a serious topic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11524	Anyone else want a word? National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11525	According to Article 104, and as soon as Mr. Halimi came out, I assumed what he was going to talk about. I understand him as a man, he lives in Presevo, and now he needs to be down there with those people to be in the store, on the street, but it's not state policy, Mr. Halimi. You can't defend war criminals, you can't talk about how directed it is when people get arrested in front of cameras. God forbid there wasn't any footage, you'd say anything here. True, I don't like people being arrested by camera escorts, but everything that happens in Presevo and Bujanovac has to be recorded, because you have an open door to all the world organizations where you complain about a violation of your rights. If what the state is telling us is true, and you're part of that state and part of the government of that state, then you check that they're lying to you first, terrorists are arrested. There is no mercy there, Mr. Halimi, so that the Serb, the Albanian, is what it is called, and there is no state in the world that would arrest in a mild manner, by calling the police station. Such people are arrested suddenly and led like slaves, to see how the state treats terrorists. I'm ready, whenever these yellow ones make you uncomfortable because they're rude, because they use the power of the congregation's majority, I'm ready to stand in your protection. But when you, too, with no fire at all, just to justify yourself in front of your countrymen, make up stories here about excessive use of force in arresting terrorists, you won't have our protection. So until it's proven that the police are wrong, I'm saying you're wrong. And the fact that someone is convicted of a crime, and now arrested for terrorism, what do you think, goes to red light, hurts someone, does some kind of punishment, and now he can deal with terrorism, since he's already been in prison. Mr. Halimi, I don't think you'll find in front of this assembly an interviewer who would have accepted that the police shouldn't have gone to Presevo and Bujanovac yesterday to arrest terrorists.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11526	Anyone else want a word? National MP Riza Halimi, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't ask for protection, not now or then, three or four days ago, when I was drastically and without arguments attacked by a government minister. I'm talking about it, and I've asked the government what they're going to do only for overruns for innocent, innocent people, who have nothing to do with this event, who suffered injuries and injuries yesterday and all kinds of injuries, physical and mental and moral. Did you see a man like his eyes flooded with beatings and got into his house wrong? You saw that on B 92. That's what I'm talking about here, and I'm asking the government to tell us -- what are they going to do to make sure that citizens sleep peacefully in their homes in the future and don't expect every minute of their lives to fall through the windows and doors of the gendarmes? That's what I'm talking about, not the ones who committed any crime. Let the war criminal answer, I think it was really a little bit of work there. There are also among Albanians and Serbs, even among the members of state authorities who have committed serious injuries, and crimes and murders, which have so far not responded. I'm really asking, regardless of the national background, wherever people come from, that everyone responds in order, and most strictly, as our and world practice has purposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11528	National MP, your request for notification of the possible overrun of the authority of the members of the MUP will be forwarded to the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as information must be provided in the Ministry and delivered to the People's MP on request. National MP Branko Ruzic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11529	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise Article 104. Rules of Procedure. It is really unclear here that the government of the Republic of Serbia, by the perception of Mr. Halimi, does not have the right to deal with what her job is, which is to fight crime and crime. There is no other government in Serbia, Mr. Halimi, but a single government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, it is unclear what psychological and physical pain is suffered by those who are, for the very reason that you are implying, recorded during yesterday's action without mentioning, on the other hand, the psychological and physical pain of those who were killed by those who were arrested yesterday morning. When you talk about seven or eight years these same criminals have been at large, of course the Serbian government, as a serious government, and its organs will not arrest anyone without enough evidence. Now came the moment when it happened and that's why they were arrested. They were filmed just so that some organisations, such as Natasa Kandic, on a television channel in the diary, would not talk about how human rights were violated or overruled. What's good, what we've heard from you here, is that we all share the same policy, which is to fight crime. The criminal can't have an ethical framework, he can't have that restriction. Whether it's an Albanian, a Serb, anyone else, the Russian, Hungary, has to answer. I think this discussion and controversy should be interrupted, with the understanding of your personal position for where you come from, because of your neighbors and your countrymen you live with. However, I'm sure you support the fight against crime and crime, and I'm sure the authorities will properly prosecute these criminals and you have no right to, because that violates the Constitution, that you are talking about some members of the state's authorities committing crimes without informing the prosecution. Do it and then the government will prosecute them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11530	There's no breach of Article 104. There was a suspicion that there was an excess of authority. On this basis, we will send a request to the MUP to submit to the People's Parliament, to the National Assembly and to the Security Committee a report on whether or not there has been an unauthorized overrun, because in the application of the law there cannot be human rights violations which, during the application of these laws, are guaranteed to all participants in the process. Does anyone else want a word? National MP Zika Gojkovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11531	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, breach of Rules of Procedure in Rule 104. I'd like to invite all MPs back to the agenda one more time. A few MPs were here before we entered the O.R., and they expressed regret about Saturdays and Sundays, so if that's the case, let's do it on the agenda, because of what we're here for today. I just have to say one thing, I can't agree with what Mr. Halimi said at the pay phone. The only thing I can agree with him is that of course we should condemn all crimes, that crimes do not have a national framework. But, Mr. Halimi, they can't even have a political framework, and that's exactly what you're doing behind this speaker and what you were doing yesterday, making statements in the media. The SPO has always condemned all crimes, regardless of where and from which they came and at a time when it was very difficult and ungrateful to speak, especially in terms of collecting political points. I have never seen, Mr. Halimi, that you went out for this pay phone and said that the process of killing the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic, has not yet been completed, what about the process that is evident when it comes to the murder of the Ibarian magistrate and everyone else, other processes, where people from other nationalities have been killed. I would like to say that the SPO fully supports what Mr Markovic, one of the best ministers, not only of this government, but since 2000, has presented behind this pay phone and the way that he tries to introduce both Serbia and these institutions in one normal way, how they work and function all normal countries in the EU, to those who are seeking Serbia. The facts he put out behind this speaker, Mr. Halimi, say you shouldn't go out for a pay phone in this context anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11532	There's no breach of Article 104. People's MPs have the right to use whatever the Rules of Procedure has given them. People's MP Riza Halimi has a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11533	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you're talking about politicizing my question. The question was based on Rules of Procedure, 221 and 226. I've asked the government a perfectly correct question, and I see that there is a tendency to politicize that of all speakers and to go to moralization, which I didn't do. I asked a very correct question. Which is why right now, the need for all the parliamentary groups based on you attacking me to get cheap political points. That's my question now. It is not true, Mr. Ruzic, that I have not set specific examples for this speaker. I repeat, the Sacipi brothers, civilians, were killed by police in February 2000 and no court proceedings have been opened so far. There are others, but enough for your question to say this. About the murders that SPO representatives spoke of, when there was time and through a statement from my party, I presented my own and personal and the views of my political party. It would be inappropriate to talk about this right now. It would be a low level if I were to say now that I am sorry or not sorry, when I was at that time, when I was supposed to express my views, like all the others, at the moment when these tragic events took place in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11534	National MP Zoran Ostojić wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11535	President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I wanted to repel this debate, that it didn't slip into something I don't think we should continue, 104-injuring the Parliament's dignity. To begin with, the murderers of Zoran Djindjic were convicted, so that there would be no confusion with the citizens, they were convicted and as far as they know they were confirmed in the third degree. Secondly, I listened carefully to this controversy, I'm not sitting on my ears, Mr. Halimi said that when he was arrested, in his opinion, people were being abused or over-authorized in some cases where people were not being detained, they accidentally entered the house by mistake, etc. That's all he asked. He didn't say anything else, with the addition that those who are guilty should respond, if they are terrorists to be tried, they were arrested as they were arrested. I don't really see the reason here, whenever Mr. Halimi comes out, even though this situation is truly delicate, sad and tragic and for the crimes of the victims, because eight years have been waiting for these people to find themselves, that there's really a lot of going around in the direction of cheap political points. If those who were wrongly beaten or misapplied by excessive force, and were not those who were to be arrested, it was not recorded and it was not shown. What's the big deal now? I'll remind you at the end of the day, many on this side, how long have we talked here about over-authorization and over-use of force in the event of unfortunate Panic? How many times have we talked here about people being arrested from "Sabree"? We talked. Now I don't see the reason why when you mention it, we all jump on Halimi. Those who are terrorists, they have been brought in and will be tried. I hope they get convicted. Those who, if someone was beaten up there and wrongly hacked into his house, the police will apologize and I don't see any reason why we're here right now arguing with Halimi, who needs to say that, because eventually it comes from there and represents those citizens. All those who committed crimes should respond. What's so controversial about that? Everyone who didn't commit crimes doesn't need the police to beat them. Is there something going on here? It's not. Is it supposed to be filmed? Remember, many were complaining and protesting why it was recorded during "Sablje", and then we all protested and felt it was wrong for Djajic to film himself like that. So let's leave it for another story. I'm just saying go back to the important things, get back to the money, get out of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11536	There is no breach of Article 104, and the request for an explanation on two occasions, you can make an insight into the stenogram, will be forwarded. MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11537	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, I use my right to the Rules of Procedure to talk about the agenda point, that is, the 2009 draft budget. The DSS Group has submitted a large number of amendments to Article 2 for the simple reason that we want the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to point out the objective concern of the DSS when it comes to the deficit of this budget of 1.5% agreed with the IMF, but which, in our opinion and we are convinced, I will make certain facts absolutely unrealistic just as unrealistic as this proposed budget. So what I'm going to say is the basic data that characterizes this budget, I'm going to go over them in a short time, the budget proposed for 2009 is projected at 698 billion 756 million, and it is an increase of 7.4% compared to the 2008 budget. If we take into account the revised budget and economic and fiscal policy memorandum for the period 2009 to 2011, we see that this macroeconomic projection is greatly changing and GDP growth, which in this year was or will be, let's wait 31, somewhere between 6 and 6.5%, that it decreases to 3 to 3.5%, that we will have a realistic half-investment in the following year compared to this year, that labour productivity decreases from 6% to 4%. If we have these parameters and these inputs, the question is, on the basis of which we have a budget projection that is larger than in 2008 of 7.4%. A colleague from the Democratic Party, Mr. Vujadinovic, likes to talk to numbers. Here, now I'm taking the numbers out here. Why do we claim that this budget in the beginning is unrealistic and that it is invaluable? For a simple reason, let's compare the implementation of the 2008 budget. The DSS Group of MPs, a while ago, and we are grateful to the Ministry of Finance, for that response, asked for information to see the implementation of the 2008 budget. Before I present this information, I would like to say that the finance minister told us in December that budget income is even higher than expected, that they are satisfied with it and that it is somewhere at 54 billion. In the response provided by your ministry, it is said, since the budget, therefore, with the rebalance that we adopted a month and a half ago, so the amount of the 2008 budget was about 650 billion, and the achievement, or implementation of the budget, on December 3rd, is 566 billion. If we add the planned revenue and income projectors in December, which I believe you have realistically assessed, when we add 54 billion, we have a total budget of 620 billion and unfortunately for the 2008 budget is 30 billion. This is the best and most picturesque of all about the economic policy of this government. I'm going to remind you one more time that we adopted budget rebalancing in November a month and a half ago. There was a lot of knowledge of the economic crisis. It was well known and could be assumed that this economic crisis would come and knock on our door. Much stronger, organised states, at this point their top economic and financial representatives say that the consequences of the economic crisis are difficult to predict, and at that time we adopted a budget that was not restrictive, on the contrary, it was wasteful and it served to satisfy certain political parties that make up this government in order to meet the wishes. What's worst in this whole thing, none of that pre-election promise or that list of wishes that you've given to citizens in the pre-election campaign, even with such an unreal budget, you couldn't make it happen. But after the state, we'll see on December 31st, or January 1st, you left it at the beginning at a minus 30 billion. If not, I'd like the minister to come out here and say that, as far as budget implementation is concerned, we won't have less than 30 billion in 2008. If we start from that assumption that only a month and a half ago the government couldn't project economic events and that it couldn't precisely determine which budget was real in our country, then why would we believe that this budget that was now proposed, and I said that macroeconomic parameters were reduced and that they were changed, that this budget would happen? With great certainty, almost 100%, I tell the citizens that this budget cannot be achieved. He is invaluable for the simple reason that the inputs that are provided here are simply not realistic. One of the most significant revenues in the budget is VAT taxes, and it is foreseen according to the budget's proposal to be realised in 2009 at 338.8 billion dinars. This makes some growth compared to the year 2008 of 10%. I don't know what? If we plan to grow a GDP of 3%-3.5%, if we know that investments will be halved, if we know that labour productivity will fall, if in this context we take last night's collapse of social dialogue between employers, trade unions and states, with consequences that neither the government nor the opposition can predict, I don't know what these funds are planning on. The 2008 experience, i.e. already concrete data, when it comes to the implementation, or implementation of the 2008 budget, can only point to one thing - that the dubiosis in 2009 will be even greater. Look, the governor of the National Bank came forward about 5-6 days ago, a man obviously wants to have an alibi, and he says that we will probably be rebalanced in March or April of the budget, that this budget rebalance will not be in terms of the increase in funds, i.e. inflows and budget increases, but probably, if there is wisdom in the government, and if the government wants to crash with reality, that budget will be realistic, or restrictive, as it should be, and he's not. Then we get into those political waters. The government that late delivered the budget, the government that broke and the Budgetary System Act brought us to a quote that in 2-3 days we have to declare this budget. There is an attempt to transfer that the opposition is to blame that any budget will not be adopted. This morning, I heard in the news that the prime minister is appealing to the opposition to adopt the budget, so that the government can implement an adequate economic policy, in line with this budget. I am telling Mr Cvetkovic that he or she has not read this budget, which is a very possible variant, because he obviously does not interfere in his business, or is still harshly misleading the citizens, which is one very serious thing, because he does it in continuity. It did not work in the campaign, it was done by its political mecenaries, but now as prime minister, it is making even greater damage to the citizens of Serbia by spreading disinformation from the prime minister, the first man of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and not simply telling the truth. The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed a series of economic law over the past two months to meet the economic crisis and problems that may arise. I will remind you that two months ago we proposed a law on amendments to the Law on Income Tax, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act. The legendary secretary of state, Mr. Sasa Ilic, said it was absolutely unnecessary about a month and a half ago, that we would have voted for the law the other day, but we could have done it two months ago, we could have done one big part of the work, so in this time, so in the last month and a half, we've done some other things. We also made a proposal, which the assembly majority rejected, to form a committee to monitor the global economic crisis and take measures to mitigate the negative impact on the economy and on the economy of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry, that's what you refused, you didn't allow representatives of the National Bank, of this Parliament and of the Government, to form a joint committee to know what economic, economic and financial situation we are in. I'm saying that we voted that commission a month and a half ago, so we'd have a lot less problems about adopting this budget, to get through that joint commission to one, to say, a filtered draft budget that wouldn't cause so much controversy and so much, in the end line, of the amendment. So, the facts are saying, and that's official information from the government, that with December 3rd, we have, and based on the funds that the minister has, and I have absolutely no reason to doubt your projection and your data, therefore, based on the 54 billion that are to come together in December, the deficit in 2008 is 30 billion. That's certainly not good. Another 30 billion to the deficit. So this is where the deficit is included. I apologize for going into dialogue like this now, but about your estimate, by the way, is that the deficit is going to be about 15 billion, and now we see that it's twice as big, so it's going to be about 30 billion. What can be assumed from this unrealistic budget is that these macroeconomic parameters will have to change. They'll have to go down even lower. Although here, from this pay phone, the minister assured that the IMF talks did not matter that there would be any correction of macroeconomic indicators, let's leave that time and January to see if that's the case. About pensions and what is the essence of this non-restrictive budget, therefore, and this is a wasteful budget, what is terrible is that the burden of this budget is being allocated to pensioners, which the PUPS simply, the real word, is that it has betrayed, betrayed, cheated in the most dense way possible. Because in the 2009 budget, pensions will remain frozen at 31 December 2008. If we just include an inflation rate of 8.5%, what I can say from this place is that pensions will be at least 8.5% on 31 December 2009. That's this government, and that's what you, as representatives of the pensioners in that government, have allowed. That's why you're so aggressively silent, and you can't go out for this pay phone, because you've cheated on your target group, what you promised in the campaign, in the most disgusting way possible. There's more fraud, but this one, given the status of pensioners and the incomes that over a million pensioners have, which are really small, is the most recent example. What is ecldent and what the public should know is that, in talks with the IMF, by making its calculations, the IMF was ready to allow an increase of 5% of pensions in the following year and to coordinate on an annual level with inflation, which would be some increase in pensions of 13-14%. However, it seems that we have come to a paradoxical situation that more the IMF has protected the interests of socially endangered citizens than the government has done. Also, the good thing about the talks with the IMF is that our government has proposed, and that the public should know, and Serbian businessmen should know, at the very end of the line, that Serbian citizens, which would have hit the most, that the government has proposed an 18% VAT increase. It seems again that the IMF has better understood the economic situation and protected citizens' interests. This shows that the government absolutely does not have any policy, that the simply need to fill the budget, that the figures fascinate this parliament, and then the interested groups that are the beneficiaries of the budget, will simply come to the charge in very close time, as in a month and two. So what I think and what I can express as information, the transfer funds to municipalities will not be realised in December. Believe me, for many municipalities, non-payment of transfer funds will result in many municipalities being unable (President: 15 minutes and 30 seconds). ) to pay the wages. I'll finish. Since we know how to fill the budget in January, I think there will be problems in the transfer and January. All in all, this budget is, at the very beginning, doomed to failure. The next amendment to be discussed is my amendment. The Minister, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has adopted the amendment and I am grateful for that, but it is not enough. (President: 16 minutes. ) Absolutely, it does not change the essence and concept of this budget which, as I said, is not rational, or is not realistic and is not restrictive, as you have presented it here. Many citizens, there will be a lot of problems in next year, and this is primarily due to the government's irresponsible relationship to the economy, economy and financial situation of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11538	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Excuse me, People's MP, the MP of the Free Maras wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I understood that he also called in to discuss details. National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11539	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I will report that I am talking about the law in particular, but I must inform, in accordance with Article. 225th and 226, to ask for an explanation. In accordance with Article 77 of our Rules of Procedure, last night at the Serbian Parliament arrived late last night from the Constitutional Court in writing, asking the Assembly to deliver an opinion to the Constitutional Court. So the pigeon who left seven days ago finally arrived in the congregation. Given the urgency of the issues and initiatives launched by the LDP, and according to the fact that a contract was signed with the Russian Federation, or Gazprom on the sale of NIS, we are asking the chairman of the Legislative Committee, and we have heard that the Legislative Committee will be at 11:15 today. However, since it is impossible for all MPs, who are members of the Legislative Committee, to get acquainted at the session itself with our initiative and the request of the Constitutional Court, we ask the President of the Legislative Committee to schedule a new session of the Legislative Committee on Monday, given that we are working both today and tomorrow and the day after. There is plenty of time for MPs, who are members of the Legislative Committee, to get acquainted with our initiative and what the Constitutional Court requires of the National Assembly. As far as we know, the government needs to make a statement about this. The government has shown willingness, or all members of the government, to read the 100-page contract within an hour and decide at the phone session to sell NIS by 51%. We expect the Government to be so quick on this matter, as well as from the National Assembly, or the President of the Legislative Committee, that after today's session of the Legislative Committee, a new session will be scheduled for Monday and that within the shortest period of time, the Constitutional Court may, in accordance with its powers, continue to act on this initiative and, according to us, make a decision that is, of course, in accordance with the law. I apologize for interrupting the debate on the agenda, but I would like to ask the chairman of the Legislative Committee to schedule a new session at the next session, which is in 15 minutes, for Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11540	The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11541	As chairman of the Legislative Committee, I am informing the MPs that a letter was received by the Constitutional Court yesterday at 6:15 p.m. and was delivered to me around 2:00 p.m. So, there are two initiatives to assess the constitutionality of the agreement in question -- an initiative to assess the constitutionality of certain provisions of the agreement, submitted by the LDP, and an initiative by Milan Kovacevic, a Belgrade citizen. I have ordered the Legislative Committee to copy this material, deliver it to all members of the Legislative Committee, as well as to the heads of Parliament. In agreement with my colleagues on the board, I'll schedule a session as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11542	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, allow me to allow you, at a time when Serbia is ruled by a major economic crisis, and in 2009, it will be even bigger, at a time when the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic invites citizens to defend their jobs, to introduce you to a phenomenon of classical crime in the Municipality of Stara Paz, whose main protagonists are, unfortunately, people from the DS. In fact, in the municipality of Stara Paz, there is a big move of land, so-called. The new banana loop, near Batajnica Airport. This land is, according to the current spatial plan, agricultural land. This agricultural land wants to usurp a company called "Log Center" d.o.o. Belgrade. They have already bought from farmers in the municipality of Stara Paz 54 hectares of agricultural land, at a price of four euros per square metre. What do they want now? They want the agricultural land to be translated into building land. When agricultural land is translated into building land, then the land's market price, which is currently four euros per square, becomes up to 7-8 times. Here's how the peasants got cheated. Unfortunately, the tax administration people, Mrs Dragutinovic, are involved in the fraud. They paid farmers 30% of the agricultural land price. The peasants were promised that the rest, or 70% of the price, would be paid once the land was translated from agricultural land into construction. Then with these contracts, they went to the Tax Administration in Old Paz, and there they paid taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, as if they paid the peasants a full price, not just 30% of the price. The tax administration placed a clause on the contracts for the sale of agricultural land that the tax on the transfer of absolute rights was paid and with those contracts, which included a tax-paid clause, these people from the "Log Centre" Belgrade are going to the Municipal Court in Stara Paz, and they registered there as owners of the agricultural land, I remind you, for now it is 54 hectares of land. The company registered as the owner of the land, although the peasants did not pay 70% of the price and the question of whether they would ever pay off, because the tax administration gave them a clause that the tax on the transfer of absolute rights was paid and they had already registered as owners. What's the DS crime in? While the president of the municipality of Stara Pazova was Serbian Radical Srdja Komazec, from 2004 to 2008, the spatial plan of the Municipality of Stara Paz was completed, only left to vote in SO Stara Pazova. So, he's been through all the procedures. It was then the competent Ministry of Capital Investments and gave consent, it passed the term for public publication, for making remarks, etc. The only thing left to do is vote in the local congregation. Meanwhile, elections are coming, meanwhile there is a change of government in the municipality of Stara Paz. Currently, there are seven parties in the municipality of Stara Paz, one of which is the pillar of the DS coalition. They could not during the president of the Serbian Radicals municipality of Srda Komazec to translate the land from agricultural to construction. It's just that the man wouldn't let the law be broken and the peasants were wrong. Last 2007 the Municipal Committee of the DS of Stara Pazova, signed by Mr. Jovan Tishma, sent a letter to Belgrade's "Log Centre" firm. Be careful how the letter reads: "Subject" Novi Banovci, a drug-transport center. We are familiar with the fact that you are planning to build a goods-transport centre at a location along the E75 highway on your way out for Nova Banovci, which is why 300m euros were set aside, allowing 3,500 jobs to be opened. We also know that you have addressed individual ministries and analogue circuit bodies in order to help you carry out these jobs, and that you have received support from them. The blockade that exists in the municipality of Stara Pazova by the president of Mr. Srdja Komazec's municipality is not understandable to us, because the investment of the projected funds and the employment of a large number of workers is in the general interest of the municipality and its citizens. In these circumstances, we confirm that we, as the DS, which makes up the Government of the Republic of Serbia, support your commitment to investment in our municipality. We therefore undertake to create conditions for the implementation of the project and to enable all the permits necessary for the implementation of this project, which are on the scale with the positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia." The former president of Srdja Komazec told them nicely: you can get other parcels that are now, according to existing urban plans, building land, but you can't build anything there, because it's agricultural land and will remain agricultural according to a new spatial plan, whose production has been brought to an end. It is about the move of land located near the Danube River and the municipalities of Stara Pazova did not want to allow that agricultural land to be translated into construction land, because it was supposed to be a very attractive tourist zone near the Danube River. Otherwise, during the time of the municipality's president, Srdja Komazec, in the municipality of Stara Pazova, which was one of the most developed municipalities in Serbia at the time, but unfortunately it was not known because the municipality of Stara Paz and SRS were in a media blockade, there were 1,520 hectares of the country to build investment facilities, and in Krnjesevci 600 hectares, in Novi Paz 100 hectares, in Stara Paz 800 hectares. In addition to the Nestle ice cream factory, along the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway, Srdja Komazec municipality's president, along with his team, has equipped 120 plots to build investment facilities, of which 95 has been sold and most of it has been built. Thanks to Mr. Srdja Komazec's efforts, the municipality of Stara Pazova was one of the most successful and developed municipalities in the Republic of Serbia from 2004 to 2008. As the SRS exercised power in the municipality of Stara Pazova, we did not want to allow agricultural land to be translated into building land in that move, we did not want to allow peasants to cheat, agricultural land to be kidnapped at scandalously low prices and then translated into building land. What's the biggest mess and shame on you from the DS? That Log Center company actually has no intention of building anything here. They want to translate agricultural land into building land and when they do, to resell the land at seven or eight times the price. So they're tasked just to make extra profit on land resales. There won't be any factory openings or new jobs. While Srdja Komazec was the president of the municipality, this company "Log Center" failed to do so, although it was a very strong pressure from both the DS and the resolution ministries. Then what happens later? Here: "Republic of Serbia, SO Stara Pazova, 23 December 2008, call for a session of SO Stara Paz for 26 December 2008. Be careful how you hastily hurried to allow these criminals to cheat on the peasants: "48th item of the agenda - a review of the proposal for a decision to draw up a plan for the general regulation of the Banovac (Old Banovci, Novi Banovci and Banovci Danube), on the territory of the Katastrian municipality of Stari Banovci and the Katastrian municipality of Novi Banovci". Yesterday, DS, along with its coalition partners, voted in SO Stara Paz to adopt a plan of the Banovac general regulation, which is directly contrary to the spatial plan. According to the spatial plan, this land remains agricultural, cannot be translated into construction. You, by one plan act of lower legal force in relation to the spatial plan, translate this land from agricultural land into construction. You will allow criminals from this company to take the land from peasants, although they have not paid 70% of the price, they will make extra profit, because when the land is built, the price will be seven or eight times higher than it is now. Then you will drastically damage the municipality of Stara Paz and its citizens, and then from that story of yours that you are for Europe, for the rule of law, that you will tighten the belt, simply, there will be nothing. Here, that's what you DS gentlemen do, this is how you cheat hundreds of peasants in the Old Paz municipality, taking their money. The rest of the 70% of the price will never be paid to those peasants. I had an obligation, Mrs Dragutinovic, to introduce you to this fact. In the Serbian government, please raise the question that what was done yesterday at So Stara Paz's will be put out of effect. In the municipality of Stara Paz, there are quite enough building plots on which investment facilities can be built. This move of land, located directly near the Danube River, is preserved. It's supposed to be a tourist zone. Don't let a bunch of criminals, like this company, get extra profit on the torture and trouble of the peasants, to resell after that construction land. Because I repeat, there will be no factories, no new jobs. This company deals only with land reselling and cheating on peasants in the Municipality of Stara Pazova. Your obligation, Madam Minister, as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is to prevent this crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11544	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. You have three minutes and 30 seconds left under the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11545	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really want to warn not only the public, but also you to do everything in your power to prevent this crime. We, among other things, warned the public at the time in 2007, warned the ministry that there was a big fraud and a big robbery going on. Mr. Martinovic explained to you all the facts that tell you that in the act, the attempted robbery is not only of peasants, but also of the state. I know, I'm not going to name names here, but they were trying, because he was our president of the municipality, lobbying and asking the party to influence Srdjan Komazec to make this fraud possible. We strongly opposed it, insisted that no single moment would happen to anyone that in any way the municipalities, or Srdjan Komazec, would be involved in this and that this land would, in this way, be swindled by individuals, practically taken from peasants, to lose both municipalities and peasants, so that only a few people would earn money. Then I warned the parties that were in power, not to mention the names, and then we told them, if you let them, we'd be able to block the work of the Assembly, because this is an incredible attempted crime. You have to understand that this is something that is destroying our country. They buy from farmers for a three- or four-euro square metre, change in the purpose of land, only paperwork, and earn a few million euros. Why would you let that happen? Why would you let these criminals, these thieves, do that? Because one of them is gonna take a commission. Let's leave the entire party, both the SRS and the DS, let's leave the parties at all, why, in this way, allow thieves to take this kind of money and not respond to anyone, and make it practically legal, because they've got someone in the community, someone in the ministry, and they end up doing this dirty thing. Don't let that happen. You have facts. You have the information. Check it out. Check, if that's true, stop. What's stopping you from preventing crime? Let them learn once in a row that they can't take commissions to the harm of the citizens and to the harm of the state. You have a chance. You can't say we didn't warn you. A year and a few days, this problem is related to Old Paz, and we warned you. Now you have information, I'll personally call the minister, so he doesn't get into this. If, by chance, the municipality makes a decision like this, this decision will be annulled. But, first of all, insist on your on your municipal board, because these are DS representatives. I'm sure you don't want them to muddle up both your party and you here. You'll be responsible for that. Now you can't say we didn't know, brought them to the bar. We warned you... (President: Time at the disposal of the parliamentary group is up. I'm sorry, but I think this is serious. It's a year and a half since we warned you this would happen and here it is confirmed. I don't know what more you want than evidence. The only thing left is for you to look at those facts now, if this is true, to stop and get it over with. You'll get a political point. Thank you and forgive the overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11546	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11547	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is also, as the one referred to in Article 1, related to the amendment to Article 6. The main objective of this amendment is to reduce the budget deficit. Yesterday, I was talking about the projected rate of growth of the social product of 3.5% being unrealistic. If it is not achieved, and unfortunately all indicators speak for it, then we will not have the opportunity to fill the budget in the same way as planned. Budget revenues will drop dramatically due to the unilateral application of the trade agreement with the EU and that, according to Mr Djelic, about 300m euros. This all goes hand in hand with the budget deficit not being 1.5%, as promised by the IMF and for whom the IMF was able to say it is ready to add an additional $520m to Serbia's budget. I think this budget deficit is going to be much bigger anyway. I believe that rather than increasing the deficit compared to 2008 by 4.2 billion dinars, the government was better off resorting to public savings measures, i.e. a reduction in public spending. Given the fact that the government is not at this point ready to tighten the belt, which should primarily start from the state administration, and later on from a more cautious forecast of budget inflows, which are in this situation when the crisis is definitely more appropriate, we have reason to suspect that the government will resort to inflation as a means of inflation taxation of citizens to fill the budget gaps itself. Therefore, an 8% inflation projection will unfortunately remain only one inaccessible promise from the government. I think it would be much more logical and it would have been good if the government had shown that public spending could be reduced by starting from it itself and thus could have reduced such a huge budget deficit. I think it was supposed to start from the state administration, but not at the moment, when it was extremely unpopular to make cuts in the state administration, it was supposed to be done the moment the government was formed. It wasn't in the past so long ago that simply people who deal with economy and finance couldn't predict what direction all this was going to happen. That's why I find it unwarranted that our state administration is this big. By the bulk of the government we are definitely Balkan recorders, and by the participation of public consumption in the gross social product of 44% we are convincingly the first in the region. If our gross social product amounted to 33 billion euros in September, that means that government officials and budget users spent 15 billion euros this year. If indeed the government's goal in 2008 was to reduce public spending by 1.5%, then the question is why they didn't do it. Serious economic experts say the state apparatus is so large that it can save around 150m euros annually. On several occasions, Mr Djelic himself spoke of only paying employees in the state administration to stand out about 10% of GDP and that this is compared to other countries, for example working with Bulgaria, three times more than in the country. True, a small part of the budget deficit could be reduced and if the costs of cabinets of four deputy prime ministers were reduced, the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dacic, increased four times, the costs for the functioning of Mr Dinkic's cabinets were increased twice, funds for the functioning of Mr Krkobibic's cabinets were increased only five times. Of course, this funding would certainly not have contributed to the quality of Mr Krkobibic's work, and I am glad that Minister of Finance Mrs Dragutinovic realized that it is necessary for him to be reduced and thanked at this time for accepting my amendment to Article 5, which stipulates that Mr Krkobibic's funds are reduced for increasing subsidies to private enterprises, or exporters, in order to win foreign markets. Of course, I think there was room in this budget to react in one way or another in other places. I would no longer like to talk about the amendment, this opportunity would return to the time my colleague, Mr Nikolic, spent explaining his amendment. I think the arguments I have made are in favour of reducing the budget deficit, but I must finally say that the DSS MPs have in mind that the deadlines for the budget debate are minimal, but not reduced by our guilt, but because the government has been late with this draft budget in the assembly procedure for more than 40 days. Even though the government has not shown enough seriousness on this issue, it does not prevent DSS MPs from showing that we are solely and primarily interested in citizens and that we will behave accordingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11548	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11549	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the budget, I would refer to this amendment as much as I think opposition parties, especially the SRS, indicate that this budget is wasteful and that it is a budget that no one controls. For years, the budget of the Republic of Serbia has not been controlled because there is no final account. As the republican budget is being filled, and as Serbian citizens are being robbed and workers who have been building and creating people's goods for decades are being robbed, on one occasion I want to get to know you that Serbia and its assets are being robbed by profiteers and thieves. By authorised representatives of the HIP Union, Azotara Panchevo was filed on 17.12.2008 with the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office for criminal charges against Vesna Djindjic of Belgrade, director of the Privatisation Agency of the Republic of Serbia, on the grounds that during 2007, she adopted and signed an illegal act in breach of the Privatisation Act, so that as a person she was authorised to represent and answer for the legality of the work of the Privatisation Agency, Article 15.5. Law on the Privatisation Agency and Article 21(5) The Statute of the Privatisation Agency. It has violated its legal powers in the control process and fulfils the obligations under the contract on the purchase of social capital of HIP Azotar. More specifically, it has been appointed that the Privatisation Agency does not first respect the principle of equality of the international tender when privatising Pančeva Azotara for compulsory investment under the HiIP Azotare Social Capital Buying Contract, which was an investment in the existing Azotara Karbamid II plant, worth several dozen million euros. Several months after the conclusion of the contract on the purchase of social capital of HIP Azotara concluded an annex of the same contract, which was regulated to stop the aforementioned drive from being a mandatory investment, although it was a mandatory investment at the time of the privatisation tender. It has affected that many renowned international fertilizer producers, who made serious offers in the privatisation process, made them less acceptable to the current consortium of the owners of Azotara to win the tender for the purchase of social capital of the mentioned factory. If the Karbamid plant were to be driven, it would have been a new factory that was only to be started in production, but at the time of the tender did not represent a mandatory investment, it would have been likely that the offers for the purchase of the Azotara would have been different, or more from the other participants in the tender. Therefore, the conclusion of the contract on the purchase of social capital of HIP Azotare Panchevo above constitutes a harsh violation of the principle of equality in the market economy. This is what the SRS has been pointing out for years about how tenders are being held for the sale of state and social assets. The second to be put on this criminal report to Ms. Vesni Djindjic, as the responsible person at the Privatisation Agency, is that she approved the illegal sale of the Karbamid II production plant. This is the key issue and the biggest robbery in Serbia, which is specifically seen and for which there is irrefutable evidence. From the HiP Azotare Panchevo factory, which was carried out by the consortium of the privatization owners of HIP-azotara Panchevo at a price of 32mm and 500 000 euros, but was reduced because the book value of Karbamid II is 45m euros. These have managed to get the HIP Azotara into the circle through privatisation, to demonstrate a new factory, which was built out of prochrom and rostfraj and whose plants of state-of-the-art technology were to be involved in the process of production, resulting in the same persons as the one who gained enormous material benefit. Since the consortium of the owner of the HIP Azotare Panchevo was not allowed to comply with the privatisation contract to alienate more than 5% of the value of the total asset of the Azotara, nor did it receive such consent from the Agency, and with this sale, it has alienated more than 10% of the total value of the HIP Azotara, and that the representative trade unions of the Azotara notified the Agency of this act, it was obliged to establish a breach of the privatisation contract, to order the unwitting customers to return to the previous situation before the sale of the illegal sale, in accordance with the privatisation contract of penalties to the purchaser of a 25 % purchase price, and that, if within the time limit set, the Azotara Customers's consortium does not fulfil, the contract for the purchase of social capital of the AIP. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, respected HiP workers Azotara Panchevo, the Agency did not act in accordance with its powers, but, although it subsequently found that the Karbamid 2 plant was illegally sold, it passed an act allowing the Azotara Customers' consortium not to bear any consequences on the basis of the illicit sale of Karbamid 2. Thus, Vesna Djindjic, as director and signator of this latter act, caused damage to the property of Azotara, damaged the Republic of Serbia, its budget, minimally for amounts of more than 25%, could have been said to be more than 10m euros, and violated the legitimacy of the international tender for the privatisation of Azotara, as the Karbamid 2 plant represented the mandatory investment of a future buyer at the time of the privatisation of Azotara. In this connection, by submitting this criminal report, it is proposed that the First Municipal Public Prosecutor, now state-owned, that the prosecution carry out an insight into the relevant acts of the Privatisation Agency and the HIP Azotara DOO Panchevo, to listen to representatives of the Azotara representative trade unions and obtain other available evidence on this issue. The SRS shall require and require the public prosecutor to, without delay, since it has unwarranted evidence, have written evidence, the crown evidence in this procedure, to initiate criminal proceedings, to open an investigation and to establish the responsibility of those persons who, under the law, are responsible for the breach of this agreement, or contract, but who have committed certain criminal offences. I hope that after this scandalous act and this act, which has primarily been done to the workers of HIP Azotara of 45m euros, finally the rule of law to function and that citizens, and especially about 1,500 workers who have lost their bread, will have the opportunity to compensate for them, that the state will recover everything that the irresponsible persons have done in the past. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I expect and the SRS is looking for the most energetic that these things must already be put into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11550	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Time is available to the parliamentary group for five minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11551	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Madam Minister, all objections to the SRS, or MPs, regarding this budget, are fully justified, which we are trying on obvious examples to show and prove to you. I can say that I don't believe it's your wish, because you've got a list of wishes from every ministry, so you've tried, as far as possible in a government like this, to coordinate some things, but that's at the expense of the citizens of Serbia, it shows at every turn. Among other things, I'm going to show you here on an obvious case, it's written by the newspaper, and it's the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society. It has been announced that in the ministry of 82 employees of 42 members of the ministry received practically 13 salaries, two million dinars were paid, allegedly because they worked in some projects. The press tried to get information on how from 82 to 42 they were in these project groups, and 40 didn't. It was probably the minister's determination, which are criteria I don't want to go into, but it's important that they asked for a list of these ministry workers, however, they didn't get it. We managed to get this list. Just to tell you which of those who work at the Ministry received this 13th salary: Nebojsa Vasiljevic, Assistant Minister, Snezana Obrenović-Ivanović, also Assistant Minister, Jelena Surculija, Assistant Minister, Slobodan Laketa, Assistant Minister, Dragomir Vasiljevic, Chief, Vladimir Homan, State Secretary, Slobodan Marković, Special Advisor of the Ministry. You think this is how we're going to go to savings in such a difficult situation. What is particularly interesting, the Ministry of Telecommunications says they are familiar with the austerity measures reportedly taken by the government and are taking care of it. What is particularly interesting is that they are the 23rd ministry at the level of the budget. Watch out, now, MPs, this fact. They say -- we're familiar with the savings recommendations and we stick to them, and you have the best illustration of that in the fact that our ministry will return about 250 million dinars from this year's budget to next year's budget. You take care of this information. They say they've got 250 million left if they haven't spent it. What does this information say? Either that they are thrifty, or that the budget is not well-designed for 2008, that the rebalancing is also not well done. As possible, if they received funds based on the projects and tasks they were supposed to carry out, then we can conclude they didn't do the job they were supposed to do, or they're lying, which is worse, and I think that's it. Instead of at least keeping quiet about it, they point it out as their advantage. Now we come to what is extremely important. Why is there an obstruction by the government, and they're telling you not to adopt the budget, to go through like this? Why are we discussing this today and not a month ago? Probably almost all the ministries in this situation, what do they need a budget for? They have left the money from the previous budget, i.e. on the basis of the previous quarter, will have the right to spend, will not be able to account for anyone and finish the job. That's the problem, not the opposition. You're a problem, an incompetent government, a ministry that doesn't care about anything, but only how they get more and how they spend it, but not on the benefit of the citizens, but on the ones you hired. The state administration, you've had the opportunity to hear that data, the percentage of one of the most numerous not only in the environment, but the minority in Europe, compared to Poland, Finland, I can't count all the countries now, the Czech Republic, that's amazing. Since 2001, you have four times increased the number of workers in the state administration. You think with this kind of savings you'll be able to wait for this wave to hit us (President: Time). ) but from the heat of March that the question is how will the citizens survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11552	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. The Committee on Finance has not adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11553	In this amendment, as well as yesterday in Article 1, I suggested that the overall budget deficit, which is about 49 billion, be reduced by some 627 million dinars, be reduced. It is essentially and logically linked to the amendment to Article 5, in which I have reduced certain budget users' appropriations in the budget and thus made a savings of 627 million dinars. All the discussions that took place during yesterday and today pointed out that the budget deficit proposed for next year is too high and that it is increasing by five billion this year, which we consider to be extremely unsustainable, especially because it is very certain that the revenues of the budget next year will not be as much as they can cover those expenditures that are at the level of this year, let alone increased by 50 billion or 60 billion, as they are actually foreseen in the 2009 budget. However, as the end of the year approaches, a growing number of government officials are daily making certain statements that can at least be characterised as very irresponsible. This began at the time of the pre-election campaign for the president of Serbia, when Mr Tadic promised both Serbia and Kosovo, and higher salaries and pensions, and new jobs. Today we are witnessing that there is little truth, apparently, or that there is almost nothing. Krkobic's pensions were promised 70% of the salary. Pensioners know very well how much their pensions have been increased and that none of this will be in the course of 2009. Dinkic's promises of free action, 200,000 new jobs, the arrival of the Fiat are of course one lie and paralyze. The crisis will not hit us, but will strengthen us -- Mladjan Dinkic also said, which is also a harsh public deception. Djelic's white Schengen by the end of the year, defrosting the implementation of the SAA, is another one in a series of major frauds by Serbian citizens. Two months ago, Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic signed a collective agreement, namely Anex collective agreement with trade unions. Since the implementation of the collective agreement, there will obviously be nothing, so all employees will be deceived not only in the state services, but also in all other entities. Mr. Milosavljevic declared that there was no purchase of white technique to make prices fall. In these irresponsible statements, or in statements that deceived or deceived Serbian citizens, the prime minister himself, who is by nature a very measured man, was involved, so two and a half months ago, he said, the problem of space for the State Auditing Institution was solved, and he will be able to do his job properly. Of that, here's December 27th, there's nothing. On December 1st, a contest for the admission of auditors to the State Auditing Institution ended, they are due to enter office on January 1st -- where will they move to? Are they gonna do that job on the street or are they gonna come in front of the government and maybe ask - what about our space? Will the media convey a picture of Serbia having an institution that controls state money or public finances and that the state institution has nowhere to work? That's not a good recommendation, Mrs. Dragutinovic. You're not responsible for this, I know that, but it's a simple fact. As the end of the year approaches, these statements are increasingly irresponsible and irresponsible. Djelic said yesterday that it is minus 25 billion and that by the end of the year the minus will be resolved. I'm very interested to know that for these four or three days, how long until the end of this year, 25 billion will be put into the budget and all budget users or those who have done some work for the state will be paid off. Mrkonjic also promised to the tolls - 30 billion dinars as much as we owe you, we'll pay you. From where? Make it 20 billion. And as those 20 came up, Mrs Dragutinovic -- by talking to the government's negotiating team yesterday, who, of course, have an interest claim of 33 billion plus interest and said -- give up a third of what you've been working for the state, we'll pay you the rest, give up a third and interest, we'll pay you the rest. It's just being done in mob groups. Only mobsters do that when you do something for them. They say we'll pay, but half give up, and we'll pay you. Oh, man, you guys are gonna kill all those companies like that. Indirectly or directly, 50,000 were employed in Serbia's travel economy. If you don't pay them, they'll have to fire people. Today they are preparing to fire 5,000 people who worked in the travel industry because the state will not be able to pay them or refuse to pay them back, although Mrkonjic has promised to do so, those debts that are older and more than two years old. Now we get to the newest pearl. This morning he is a minister or yesterday, but it was transferred this morning to Minister Dragin, who has not had any pearls until now, but is the largest pearl - the Ministry of Agriculture will not subsidise tobacco production, as tobacco is harmful to health and causes addiction diseases, of which thousands of people die annually in Serbia. I really didn't hear, let me use one hard word, a stupider statement. Does this mean that cigarettes will not be produced in Serbia in the coming years if tobacco subsidies do not occur? Oh, man, they're not gonna subsidize the farmers who make tobacco. If he doesn't subsidize our farmers, then Japan Tabaco, Bat, Philip Morris, will import that tobacco. And what we're going to have -- an even bigger deficit in the balance of payments, and our farmers are not going to have stimulation, they're not going to work, they're going to ruin people. The production of cigarettes will remain the same and these cigarettes will again cause human addiction diseases. It does not affect the reduction of the disease and the reduction of smoking. If you want to reduce the production of cigarettes, then go to Philip Morris or Bat and tell them -- you can't produce so many tons, you'll produce less. Either you increase your excise duty, so it won't be able to buy every cigarette or you'll have an educational effect on, first of all, the young population not to smoke. You won't do it by subsidising farmers to produce. I guess it's in our best interest to produce as much as possible, if we're already processing it. Now, in the end, you're asking us to adopt this budget on a blank. You delivered it late. We only have three days until the end of the year, the teat is, you are aware that there are so many items in that budget that are undefined and that are very lax, and you are asking the opposition - come on, be responsible, no matter how responsible we were to deliver it in time, that we haven't drawn up a good budget, which is too wasteful, yet you give up the amendment and let's vote that budget - so what happens? This is what you are asking of us, although it is obvious that there are at least 70 billion dinars in this budget that have not been clearly defined and we have talked about it in the previous days, colleagues from the DSS and I personally yesterday. Who will control Dinkic for those 550 million dinars of services per contract and travel costs, if there are no premises for the State Auditing Institution? Do you want to control or do you want to control the Prime Minister? You don't have that weight, that capacity, I'm sorry, but it really is. You won't be able to do that. This must be done by the institution that is legally responsible, and the Government directly or indirectly, I would now say directly - obstructs the work of the institution because it is not responsible for controlling the spending of the people's money, not responding. A drastic example -- the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development last year placed loans for start-up companies. Applications were submitted through regional agencies or offices for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, officially, and it went off the record via G17 plus. For example, in Nis, hundreds of applications were submitted through the agency, 50 of which were positively resolved, and the total number of loans granted to the territory was over 150. Where did 100 new ones come from? Over G 17. It's a public secret, if you want to get a loan for start-up or from the Development Fund, you have to be close to the G17, if you want to get that loan, you have to go through them. It's a public secret that more than 100 people through the party applied directly to the Ministry and almost everyone got loans. Did they have any obligations to the party and which, I don't know, but it's very symptomatic. That's not how a state budget is adopted. We don't have the right to trust you blanco that the money, which citizens separate from taxes, will be spent in a responsible way, because previous history and this example of this, will deny us and don't allow us to act that way. If there is nothing else we can do, at least we can at least tell the citizens of Serbia who are watching TV to tell what is wrong with this budget and how state money should be controlled. Do something about it, accept my amendment that says you need to cut the deficit by 627 million dinars, so you don't have to reduce the deficit, but at least transfer for subsidies to agriculture. It's one of the positive steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11554	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. The time available to the DSS parliamentary group is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11555	Dear colleagues, I'd like to relate to my colleague Lapčević. He mentioned a very important thing — a very important business branch in our country — that is, agriculture. With this draft budget and the announcement of Agriculture Minister Mr Dragin, subsidies for tobacco producers are lifted. This is a disastrous decision that will affect a large number of people who have invested their resources in recent years and have closed in this chain from production to the finalisation of that product, i.e. established with cigarette manufacturers such a relationship that this agricultural production is worth it. Listen carefully, don't look at the ceiling or the left or the right. You're jeopardizing a very important segment in the area of agriculture. That way, and on the basis of this announcement and the intention of the Minister of Agriculture Dragin, there's a space opening up for you to know who? Import lobby. Import lobbys will be imported by tobacco, our agricultural producers, those who grow tobacco, will have to because of the lack of subsidies to shut down production, but someone will make a very good profit on the import of these raw materials, i.e. tobacco. I want to make a commitment, since I'm talking about agriculture, to point out one very important thing, which is that the proposal for this budget provides for animal protection funds that amounted to about a billion and a sixth in the last budget, are now cut into 816 million dinars, 50% less. According to data we have from regional veterinary chambers, or the Republic veterinary chamber, the debt of the state this year, which is still unpaid, is somewhere at 700 million. In fact, the means for this activity, for the prevention of animal health, will not exist and will be transferred to the burden of peasants. Our stock fund isn't in great shape. This is what we're going to decimate the production. This is a direct blow. This was a very important indirect subsidy, that through the state they could still vaccinate both pigs and cattle, it was a very important subsidy by the state. Now it's transferred to the burden of peasants. You know the consequences of that? Catastrophy by livestock, even dairy, and for your processing facilities. Do you know who the space opens again? Once again, the space of the import lobby opens up, so we'll eat beef, I don't know what quality, eat from Argentina, maybe eat pork from Brazil. Imagine yourself a little bit and dent into this budget. Don't wait for him to come, as Parliament Speaker says, Monday when we vote on this budget. There are a lot of negative things in this budget. There are people here and in the DS from the waist. Mr. Milivojevic is from the profession. Let him go out and defend this item, let him say that these funds are enough. I'm sure he can't do that, and I'm sure he's willing to support this story, but you have that power and the ability to influence, within your party, to improve the position of those who are really threatened, and these are agricultural producers. Let's put together some effort. If we could do it together, we'd unload that poor peasant, if he still had that kind of subsidy he had last year. If we put more pressure on him in a situation like this, I really don't know where this budget is going. He breaks over the back of a pensioner, over the back of a laborer and over the back of a peasant. It's not interstate solidarity, it's not right. It's not right for those who were the most endangered to bear the greatest burden possible. With this proposal and the Agrarian budget, which is never lower than 2000 and which excludes tobacco subsidies and animal health subsidies, we simply influence and as if someone intends to shut down primary agricultural production in this country and thus open a space for the import lobby. With this proposal of the Agricultural Budget, namely this budget, you are directly destroying agricultural production in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11556	The word has a folk letter from Lidija Vukicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11557	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected citizens, listening to their colleague, Nikolic talked about taking part of an animal-separated budget and transferring, I'm not sure what, because I've been doing something, so I haven't heard, mostly, the point of the story is that we're not going to get rid of it this time – if someone is more specific about this matter, please, feel free, Mrs. G17, I've fenced myself – but the bottom line is that we're not going to solve the issue of animals in Serbia either this time or this budget. I think it's inadmissible, and I think it's that thief that's going on in all kinds of our so-called. institutions fighting for animal care must really get in the way. Gandhi said that the civilization's relationship and the degree of civilization of a nation is being viewed in its relation to animals. Are you aware that in every city in Serbia you have a million, I don't know what number, puppies, cats, who wander aimlessly, and one year Mrs. Hrustanovic, I can't remember exactly how many years ago, 5-6 years ago, solved this problem of strays in the way that the team that collects animals, leads us to asylums, and next time I'll bring you pictures to see how they treat these animals. Animals kill themselves, they throw themselves into a limestone, and that's how we clear our streets from so-called streets. A stray dog. Often in the papers, you can find headlines that a pack of wild dogs attacked people, ripped apart, I don't know what he did, and we're just saying that, so like that, we really need to pick them up off the street and destroy them, they need to be locked up somewhere. We haven't met the basic conditions for these animals. We do not have enough asylum in Serbia. If there were no wonderful, human people detached from their wallets, and those of us who are privately helping to create animal asylum, Serbia probably wouldn't have any dogs, no swords on the street. I think it's a shame and I think it's really all those foundations we've been getting, and we've been getting huge foundations, say the Brigitte Bardo Foundation, so the Royal British Foundation, so there's a lot of, a lot of money going through this country. Where did the money go, we could ask Elvir Burazerovic, where did the money that was meant to sterilize the animals go? You don't know that. They just disappeared somewhere. Since Mrs. Brigitte Bardo realized that this was a land of thieving, that in this country it was stolen and that all the money she sent was not sent where it was supposed to and was not solved by the stray dogs in particular and cats, then she sent to all the countries, including Serbia, a busload of veterinarians who sterilized animals. So there's one of those bitches in my house that's etched in her BB ear with that and that number. So someone's trying to help us, someone's giving us funds, and we're simply killing in the sheep, or I don't know where the puppies and kittens are, and we want to go to Europe. Dear gentlemen, if we want to go to Europe, since I lived in Europe, every dog can enter a cafe in Europe, every dog can enter a restaurant, every dog can enter any means of transport in Europe. Since we're in Europe so much, please spare the money to finally solve the question of stray dogs, cats and all those unsettled living creatures who have souls, who don't know what they're going to do with hunger, cold and nobody taking care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11558	National MP Miroslav Marinkovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11559	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, for more accurate information on my predecessor's presentation, the Ministry of Agriculture carried out the vaccination and marking of 560.00 dogs in the previous year, and each dog has, in addition to that identification, a passport that can travel abroad, unlike those of us who still don't have that passport. As far as animal asylum is concerned, as a man who's been doing the work of the Director of the Veterinary Authority, I can very competently tell you, and you can also get the information from the Ministry of Agriculture. As far as the agriculture ministry's budget is concerned, it is certainly small, but in a conversation with the Ministry and the Minister of Agriculture, we have been assured that some redistributions of funds will bring the necessary resources to carry out these actions. Certainly, it is very important that the programme measures health care, and thus the control of healthy animals for the examination of certain infections and in case of occurrence, there is this programme and it will be implemented not to the harm of the owner, but as so far in the system of financing, i.e. subsidisation of the state, normally by the means available. If we know that we did one job in the previous year, this year will take less money and what is foreseen is certainly not enough, but we are in such a situation that we can't be too apart. There are as many as there are, but redistributions in the ministry, according to the Minister of Agriculture's assurance, will be made to redistribute the funds and thus ensure the peaceful life and safety and health of people and animals.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11560	Anyone else want a word? At a meeting of the Committee on Finance, proposing representative Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister withdrew the amendment to Article 3 submitted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The Committee on Finance has also submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Smiljana Milisavljevic and Dragisa Djokovic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Smiljana Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11561	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Dragisa Djokovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia. The essence of the amendment is in the following - water supply problem in the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan, Zubin Potok has existed in the last 10 years. We believe it is necessary to provide guarantees to the municipalities mentioned that they could be in debt with business banks, and in line with the annual budget revenues, because it is unacceptable for the citizens of KIM to have no water in the 21st century at 12 hours a day. You'll agree with me, that's a basic, elemental existential condition. However, as the Financial Committee has given its amendment to Article 3, where, among other things, the idea of our amendment, which concerns water supply, is accepted, for these reasons, we withdraw the amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I would like to thank the finance minister and the Finance Committee, who have been adept, but we demand that the project be introduced into a regular procedure, that everything be transparent and public and that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of KIM have insight into the spending flows and that they inform the KIM on a timely basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11562	I find that the amendment has been withdrawn from the procedure and thus ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SNS, the Progressive Serbian-Tomislav Nikolic group, submitted several amendments concerning guarantees of further borrowing and reprogramme obligations. Of course we are not against road infrastructure, against investment in electricity, investment in railways, investments in local self-government touched by these members of the budget, but I think it is extremely important to point to an economic policy, a practice that has been implemented since 2000 by the Dossov governments. It is an inappropriate borrowing of citizens and the economy of Serbia, so today we have come to the situation that debts, which are private, which are public, amounting to over 20 billion euros. In addition, we have privatised, as you said, over 2,000 companies, a major foreign exchange inflow has come together in these few years and by privatisation, and most Serbian citizens unfortunately have the impression of imperceptibility, uncertainty today. Most citizens today live in poverty, in poverty, and this is the best indicator that we have led a very bad policy in the previous period, that this transition period that was meant to strengthen the private sector, to get one more efficient and efficient economy, to have a significantly higher productivity, to have much more serious economic growth, that this period was not exploited and that we urgently need to change the economic policy that is being implemented in Serbia. I would like to say that, unfortunately, Serbia today has been put in a position to fully depend on new loans, on new loans, to depend entirely on foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange inflows. Without that foreign exchange inflow, without these loans, there would be no perspective, no possibility of this budget being realised. In the following year, we can't count on foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign investment due to the global financial crisis, of course, not in this volume that we had in the previous period, we won't be able to count on revenues from privatisation and the only possibility is credit. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I have to say how important the loans are, how much we've come into a one-out situation, that we can't survive without a loan. Credits, first of all, serve this government to fill out foreign exchange reserves. Without foreign reserves, there is no intervention on the foreign market, when inflation is concerned with inflation. Without foreign reserves, there is no intervention in the financial sector, there is no way to control the course. All economic wisdom, all economic policy has come down to the preservation of the exchange rate, to disable itself, and through the credit borrowing of our citizens, so that they come into a situation that with one unreal course they cannot pay the big interest most often related to the course of the euro, possibly the Swiss franc. Foreign reserves are of paramount importance to the government today. It is the only chance to preserve and what kind of economic growth, the only chance to cover the balance of payments deficit, the balance of payments deficit that is growing from year to year, which is likely to exceed 20% of the gross social product, a balance of payments deficit that will not be covered by either exports, because, unfortunately, this year we can expect only even smaller exports, a default of payments that will not be covered either by the foreign sign, because their exports will also be problematic, and as I said neither will be covered by the privatisation income. Therefore, the only way to finance imports today is by increasing foreign reserves. Imports are needed today to ensure, unfortunately, and economic growth without imports, without the services that are accompanied by imports, which are primarily the financial sector, primarily trade and all the activities that are accompanied by the import economy, we will not be able to provide revenue in the budget that you have designed anything more modest, but still too high for our economy's capabilities. It is necessary to urgently break up with this policy of further borrowing Serbia's citizens. It is necessary to break with an economic policy that primarily implies relying on loans and imports. With this economic policy, we are moving towards the collapse of the Serbian economy, towards a small growth in industrial production. We're going to have industrial production today, which is approximately at the level of that industrial production that was at the time of the sanctions. There's no better situation when it comes to agriculture. On the contrary, I have the impression that the situation is even worse there and it is really inappropriate for us to go through this kind of economic policy and further loss of jobs in Serbia. You are officially in favour of helping with the preservation of jobs, but when it comes to preserving jobs with such an economic policy that you are leading and that you continue to lead in 2009. One year, unfortunately, we won't be in a position to preserve jobs, and the decline of citizens' standards is inevitable. Serbia's Progressive Party, the Progressive Group Forwards Serbia Tomislav Nikolic, Tomislav Nikolic considers it urgent to break up with such an economic policy, that it is unrelenting that we today spend what belongs to our children and that we live from someone else's accumulation, not from our accumulation, and that we must urgently advocate that the export part of the economy overruns the import part of the economy, that it goes to savings, not to borrowings, that as much as possible is allocated to investment, not to spending, and that everything in all, the competitiveness of our economy is increased. That is why we have submitted these amendments, in order to let the citizens know, that with this kind of economic policy, there is no perspective and no future for us and our children, and that it must change urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11564	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Milentievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11565	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, where I have sought the guarantee of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to business banks that for the water supply project three municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija, these are municipalities of northern Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan and Zubin Potok. In my explanation, I'll be very brief. For years, these three municipalities have been waterless. I don't think there's any need for any particular comment or reason. In the same text, the amendment to this article was submitted by MPs living in Kosovo and Metohija from the Democratic Party, me from the Democratic Party of Serbia and Mr Kragovic from the Serbian Radical Party. The Committee on Finance also submitted the amendment to this article. Since the texts are identical, with little technical differences and technical nature, the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted the amendment of the Finance Committee, and has very much addressed the problem of water supplying the north of Kosovo. I'll take a short chance to say it's not the end. The comprehensive water supply project of the three municipalities is worth 14m, 871 thousand euros. Since the Ministry of Finance's Public Debt Administration has received notice that these three municipalities can be in debt of 8,500,000 euros, the government adopted the amendment guarantee. It would be good for the finance minister to consider this remainder for a period of time and about the project must be completed. In favour of all this, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I thank the Government for accepting this amendment and withdrawing my amendment to Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11566	National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr Kragovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment that regulates the matter of water supplying Kosovo Mitrovica-North, Zvecan and Zubi's stream. I have submitted this amendment for the reason that citizens from Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan and Zubi's Strait for nine years do not have water from 19.00 to 07.00 hours. Restrictions are common, so some parts of the population do not have water for two or three hours a day, and in larger buildings in Kosovo Mitrovica, the situation arises that they do not have water for 24 hours. To be realized by the Chairman, please, Mr. Zivanovic, sit down. ) It is necessary, since the project and contractor are known, to provide these funds, because they are extremely favourable, with a grace period of two years and the responsibility of the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan and Zubin Potok, and it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to issue guarantees for this project. Since the Finance Committee, in the same text, submitted an amendment, was accepted by the Finance Committee. The only difference is that they were counting 85 dinars in the euro course, and in my amendment it is 87. I have no objections. I can only thank the Finance Committee. I believe this decision is binding on the government of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, why am I stressing this? I stress for the simple reason that the government's conclusions already exist. 05 of 30.08.2007 and 07.09.2007 that this project is being implemented. However, we have not come to understand, so we believe that this amendment of the Finance Committee will become the order of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly that finally this water supply project for the three municipalities of northern Kosovo will be realised, so that citizens, and these are around 40,000, plus students living downstairs, mean surely over 50,000 citizens, can use drinking water as the whole normal world uses. There is also a great fear, given that there is constant pressure, and you know that the water line that Mitrovica has built has remained on the south side and that there is constant pressure from Shipara, which require that the water on the north side is charged and that they collect that income, about 150,000 euros a month, and that would be one million and 800 thousand euros per year. A slightly larger figure to be owed to the Kosovo Mitrovica municipality means that, the price we would pay in a year we are already covering through this loan and through this investment, so we will have water to supply. I hope that this project can begin immediately, as soon as tomorrow, because all project documentation has been built and the contractor is well known, except that the competent ministry needs to control, approve and issue a warrant for the implementation of this project. On the other hand, I'd like to take the opportunity to point out what was going on at the KIM Ministry. I have submitted the amendment here because the KIM Ministry's budget has been drastically reduced. When I say so, I think it's reduced by more than one-third, which is unacceptable, given the situation in which Serbs live in KIM space. I would read you a part of the text and an explanation of why it was done and you will see that the government, what it did not do, does not punish itself, but punishes the Serb people at KIM. He says: "Because of the need to make fairer distributions of funds directed from the level of the Republic of Serbia to the population of KIM, the government has reached its conclusion 05 No. 120-335 of 15 March 2007, in charge of the Co-ordination Centre of Serbia for KIM, the legal follower is the Ministry of KIM, that, in co-operation with the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance within 60 days of the date of establishment and update of the data of users of the rights in the area of AP KIM, prepares information for the Government on the exercise of the rights of employees and other persons in the area of AP KiM, which would cover all the givings, i.e. all rights which are provided from the republican level to the population of KIM. The aim of the information is to reduce, above all, the income gaps that have existed for a long time, which have led, on the one hand, to pay an annual income tax for individual employees, and on the other hand, individuals receive or do not receive a fee of 11.084 dinars. As the 2009 draft budget did not occur, the implementation of the government's said conclusion in a comprehensive manner was estimated, starting from the budget's balance sheet options, the pay-out funds, i.e. for the employees of AP KiM's territory in 2009 were balanced in the following way: the salary with an increase of 100% was reduced by a percentage of the increase of up to 50%; the salary with an increase of 20% decreased the percentage of the increase to 12.5%; the salary with an increase of 20% was reduced to 10%. So, from this you can understand, the government has given itself some task, the task has not been realized, and then it does not punish itself or its officers who should have realised this plan, but is punishing the Serb people in KIM, by linearly abolishing all the supplements they have received so far. I'm not saying we shouldn't reconsider this Kosovo supplement, but it's a small number, a few hundred people who abuse it. But what's going on here? In fact, the government is going to investigate and question who is using funds, which are people who receive two, three, four, five or six salaries on KIM? Then they come to the conclusion that they are only members of the ruling majority. Then it stops, it can't be published because their personnel are the ones who abuse it. Then, on that basis, it costs the entire set of these people. I would understand this sanction, too, to cut these funds, but not by reducing both two billion and something left for other matters in the Republic of Serbia's budget. These same funds, if we reduced them, could be used by giving everyone on the desk a minimum of 11.084 dinars. So, because of the inability to hire, because of the inability to work, we might be able to help this people living in the area of KIM. At the moment, however, the government is hearing no ear for the Serb people in KIM, but is punishing him so drastically. It simply removes more than one third of the budgets that were planned in 2008 compared to 2009, and on the other hand, when we look at the budget, we see that many of the funds have been increased by 10, 20, let them by 100, let them by 300%; and the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister and 400%. So there's an increase of 400%, which is not nice from the government of the Republic of Serbia. No one can convince the people of KIM that most of the money is necessary to pay for the cabinet of four vice presidents, but to help the Serb people in KIM, in order to withstand all this pressure that currently exists through this alleged, mysterious mission of the Eulex that comes to KIM. Speaking of this mission, I would take the opportunity to ask one question, not to return, to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, what was the statement by the ministry of justice, it is the Ministry of Justice, with agreement with representatives of the North KiM judicial authorities, will make a full contribution to the efforts of the head of Unmik, Lambert Zanier and his associates to start functioning in northern Kosovo one or more Unmik courts in order to establish the rule of law, law enforcement and respect for human rights. In order to achieve the said goal, representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the judicial authorities of the northern part of KIM continued with Unmika technical talks concerning the start of Unmik's work. "It is agreed that on 3 October 2008, in the northern part of Mitrovica, one or more courts will start working, in which international judges, prosecutors and administrative staff will work in the first 60 days. They will handle emergency criminal cases, as well as cases from the jurisdiction of the law enforcement authority. Technical talks will continue during this period on the involvement of local judges and prosecutors in the work of the judicial authorities after a 60-day period has elapsed. They will be appointed by UN Secretary-General for Kosovo and Metohija's special envoy, and in accordance with UN Resolution 1244 of 1999, with respect for ethnic proportions. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the judicial authorities of the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija and Unmika will continue technical negotiations in order to reach agreement on establishing local jurisdiction, law enforcement and other relevant issues. "This is a statement by the justice ministry a few days before permission was given to install the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija. Is there any single sentence that came out of this Justice Department plan? There isn't. Why isn't there? Because there's nothing more called Unmik. Again, I say that the Serbian people, especially Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, have been brutally deceived by the president of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the foreign minister. We are also told that there will be a reconfiguration of Unmik, that Unmik will remain in Serbian environments, but today Unmik is not in Kosovo and Metohija. There are no members wearing the uniform of Unmik, which he wore until yesterday. Today there is only the Eulex mission and their representatives. What did they do? They came to the judiciary in Kosovo, Mitrovica, and said that everything they agreed with Unmik representatives would no longer be valid and that a new justice system in Kosovo and Metohija would enter into force as of January 15th, and that the judiciary would act under the laws of the phantom Republic of Kosovo. The question now arises what happens after 15 January, when any person from Kosovo's territory and Metohija is brought in and convicted by the laws of the phantom republic of Kosovo? What will the Ministry of Justice then do then, how will the Government of the Republic of Serbia react, how will it at that time satisfy its citizens in the area of Kosovo and Metohija? What I had warned at the time, that it was only one wish list, a paper that only wanted to buy time and wanted to deceive the Serb people in Kosovo, has now come true. The 15th January will also come and will likely begin the work and the court, but in that court it will not be as the Ministry of Justice has agreed with representatives of the judiciary from Kosovo and Metohija, but this mission will impose its rules and bring its courts, judges, prosecutors and its administrative staff. Normally, they will also receive some Serb who wishes to work in such an institution, but it is a shame that any Serb competes to be in that judiciary, which will operate under the laws of the Republic of Kosovo. I know that Serbs are threatened, and it is likely that individuals will have to, in order to feed the family, apply and compete in such a justice system to work. It is not the types of individuals to blame, but it is the government of the Republic of Serbia because it has not realised what is in this agreement between the Justice and Justice Ministry in Kosovo and Metohija. So Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are waiting for very difficult days, given that we have been deceived and that there is nothing since the reconfiguration of Unmik with the Eulex mission, but that the Unmik mission is being expelled and a new Eulex mission is taking place, and that the Serb people will be able to deal with it. Normally, we are on our own, but we will organize ourselves not to let it happen to us on 17 March 2004 or, worse still, an exodus and googot in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11568	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11569	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this amendment, which I have submitted in front of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group, is to point to a possible entry into the debt crisis of our country, given the current credit responsibility of our country, and also to what is proposed in this part of the budget projection that the planned task will be significant and that our country can introduce into the debt crisis, which almost all countries in the environment have entered, and much more developed countries than our country. Especially since we are witnessing a global economic crisis, where it will be difficult to predict how financial flows will move and what long-term consequences may have to invest in new credit obligations with international financial organisations. During the first nine months, Serbia was in charge of 3.85 billion euros, and at the same time 1.52 billion euros were paid off, chief... Mr. Chairman, please remind Mr. Sulejman Spah, in accordance with Article 103(3), because he is banging on the bench, Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, because under the bench he hits the keys and Mr. Momir Markovic, because he hits the bench with a pencil. I ask you to protect me as a People's Messenger and protect the other Members of the People who attend this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11570	I can only appeal to the Members of the People not to make noise and not to interfere with Ambassador Mašić in his presentation. But for everything else, Mr. Machine, you know, my hands are tied, although I would love to, using the Rules of Procedure, say some of the measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11571	I thank you, but I suppose citizens will be able to see who represents them this time and how they behave in this high house. I guess in the next election, they'll know that they're punishing both that break and the people who are acting inappropriately, extremely rudely and irresponsiblely. So, Serbia's external debt at the end of September this year amounted to 20.53 billion euros, which is 15.4% more than at the end of 2007. Public sector debt has increased by 2.47% and private sector by 22.21%, while foreign debt has been reduced by this time, which is relatively good. The public sector's external debt reached 6.28 billion euros, which is 43.86m euros more than at the end of 2007. Serbian private companies netled 2.5 billion euros in the first nine months of this year, so private sector debt amounted to 14.25 billion euros, which is 22.21% more than in 2007. What is the assessment of competent experts on monetary policy, which is that the structure of our foreign debt at the limit is favourable, because the short-term debt makes up 9.33 percent of the total debt, and the external debt on September 30th was at 60.6% of the gross domestic product and foreign reserve are, for our happiness, still five times the short-term debt, which is considered relatively favourable. However, the transfer of the 60 per cent gross domestic product is already considered problematic for one country's finances, and that is why we want to point out that it must be maximum caution in our country's debt during 2009. Especially if we have in mind that estimates of financial experts, and the Ministry of Finance, and finally the Government, that the growth of gross social product in our country will decrease by a double of the previous years, where it was between 6.5%, and that the planned growth of gross domestic product for 2009 is only 3%. It'll be fine if it's realized, too. We appeal once again to take maximum care of the new duties our country has entered. For the sake of citizens, to have information about what everything is planned to be borrowed, i.e. in which financial institutions and in what amount is our country planning to borrow in 2009, the shortest I will read. A total debt in this projection of 121 billion 223 million is planned with the World Bank of 48 billion 833 million, with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 8.5 billion, with the European Investment Bank 44 billion and 200 million, with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe five billion and 950 million, with Germany's development bank KFW of three billion 910 million. It is planned to lend credit to foreign governments worth eight billion 330 million, and this is the government of Spain, Japan and the Republic of Italy. Finally, in a billion-and-500-dollar business bank, to cover the cost of the University, which is due to be held next year. I think it's something that can't be challenged, because it's a sporting event of a student youth who's going to affirm our country. Further what I want to say, and what might be related to this amendment, is that the payment of domestic interest in 2009, which will burden this budget, will amount to a billion and 159 million, and that will pay domestic interest. Foreign interest payments will amount to 17 billion 667 million, interest payments at guarantees of four billion and 797 million. Then, following borrowing costs, about 400 million dinars were planned for them from the budget. For the principal's repayment of loans or loans in 2009 the budget burden will amount to 42 billion 767 million, paying the principal to domestic creditors 27 billion 834 million, and to foreign lenders 11 billion 431 million. And in the end, the principal's payment by guarantee should charge the budget three billion 498 million. That's more or less what I wanted to say about this amendment. I would use the remaining time to inform the MPs, but, above all, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and in the late and present minister, and it is about credit funds, these are long-term loans for agriculture, which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia received from the budget until the middle of this year. They were so-called. long-term loans that have been granted up to five years and, above all, for the construction and purchase of a irrigation system, then for the purchase of agricultural machinery, for the lifting of multi-annual plantations, for the lifting of plastics and greenhouses, for the lending of livestock production. These loans are due for five years, with a grace period of one to three years. Since 2004, such funds have started to be paid, in fact, at the end of 2008, what was given in 2004 should be returned in some way to the budget, as out of the total lending funds provided by these foundations 80% were budget funds, 10% of the guarantee fund and 10% of the assets of the business banks. In 2004, two billion and 669 million were given as long-term loans, and things should return to the budget by logic, because they were as they were from the budget. In 2005, two billion and 232 million were given, in 2006, three billion 434 million and in 2007 a billion and 692 million. In 2008, it went in a different way by lending to business banks, and only interest was subsidized from the budget. So there's been an incentive through interest. My question to the Minister of Finance, as well as the Minister of Agriculture, is, if they can deliver information to all MPs, how much of these funds have been paid out of the budget during this four-year period of 2004, or over five years, how much has been recovered from the business banks. I'll just say briefly some business banks, it's the National Savings Bank, which, for example, in 2005, gave 574 million dinars, then Exim Bank, Jubanka ad, Jubmes Bank, Hipo Alpe Adria Bank, Commercial Bank, Vojvodina Bank and former Pannonian Bank, and I think it's now the Inteza Bank. So how much of these funds that have been given as loans to encourage the development of agricultural production have been returned, where they are located and whether they are available, above all, to the Ministry of Agriculture, given the restrictive budget that has been set for agricultural production this year. In view of the short time, as president of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture and as a man who deals with agriculture, when I explain the amendments that we of the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group have given to the increase of subsidies and the increase of funding for the Veterinary Administration, because here in the previous debate, we could hear what objective problems may be and absolutely support my fellow veterinarians to resist, that all costs that the Ministry of Agriculture has towards them, and in terms of the reconciliation of obligations in the process of implementing the animal health care programme, to make it worth their while, and we will do everything possible to increase these funds that are planned for the Veterinary Authority and that in 2009, our cattle fund is protected from dangerous livestock diseases. Thank you. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11572	Thank you. Mr. Momir Markovic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in moral people the signature means everything, in moral people the word means everything. In Serbia, once agreements, agreements, big deals were concluded on an honorable note. It used to be -- he gave the word and won't step on it. So much for morale, for the record. And if a moral person mentioned me, believe me, in this context, I'd be worried. I allow all moral people to mention me, and these are the people who have trampled their signature, my word, who are there because of one big thief, one of them, who stole 78 papers that meant mandates, which meant 78 resignations, I don't allow people like that to take my name in their mouths because I don't let my name get dirty and because of those who gave birth to me, and because of the ones I gave birth to. Another truth, I've never banged on him or anyone else's bench keys because I think such keys would damage the inventory of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11574	The People's Messenger Sulaiman Spaho has the word, but it is mentioned, and it is called to a line.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11575	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a citizen mentioned me earlier and said my name, as if I were supposed to be doing something there. No, Mr. Vice President, I didn't do anything, I was just reading this book, "The Fallen Touch of Tomislav Nikolic." If it's hitting, as you say, and it is, this is what the people are going to hit you with. First of all, the vice president once said there was a sound, that's the sound of a warning, that as soon as the citizens of Serbia hear, they see that something is going on here abnormally, that it's a thief. You took our mandates, and that makes some noises seem to you. It seems to you as long as you come out here you'll hear noises. How can this side not hear anything? They'd go out and they'd say there's something out there. Don't mention my name anymore, it won't be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11576	Thank you. Mr. Momchilov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Serbian citizens, so here's one previous speaker called on Serbian citizens to see how the SRS parliamentary group behaves, and I also want to clarify a simple fact for Serbian citizens again. Maybe an SRS MP doesn't fit in like this, but I really do. The thing is very simple, we just don't allow...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11578	Excuse me, Mr. Momchilov, are you answering the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11579	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. It can be understood as a replica, and I could have asked for it. It's unbearable for us from the U.S.S. to be misrepresented. If you go to our Assembly's site, you'll see parliamentary groups and you'll see parties. You will see that an MP group, you call it that, continues to call itself the SRS. If you see our committees look at the composition, look at the new parliamentary group, look behind that stands the SRS. How much more of that fake representation! It's not about morale, it's about legitimacy. There's no legitimacy. Someone will say that you have some legal right maybe, you don't have it either, you're illegal and you're only experiencing our protest against such a situation here. Who's the main culprit? It's not you, it's not the thief's fault when he steals, it's the one who tolerates him, it's society's fault, it's the one who has both the possibilities and the mechanisms to stop something like that. Therefore, these Serbian citizens should also know, you see, the group of citizens is interesting, some of them resigned from the SRS when they wanted to start another party. How is it possible in your ranks, dear citizens and gentlemen, that one of them is returning the mandate and the other are not returning? We are now protesting in a certain way against your misbehaving, so to speak. There are people among you who don't behave that way, and we're just telling you that this insolence can't get in the way forever. We expect not from you, a thief will never do anything to accuse and restrict himself, we expect from others who shouldn't tolerate it, and that's certainly the majority that's here on the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11580	Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment? The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11581	I think this discussion on the draft bill on budgets is interesting for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because on the basis of these amendments and on the basis of the discussions, it can be seen what kind of policy is being conducted, with the difference that when something is written in the draft budget law, the government representatives will then claim that in 2009 they will implement what is written. We from the opposition when we submit the amendment, so we ask for it to be redecorated, always make sure that it is better for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, cheaper for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, making sure that it is in line with some of the general interests and needs of the development of the Republic of Serbia. I have repeatedly warned you that the amendments in which you stand are deleted by some member of a very inspiring amendment, and again I have to tell you, another part of your answer, or if we share it on paragraphs, then I have to support the third paragraph, and when it comes to this under number 24, 25 and 26, because the Law on Public Debt and the Law on the Budgetary System requires that in one of the members of the Budget Law, these, if I could say so, long-term obligations and the state of debt of the Republic of Serbia, and you gave it under a), b) and c) very transparently. Anyone who intervenes in this article has to explain it, to point out what it's really about. We are now on chapter b. I'd like to ask the MPs, I know it's hard to carry the same booklet on the budget, but it's on page five. The opening statement says -- the Republic of Serbia will approve project loans up to 121 billion dinars in 2009. So there was a framework for borrowing the Republic of Serbia. However, according to the Public Debt Act, when we talk about direct borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, there is also so-called. Indirect borrowing, there is also when the Republic of Serbia only issues guarantees, I think that under a) were guarantees, so this is about direct borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. The government plans to owe 121 billion. For what? The amount of funds is needed for some projects. How are your projects? By the logic of things, they're expected to be development projects. To be more precise, Madam Minister, since we don't have enough of our own battery then let's borrow ourselves so we don't lose the pace of development to catch a connection with the normal world. That's where my praises end at the government's expense. I hope you're quite satisfied. I think that's enough. Too much? So he's still getting into his head. I thought he was just getting in his pocket, and now I see him getting in his head. Good, we made progress last night. Now here we have seven, the Roman marks are in question, chapters, where the Government sends us a clear message, and that message is -- in the course of 2009, there will be seven groups, probably about 20 special borrowing agreements, on loan for projects, etc., but all of this has to come here to the Assembly to pass a law on confirming the agreement. So this is just about projections, conjecture and constraint as far as the above line is concerned. We give permission not to go over that line. So it couldn't be 122 billion, it could be 121, although this has both a dinar and a foreign currency aspect, it's variable. If we don't want this dinar, then we're going to have to take as a criterion this foreign exchange, but here we have problems, going both in dollars and in euros, I think. Let's understand it's a technical problem. However, the question arises whether these investments are future, are these loans necessary in 2009, given the general state of the economy, to announce major problems? I can also agree with Mladjan Dinkic, it's really a demand problem, and when the demand problem comes up, it means, it's right, there's not to be anything made for supplies. It used to have some excuse, but now there's no excuse. You have to get a reduction in the physical volume of production, no supplies, it's got to be for a known buyer. It's some logic in Japan that's been going on for 30 years, so they don't even need computers for warehouses, because they know in advance where the goods are going. We're far from that stage and we're aware of that. Are these investments that you are planning, you plan to be in charge in 2009, will they all be realised if we are in debt in 2009 or will they be transferred for 2010 - 2011? That's another question. Does borrowing, does this sub b mean that we're just going to ratify those agreements? So the agreements are going to be closed, we're going to ratify these agreements, there's some dynamics about how funds are used, whether something's being used right now, whether something in the second half of the year, the last quarter, whether something's being transferred for next year. In this respect, this amendment is justified because it requires basic information on this matter. All in the context, as you said, of major financial global crises. You know, you're confusing us a little bit. We have a part of the government that scares us of the global financial crisis, and we have a part of the government that encourages us to the financial global crisis. You can laugh, but Bozidar Djelic is not a cat's cough, although he is not a lion, but he is not a cat's cough. When he says, it has some weight. He bought a Southern that year, remember? I expect in a few days he'll buy the flagman's fiat. I have this problem that I really remember everything and everything. What Djelic did, not to speak, the public knows. We didn't want to submit any amendments to this part. You know why? Because it's essentially a list of some wishes and good wishes. Most of these projects are probably justified. I'm just gonna count something for the record. He says like this -- with the World Bank regional development of Bora, the Borani would never forgive us. Further - traffic reconstruction, the provision of improved services at local level. We don't understand that. The promotion of public finances management -- that's what they would never give you money for, to tell you the truth, but when that agreement comes here, we're not going to vote on it. It says - additional funding of Serbia's health reform project. While Tomica is a purse, there's no way we're voting for it, and she's a Vukajlovic, as it is, there's no way. Corridor 10 -- probably necessary, but Mrkonjic would have to explain to people that Corridor 10 is not only a highway, since those from Kalanovic's ministry and earlier Gilas, they thought it was just a road, a ground floor. Corridor 10 is a complex project. Let them look at the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, so I don't waste my time after we leak. Says the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a project of the National Investment Plan. That's not what we're going to vote for, honestly. We helped you when it came to BK, so you know. However, Todorovic sued President Tadic for misusing his post during the election campaign. Todorovic is doing well with these lawsuits, he gets everything, so you know, and this is for damage damage to reputation and honor. However, the President of the Republic does not come to trial, there is a lot of work to be done. He's always abroad when the hearing is scheduled, but he'll come, and he'll pay. Furthermore, clinical centres two, this is a project long ago, a project of the National Investment Plan, the development of local and regional infrastructure - NIP, we will talk about this in particular, twice the development of local infrastructure, the education sector. Then you have on the other side -- the recovery of the slide two, the recovery of the slide three, the reconstruction of the water and sewerage, the reconstruction of the local heating system in Serbia, that's this with the Germans, it's been going on for a long time. Now this is not clear to us -- a special agreement will be with the Government of Spain, with the Government of Japan and the Government of the Republic of Italy, so you have this for the University. We've made a commitment here. So this is what we're going to consider, the health of God in 2009. Something's probably gonna fall off. However, I believe that the debt framework during 2009 of 121.2 billion dinars is a large sum for the Republic of Serbia. You'll vote this out, but at least use these remarks to make another selection of priorities compared to this list you've offered. Make another priority selection, because if you don't make that selection, if we do this, then it all goes from point b to point c) - and there's direct debt, indirect debt, long-term liabilities, etc. From that you can see, there will be an opportunity for the next amendments to be said, that it is 8.4. I think you have a debt error here. You put it here that's below 8.4 billion euros. According to some of my mathematics, in 2009, we will end up with 8.8 billion euros in direct debt to the Republic of Serbia, and I am not talking about the second part of the debt. I hope there's still a chance we can talk about this, because over-indulgence can be dangerous. How dangerous it is to see from the next views of this same member, where it is said of delaying the settlement of obligations that will be due in 2009. You are about to extend most of these obligations in some way in the next chapter of this same article, and just to remind you that in the first article you stated that 42 billion dinars will be used to pay off only the principals in 2009. Put those figures on, and you'd do well to consider the amount of budget in 2000, the amount of budget it was in 2001, what budget it was in 2002, so take a break and specify how much you plan to do in 2009. You see how many times the bigger is - is the better standard for citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11582	Thank you. According to the amendment, Mr Radojko Obradovic answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11583	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Article 3 of the Budget Law is a very interesting member who tells us what state guarantees will give and what is envisaged and what is the state of credit. Among other things, this article contains those 50 billion that have been changed by the government's amendment to 40 billion, which is designed to improve the liquidity of the economy. The first and basic question is, we've already talked about it here, when commercial banks give a guarantee or when a company asks for a guarantee -- it always has a certain price, because it implies a certain risk. When the state of Serbia provides guarantees, it doesn't cost anything, it's free. A similar fund was created by the Government of Slovenia. As far as I'm aware, they have executed the guarantee of the fund in some first-class banks abroad. Another important thing when it comes to taxpayers' money, and our primary task here would be to keep the most in mind, the DSS MPs' club asked a parliamentary question a month ago. We asked for a budget report in the first 11 months of this year. We got that answer. It took that 30-day deadline, it was a very large material and we received material and thank the Minister for Finance. It is a very extensive material and we can see very well from this material the state of the administration in Serbia and how the budget is even discussed. We had a chance to hear a statement from the finance minister saying that the original plans were 200 billion higher than what eventually entered the budget. When we look at the execution, then we see best how the state administration treats taxpayers' money. There are items that were realised from zero percent in the first 11 months. There are items that are realised by 20%, 12%, 13%, 15%. That went somewhere else, but I'm sure those funds should have been booked. It should have been assumed that this would be taken from the taxpayers and should have been put into play. It costs everything, costs these projects, costs tenders that are then cancelled and all that has a certain price -- only when it comes to money that the state collects from taxpayers, it has no price at all. The example is the Ministry of Culture, they were looking for money for employees' expenses, they realised 33%. They asked for some material, they realized 72%. They asked for ongoing repairs and maintenance, apparently planning to fix something over the year, realised 50%. Of course, we don't have the depth of what these demands look like and we don't have an accurate insight into the budget of what a single item in which the ministry represents. But when you see how much or what ease the funds are sought, which are not realised afterwards, then you realize how much there is a free relationship to taxpayers' money and how much work we have yet to do in the order of public finances. When you look at the division of infrastructure, a huge amount of projects are envisaged, for which obviously there is no money, because the revenues in the budget are much less than anticipated and all those items are realised with zero. Have the projects been done, have the tenders been prepared? Because probably, if you were looking for funds, you had to enter a certain cost that required the realization and preparation of a project like that. If the realization is zero, since we have a constant need here to revise certain plans and revise certain ideas, then it is possible that some of these projects will never be realised. These follow-up costs needed to realise these projects were obviously spent money. What would happen is, that question is of course not only for the finance minister, but for all of us, because the National Assembly is passing the necessary laws, and what is a key flaw in our administration and one of the reasons why the State Audit has to start working as soon as possible. We don't have any institutions that analyze the positive effects of any new borrowing. There are things that are undeniable, but how much is it going to increase the gross social product from the realisation of one of these loans? How many people are going to get a job on the realisation of one of these loans? We didn't have that kind of analysis for the National Investment Plan either. No project from the National Investment Plan has that kind of analysis for us. It's supposed to be the finance ministry sector, but it's one of the jobs that the State Audit has to do. Unfortunately, the State Audit doesn't have the capacity to do it right now, it doesn't have the capacity to do the final bill, but it's something we all have to work on together. What we have in response to the Ministry of Finance - the report on budget implementation, the final account, the State Audit report and the draft budget for next year are a single act. Unfortunately, in Serbia, we still consider the draft budget as just an individual act, higher than all these accompanying documents.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11584	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Rogovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11585	Mr President-in-Office, Madam Minister, the SNS parliamentary group within Sections (a), (b) and (v), insisting that the same in the draft budget law is being deleted, only wants to draw attention to both you and the public that the Republic of Serbia is a great responsibility. In my address, I will give a special accent, unlike my predecessors, to a segment of the external responsibility of the Republic of Serbia. We know that the old rule -- the greater the debt, the longer and the time period that it returns for -- is also increasing. In my presentation, I cannot help but remind that Serbia's external debt at the end of 2008, these days, is more than 21 billion euros. Indeed, by analysing countries in the environment and especially neighbouring Serbia's countries, we can point out that the debt is almost three times lower than Hungary's debt, twice Croatia's debt and 50% lower than Slovenia's debt. The most important role of these financial transactions is to solve financial problems, but only for a period of no more than three to twelve months. In this, the next and second periods, we must not, as the country in charge, forget that in that time and meanwhile, there is a obligation to return and interest and principally to the previous part of the borrowing. The problem would not be a problem for our foreign reserve and Serbia's debt, if the situation were not like the fourth quarter situation this year, and especially the situation of the global economic crisis, related to the continuation of 2009. Automaticly, related to next year, the possibility of borrowing and finding funds on the international market is lower. Our foreign exchange reserves, I pointed out earlier, that under normal business conditions everything does not look like what it will look like in 2009, is enough to service debts, but really under the conditions of the major economic crisis, these funds are certainly inadequate. In 2009, Serbia is due to pay around 600m euros on the basis of debt, 400m euros for the main part of the debt, and the rest of it worth about 200m euros for the income of interest, based on current borrowings and signed contracts. Public debt can be reduced in terms of growth of gross domestic product, which is now and in recent years at 60-70%, but we need to remember the period when this relationship was up to 170% and more, and I am really, not without reason, afraid of this debt ratio and gross domestic product in 2009. Public debt can also be reduced by paying off debts, which our country used in the previous period and also by regular repayments, regardless of the crisis ahead, I don't think that this banking system and the NBS system and foreign reserves are at risk. I think even under the conditions of an enormous financial crisis, it will be possible to service the payment of such a debt. Now I'm going to look back on sectors, or categories of borrowing. The debt in 2008 was about 15% higher than the debt in 2007. Of this, the public sector's debt amounted to 6.3 billion euros, with it representing about 30% of the total debt. Unfortunately, private sector debt is over 14 billion euros. Of that, private companies are in debt at 50% of total borrowing. What is particularly worrying is the increase in private entrepreneurship debt, i.e. private enterprises in 2008 by about 2.5 billion euros. The debt of the banking sector in 2008 was reduced by about 13% and accounts for about 17% of the total debt of the Republic of Serbia. The only advantage in all of this is that the value of short-term loans is about 10% of the total debt and that foreign reserves exceed five times the value of short-term loans. Because of this, Serbia belongs to the category of medium-indebted countries and another worrying fact is that in the first nine months of 2008, we were in charge of four billion euros, and we paid 1.5 billion euros of basic debt and about half a billion euros of interest on debts. Thank you very much. During this presentation, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11586	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2). Budgetary system law. The word is Dr. Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11587	Ladies and gentlemen, we have mentioned several times today how much our foreign debt is, over 20 billion euros, and the fact that more than that, almost 12 billion euros belongs to a debt relating to so-called. Private debt, doesn't go into the public debt category. What can be seen from the government's display or general behaviour is the fact that they take more care of the public debt, as if not private debt, and is certainly directly linked to the macroeconomic stability that was designed for next year. So it may surprise the statement, the government's report, in considering the amendments, as if they'd realized that the amendmentr wrote, say, that penicillin is not an antibiotic, but a psychotropic agent. We asked for a little more transparency in what is at the point of g), where the state of public debt is shown by its categories. We really think it is a penicillin antibiotic, but only its indication area, where and to whom it can be reasonably given and how it can be spent. Looking at how this was given in the draft budget, we can immediately point out why it was important to get more transparent. It is a fact that when it came to credit obligations that MPs must have been suggested to vote on it and to plead on it. We, who have decided on this, as a rule, have not voted in favour of such duties, but now we are faced with the fact that we do not even know exactly how much is left, except for the next year what is scheduled to be paid, and how justified it is, because the mass of these duties, even in the internal sector, of internal debt, which is not small, 3.2 billion euros, see that there are items that we can already critically interpret. If we are sure that the retirement for the PIO fund and the separation for PIO employees and farmers is something that we had to do and we had to accept for the sake of the pensions to be paid and the fund worked out, because the disease of the funds is a disease that lasts for decades, so we can not only show it as a lack of this or that government, but we failed to try to make these funds truly investment and important, but still rags, still being complemented, we still manage and bypass it to meet the basic social obligations, because apparently the pension has become a social category, then we see that the loan for economic development, one of the items in the internal debt is 8.6 billion euros. You see the item by which we are now paying off an embassy building in Brussels that costs 12.5m euros. It's totally unacceptable. The economic development of Serbia, where we are constantly getting, we just had a message from the Chamber of Commerce asking for a dozen taxing measures on what to do to businesses, the trend is that there is a accumulation of the medium and small sector, large companies fall. Their rate of frequency in the number of companies of about 8-9 thousand entities, something below 0.8-0.9%, now large businesses. This little one is just crying out for help asking the state to meet them at different levels. She even predicted Serbia's economic development. Obviously, you start to wonder what works and works well in Serbia, hard to find an excuse, because if you did, we wouldn't be in trouble with the balance, or on the budget's revenue side. If we look at the second part, the foreign debt to foreign creditors, then we'll see what's really being financed and where it's going to go around, in this year's planned, nine and a few billion euros, which should come back. Macro-economic stability, support for macroeconomic stability. The government itself has given a programme in which it thinks it can preserve macroeconomic stability through certain 49m-euro credit arrangements. This should be supporting macroeconomic stability, for small and medium-sized enterprises in charge of abroad this year, around 33m euros. It's a huge amount of money taken from our bank, from our commercial banks, but also from international banks, this is how far I see the Government of Italy. When we mention the Government of the Republic of Italy, it financed, helped, in fact, projects in our healthcare, which Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, 3.5m euros skillfully used to get us what we didn't need. That's what we talked about. Neither did we get the government's response, nor the finance minister nor the health minister, why it spent 3.5m euros on dialysis machines, which we absolutely didn't need. It is a gift. It'll be paid by some other state. We didn't take it as a loan, but for the reasons of some normal relationship in communication and with us MPs, and with the Government of Italy, which I say again in these difficult moments, which affects the recession of the economy and that state, gives 3.5m euros for things we obviously don't need. Furthermore, the recovery of flood preventions, etc., which was in Vojvodina a few years ago, you remember, this is something to return, about 9 million and 600,000 euros, our MPs say that you will rarely find that the matter has ended, that the preventive measures taken in this recovery process have proved effective. It seems we should pray to God that something from Transylvania, from Carpathia, doesn't come, so the flood doesn't happen again. There are other items, say, slides, for example from where I come from. When you start an election campaign in these villages that have hit the rinks, local authorities are unable to resuscitate it. Obviously, she did not receive a portion of the loan for that, and we have to pay four million euros neatly for this year, as planned to replace the debt that was taken to resupply such facilities. In addition to the television, marketing moves that the government had in its time, usually at a time when it happened, a few months after that, we are not aware of the shifts that are taking place on that plan, but of course we can't easily fight the erosional changes, geodetic conditions. We know it's a very expensive investment, but continuity in solving problems, as we see continuity in publishing. We were just about to show by amendment, in front of the SNS, that we wanted the information of such species that were only taxed here, not to collapse the budget-making system, so that Article 10 obliges us to do so and it must be shown in the general part of the budget. Thank you. ( During this speech, SRS MPs were banging on the benches).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11588	By amendment, Mr. Konstantin Arsenijević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11589	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, I support the government's position on this amendment that did not support it. However, here I want to highlight a few problems when it comes to public debt, first of all I don't think it's good that this debt is delayed and it's just increasing. I think it would be good if at least part of the public debt towards pensioners was resolved this year, if such an economic situation already conditioned that it could not be fully resolved. But I'm asking another question here, and it's about the debt to the Owl Fund. According to the Law on the Army of Yugoslavia, which entered into force on 1 January 2008, article 193 states: "The government of the Republic of Serbia will, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law, adopt an act laying down the way, procedure and dynamics of the reconciliation of the achieved and unmistakable obligations towards the beneficiaries of military pensions created under the rules of the PIO military insurance company until the entry into force of this law." It's been three months, three months overrun, and that debt still hasn't been defined by the government or classified as a debt to these users. I ask the question: who is responsible for failing to comply with the applicable laws? I don't think anyone's in the interest of such an undefined condition when it comes to the possibility that this debt can be defined within two or three hours and the person who has knowledge of four basic accounting operations. I conclude that someone was not in the interest of defining this debt and expressing it as such, and what I have, with the data, is a debt that is not so small. It stands, as the main major, about four billion and 500 million dinars plus interest and plus court fees and obligations stemming from disputes that individuals face before municipal courts across Serbia. I ask the question who is responsible for not defining this question and making it clear? The next question is the problem I've already asked several times, but I have to, I have a moral obligation to people, no matter how funny and boring it may be, and I don't think it is, because it's about families who are deprived of their right to basic life existence because they don't receive pensions either in Montenegro or Serbia. I have already said several times that around 65-70 pensioners have deleted the problem from this list for a year and a half. What I do know is the mistakes of our government, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which did not resolve the issue adequately. I don't think we have the right to violate fundamental human rights. I'm not saying there were no attempts at abuse among these people. After all, it's every man's right to choose to live where he thinks he's getting better. So, if there was an abuse, I wonder if there was a complaint against such people, did they initiate procedures to violate legal elemental norms? If not, then who has the right to dispute and not to solve it. What I know is, I'm saying more now because of these people who have been brought into such a situation, there are extremely difficult situations, people are having a stroke, they're in a life-threatening crisis, and they can't take appropriate measures. Once again, it's a good circumstance that we've solved their health care at least. The latest information is that it is reportedly agreed with the Republic of Montenegro that this problem, around 50 of these people, must be resolved by Serbia. That's why I insist and ask for an answer to what time limit will this issue be settled? I think it's primarily in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Defence. I'm asking this question to be resolved urgently. The next question is the pensioner's problem from Slovenia. Since Slovenia was left alone, 18 years old, we have yet to resolve the issue of pensioners, Serbian citizens who earned their pension in Slovenia. Slovenia rejects it in a nice way. It's in her favor. However, our citizens are deprived of that right. I can only conclude that the Serbian government has not responded adequately to address this problem. Unfortunately, I don't know if that's true, but I have to say, I have information that Mr. Svilanovic, who was at the time of the foreign minister, has delayed solving this problem for his wife's employment in Mercator. I think we have so many arguments and ways to force the Government of Slovenia to have this problem, and how significant to a number of our people, to resolve this problem, and in this sense I urge the Government to take measures to address these and other issues that are in the interest, above all, of our people. I understand, the state interests are above all else, but we must not ignore every citizen's interests as an individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11590	The word, according to the amendment, has Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11591	This is the highlight of hypocrisy. So, it's good when MPs from the ruling coalition also submit a certain amendment, and it's good when they advocate it, but you have to understand one thing, so I'm talking to PUPS MPs, that you did what you did and you delegated yourself as MPs with this draft budget to pensioners. So, you entered this parliament exclusively by campaigning in the pre-election campaign for the interests of pensioners. You lied to them without a doubt that pensions would be harmonised in a way 70% of the average personal income. That's not gonna happen. In talks with this government, the IMF proposed to increase pensions by 5% in 2009 and to comply with an inflation rate that is supposed to be 8.5%, so that pensions are still at some level, meaning a year higher by about 13.5%. This government has decided to freeze pensions, you've agreed to that. What you've now said in the form of an amendment here, that's what you do when MPs are asked questions, not when someone sincerely advocates amendments. You must understand that you are in the ruling coalition. Let's start from the assumption that the finance minister and this government will not accept your amendment. Here, you're on that test. Will you vote for this budget? And why don't you vote when you've already agreed that the pensioners on 31 December 2009 have a lower pension of 10%. In the meantime, it all collects, and the drugs collect, for one percent they've already accumulated, and we'll see what's going to happen since January and spring. So none of the MPs like you have so far failed their pre-election promises, to the extent that she has actually delegated herself and you can hardly go out for this pay phone. You stand up here and say you need to put pressure on the Slovenian government. (President: Please return to the topic. But I'm talking about the amendment, Mr. Novakovic. (President: The amendment was submitted by Mr Milet Poscurica. I have my own, to say the specific opinion regarding the presentation of fellow MPs from the PUPS, which is in line with the expectations of citizens and pensioners in this country. We didn't fail the pensioners' promises, that's what you did. You swore in gray hair and gray hair, and claimed that there would be none unless you fulfilled those promises. Not only have you not fulfilled your promises, but many pensioners in 2009 will seal their fate by humiliating their small incomes anyway. Then you give yourself the right to discuss something here, so it's supposed to be like you're pushing for something, so you're agitating here, or you're appealing to the government to put pressure on the Government of Slovenia. What are you talking about? You're part of the government, and you did it to cut pensions by 10% to pensioners next year. Think about it a little bit. So you have dramatically failed the expectations of those voters you allegedly advocated in the campaign. That's true, it's burdensome for you and it will be burdensome whenever you come out for this pay phone, because you're unprincipled, you vote for the budget, you support the government, your vice president has the biggest expenditures and the highest estimated travel expenses. Where's he gonna travel to? Who's he representing? Maybe he'll travel to Igalo? Stop disabling citizens of pensioners whose position is economically and socially very difficult. Face the truth, you support a budget that is against the interests of the pensioners, and you change your mind, and you explain to the voters what you're doing it for. You're obviously working for personal gain, because of a certain number of people... (President: Mr. Nikolic, I warn you to return to the topic, please. ) I comment, watch out, you can't now, Mr. Novakovic, I'm just finishing up, there's no need to warn me. So we cannot be so hypocritical and disavow the Serbian public from this pay phone and especially those who are socially endangered, it is unacceptable. At the very least, your obligation as chairman is not to allow it. Because they promised to raise pensions. Not only are they not there, they're not just going to stay on the same level, they're going to be lower by 10%. Then this is where the representatives of this political group are coming out who are supposed to be in favour of some kind of pensioners' interests. With your participation in this budget, you have sealed the fate of the pensioners, but believe me, it won't stay that long, next year is the year in which the most likely and will be the elections, then the pensioners, but also the other citizens, I am convinced, think very well whether they believe exactly all promises, because in this year when the campaign was very, very, very deceived, especially by representatives of the United Pensioners Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11592	Amendment to Article 3 is on the agenda. The Legislative Committee considers that it does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Momo Colaković, Mr. Zoran Krasic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11593	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the honourable MPs, I just wanted to respond to my predecessor's statement because I don't see any reason to dispute us as MPs that we have no right to say anything about this speaker. We've been chosen the same way, as you say, by the people, as you do, and don't honor us that we have no right, that we have deceived the pensioners, etc. That's what I'm going to talk about in the final word, because I left ten minutes at the beginning of this principle debate. I just want to say right now, you're wrong, we'll see, we're those promises for 2008, so for this year, we've fulfilled, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has made it happen. The fact that, as you claim, that 10% is unscathed, it's also for others. How about if it wasn't for that, too? What's gonna happen in 2009, and we'll see about that. Please, exactly in the budget it is said that the level reached in 2008 will not change. What if it's under there? And then they won't change, they'll keep their pensions on tomnivo. So the protection mechanism is established. That's how we understand and understand it, and that's why we supported the budget. And to say something about promises, I apologize, I won't be long. Please, we promised in 2008 that increase of 10%, and in 2009 we proposed to pass a law on pension-inhabited insurance. Please, let's find a solution here together. So the law that will regulate the issue of pension harmonisation, as we said -- 70% of pensions relative to the average salary, so we'll see. It'll be hard, I agree, but we'll open the conversation. Why we are now honored that we have promised this in 2008, and that is not true. So in 2009, we're going to open a debate and I'm asking you to talk about the law then. Next, I'd like to ask you, this law that you say is executed, and it is for pensioners, was brought in in 2005. The minister was a 126th vote in this assembly. That's when the law was passed. Please don't talk about it, I call on everyone, in line with the Prime Minister's proposal, to conduct an amendment debate and to adopt this budget by 24 hours the day after tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11594	We're back on the subject. Mr. Krasic has the word. All right, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11595	Articles 27, 104, 225 and 226. So, among other things, Article 3. The draft budget law also treats debt matter towards pensioners. So when I was talking about debt and when I looked back on what my colleague from PUPS said, I was absolutely on the subject. So look at Article 3. The draft budget law, so you'll see that I'm right. Secondly, no one disputes the right to be Members of the People's Parliament with respect and older colleagues from the PUPS. You are legally elected here, as all other MPs have been chosen. I'm talking about legitimacy here. You have roughly deceived your electoral body. So, the fact is that everything in the budget is growing and growing in line with 8.5% inflation, which is scheduled for next year. They pay too. Everything but pensions. You agreed to that. That's a fact. What's that all about? He'll come to the agenda, and he's in line with this debate, pension insurance law. That's what it says. You've fulfilled your pre-election promise for 2008, you've entered the government. It's the only pre-election promise you've ever fulfilled. Of the 70% of the average personal income, of course, in 2008, there was nothing, then you were busy with the government and entering the government, and setting up government; in 2009, not that there would be no 70% of the average personal income, it might be, but who knows what personal incomes will be, given the government's draft budget. But it certainly won't be 70%. So you didn't keep it and you can't keep your promise in 2009. Of course we're all even here, of course there's no difference. The MP is also the one who is 18 years old and who is 78 years old. All due respect for your age, but we're talking about your political promise here. So, in the pension insurance law that will come, you've frozen pensioners. They will receive 10% less pension in a year. I ask the question - what are you doing in that government?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11596	So the part under g) refers to the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia, with precisely specified parts and that is not the topic on the agenda. The Rules of Procedure aren't hurt. I'm taking a break from an hour. We'll continue at 3 p.m. Mr. Colakovic or Mr. Krasic will get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11597	We continue to work, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Krasic has his word, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11598	We are on the amendment to Article 3. The bill, under g), where the applicant of the amendment asked to be deleted. Of course, since the state of debt of the Republic of Serbia is shown under g) as part of this, and this is an obligation that the government must show the state of the debt in the budget, so as not to interpret it as harassment, the debt is divided into chapters. We have direct obligations, within that subgroup -- internal debt, and then we have external debt. That's a little bit of a page number. Then we have the other creditors. And there's the Parisian, and the London Club, and some of the states that were our lenders. What is most important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that total direct commitments amount to slightly more than eight billion euros. Then we have indirect obligations, where the state appears as a guarantee. This has also been divided into a number of sub-colonions and total obligations, indirect commitments by the Republic of Serbia, amount to 900m euros. When the internal and external debt is collected, we come up with data of 8,938,000,000 euros in debt from the Republic of Serbia. I have to say this is the first year that the state of debt, maturity and commitment per year, etc., is the first time shown. It seems to me that in earlier budgets this wasn't shown, even with interest rates, when the first war arrived, what are the obligations in 2009, when all these commitments end. So this has to be in the budget law, so I'm surprised by the request to delete this. It wouldn't be good to wipe it off. Then it wouldn't be transparent. The amendment is to delete under g). If deleted under g) then no one in Serbia knows what the debt is, and you have a legal obligation to show it. What can I do now that the man who wrote the amendment knows nothing? That's his problem. That's what you end up with. It is important that we have that debt of nearly nine billion euros, for which there is a commitment from the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, count, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that is your obligation. If this is shared with the total number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we come up with information on how much each citizen has to do with it. I believe that, especially for the past eight years, there has been uncontrollable borrowing and that, compared to this under number 1) internal debt, there is a selection and there is a debt to some social groups, but I think that this second part of the debt to abroad is much more dangerous. Whether it's some financial organizations from the World Bank system or some countries, regardless, because if we're in charge, then we're vulnerable. I know this isn't crazy, because I know it's hard to get into the head of the DS, so it needs to happen again and again. That's not the problem. We're not a distraction from the assembly, the assembly is going to work. Anyway, let's get some things straight. I think it's a big debt for our economy. There's a possibility that it can be delayed, reprogrammed, but eventually it has to come on its own to pay. I think the debt was increased compared to what was found on the 21st of January 2001, and that's a pretty big debt...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11599	Mr. Krasic, I apologize, the MPs are quite justified in saying that there is no tone. That's right. There's some kind of malfunction on the transmitter and they're trying to get rid of that malfunction as soon as possible, but we're going to ask that everything that doesn't go with the tone be broadcast in a complete way, as soon as that malfunction is removed. I suggest we work. It's just a picture, but a ton-free picture doesn't mean anything to us. There's only one in the congregation. There goes your tone and your picture. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11600	There's a picture, there's no tone. It's a son-in-law. Considering how much I've been punished, I look like a son-in-law. I'm not afraid of your punishments. I believe that this is a great task, and that the representatives of the economic part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and here we have several of these parts, I still have to count this part of Mladjan Dinkic as one economic policy, one economic vision, what Bozidar Djelic is, that is another variant, Mirko Cvetkovic and Ms. Minister, that is some third variant. If we go further along these plots and the importance of the X corridor, then we can go suddenly, how many economic views there are on our reality. I think there's been this uncontrollable borrowing and the state of our economy doesn't give us the opportunity to borrow like this. Yes, this is a chapter where we talk about the actual state of debt, but from that fact, we need to learn some lessons. So, let's do a little bit less in debt, let's not be in charge of restructure public finances or of functioning a system that we're all sure has nothing to do with. Who else in this country thinks that what happened around the judiciary will take place on 1 January 2010? Well, even those who suggested it are certain there's nothing to it. Mr. Batic, I know it would be good, but you know it doesn't have anything on it. If someone's in charge of some money on that basis, it's the same as throwing money away. But 35% is always left for some mind-selling services. But right now, we need to start talking, and it would be unacceptable from the point of view of the viewers first and foremost to keep quiet about something that was most interesting about this amendment. What was most interesting were promises. You know that folk proverbs are the result of the experience accumulated over the centuries, so you have that people's saying of the army about the shortening and about honesty. However, it has been annulled with us. Now the army doesn't even talk about shorts, because there's hardly anyone to join the army. On 26,000 calls, it's barely 4,800, according to General Ponos. Whether it's an official secret, whether it's a military secret, it's yours to solve it with Apologia, but once it's gone public, let it be known. What's more to be shortened, six months, there's nothing to be shortened, so the army doesn't talk about cutting short because everyone serves as an army in the place where they live. That's where you basically destroyed that there isn't. When he says Pride that the artillery don't have a chance to fire a bullet, it's all gone. There's also this saying about the promise, the promise of joy. You see, on the basis of those sayings, joy is only to those who believe in the promise. All those who believed DS almost wrote that label. People love these illusions, you know, so it's beautiful when a man says, you go to the bank, you sign and you get 1,000 euros in bonds. That sounds nice. The Kragujevci say, here's 700 million, Fiat, we're exporting to Russia, it sounds nice. Who would vote against that? That sounds really nice. Or that SSP, right here, honey and milk, that sounds nice. But it just sounds. When it's supposed to be applied, it hurts, it hurts like hell. Five million people were fine – nothing. They're hoping for more around this Fiat. Better you make the Southers, better a sparrow in your hand than a pigeon on a branch. That's the thing, that's how it works in life. As far as pensions are concerned, I have to do the same to you, and to you, and to your viewers to distract you, the Sunroat pension started with Gordana Matkovic. She was running down the halls here, little woman, dangerous, running away here, she's now an adviser to Boris Tadic, the president. Now she's a counselor. Those of you who feel that you have entered the government to provide the pensioners with a good position, do not talk about it in the Assembly, please. You are chasing Gordana Matkovic, chasing Boris Tadic, chasing Mirko Cvetkovic, Mladjan Dinkic. By the way, get the job done by the public. Just to remind you, a month and a half ago when there was a budget rebalancing speech, I've drawn your attention that it's possible that next year from the promised 70% we come to a real 30%. I told you from this pay phone, you all smiled and you said, come on, he's telling this stuff. No, you're not from a retirement party, you understand my language. But they smiled. We're closer in 2009 to making it 30% of the salary than it's going to go to 70. This is the harsh reality of the eight-year-old economic policy, headed by Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic, with less or more success, and Radovan Jelasic. That's the three without the helm. It has to be thrown out of our economy. They cheer and dress. That's why there's been sunflowers in every economic indicator of one country's performance. It's an address for both you and the PUPS, and for all the MPs in this National Assembly. They've ruined the material base for all of this. They would return Gordana Matkovic to be Minister again or Deputy Prime Minister, but hide her, because it was a Swiss formula, so the IMF does not allow the transfer of funds from the budget to mandatory insurance funds, etc. It was a nice story, so the points were in, so there's a lot of stuff. Why? To make it fall. Why? To punish the pensioners, because they haven't voted for DS in years, do you understand? That's why they're very rationally thinking, corn tantrums, there's nothing else about them. Makiyaveli was a very good man, he thought smartly, the goal justifies every means and the end of the story. Pensioners, social groups from the point of view of the budget are the cost. Young as an economist who knows the income and expenditure side, he has to pay the bills. Whatever's in his way when it's cost. If you need the Assembly's expense, you can cancel the Assembly, you can have the army abolished, you can have the police shut down. Nothing can surprise me from him. State? Cut the country, what's he gonna do with it? Where he can rationalize. (President: Time. It's not time, time's just coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11601	The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Mr. Free Maras, then Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11602	Dear Presidency, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I am sorry that Mr Radovanovic's amendment applicant is not in the room to try to explain his amendment which is certainly meaningful and which, unlike the MEP who put the government in this draft budget, would greatly improve the budget law himself. Here we are faced with a draft budget in which article 4 regulates the payments from the republican budget to the province budget, i.e. the AP Vojvodina budget. According to the constitution, at least 7% are scheduled to merge into the Vojvodina budget from the republican budget. Last year when we talked about this article, or when we submitted amendments to this article, we asked from the LDP a question that I don't think is resolved until today. In addition to the fact that those 7% are very little, that Vojvodina is much more valuable, or much more input into this republican budget, and that through various visions it could be given more to Vojvodina, or return, we have tried several times to make some mechanism based on which we could know how much that is 18% of the income tax on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, or how much that is 42.7% of the income from the company's profits. Why did we ask that question? We also asked last year that, if possible, since it is the Treasury that should define the amount of the funds on the basis of these taxes, to notify the National Assembly at least once in six months, and also to inform the Regional Assembly of the amount of funds that are due on these taxes to be poured into the budget of the Regional Assembly. What does it matter? Because the 2007 budget provided for Vojvodina somewhere in December, and I think that the colleagues who then wrote the amendments to the Republic of Serbia's budget, then in December we were aware that only 30% of the planned funds for Vojvodina were in the province's budget. Now for 2008, we can doubt it, but we still don't know what the exact amount that's been coming together, or how long it's been missing. I guess 2009 will be a big problem. What's the big deal? It will be a problem because the government in Article 4th paragraph 5 proposed to transfer exclusively from one member of the Privatisation Act, based on the privatisation of NIS, 90% of that amount and 400m euros to the province budget, and 10% to the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is about 360 million and thus two comrades, Mr. Pajtic and Mr. Cvetkovic, when they found themselves, informed that they had made a deal, that the missing funds they originally provided for Vojvodina and which were not at 7% level would compensate for these funds to cross the 7% sum from the republican budget that went into the province's budget and they thought that this was the way the thing was done. Madam Minister, this is what I mentioned to you when I gave you my opinion on the Finance Committee, I saw that you were writing something back then, but I didn't hear from you how it was possible that someone, trying to solve the situation that was a commitment under the Constitution, was aware that they were violating the Privatisation Act. You said it was a Lex special. I'd like to, and we'll certainly have a chance to hear that, since the DSS colleagues have submitted about fifteen amendments to this article four, and we'll see how they predicted that these funds would be deployed, or they'd like a Lex specialis, and that they would go to certain parts of the country, as they considered on the basis of their amendments. I think it's extremely irresponsible, that it's extremely unserious. The funds for the AP Vojvodina budget had to be provided according to the law, and not to bring a Lex specialis, it is 400m euros, is that how the NIS was sold, however, you forgot to say, I said the other day, that Serbia's agreement confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the phone session after an hour and a half after the receipt of the 100-page contract, the ministers made a decision at a telephone session to sell and under that contract said that the Republic of Serbia was giving up dividends for 2008, as if that NIS in 2008 was not a republican or that it was not owned by our country. You gave up the sum of about 50m euros. NIS is sold for 350m euros. So 90% of that 350 million is 315 million, 35 million goes into the Republic budget. I must further say that if what is happening to the director of Serbia, otherwise the MP, said Serbia will be able to recover 24% of the 25 that have crossed into the hands of the Centrex company from Vienna, at the Jugorosgas company, which is the mediator in the sale of gas, or gas purchase, Serbia will have to pay that fee. According to the accounts of all the experts involved, it is estimated that around 30m euros will have to be paid by Serbia to recover those 24%, so you will have fivem euros left from the privatisation of the NIS in the republican budget. We talked for days, we were trying to warn the decision to sell the NIS, I am deeply convinced that you, Madam Minister, agree that this is the wrong move, as did the Deputy Prime Minister, who, among other things, repeated and what I said, that Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Prime Minister of the province, Mr Pajtic, broke the law when they decided to break the Privatisation Act, that 90% of the NIS was transferred to the province budget. Mr Dinkic also said the NIS sales contract is very harmful to Serbia. Of course, time will show it all. We expected this government, in which the DS em has a majority prime minister, to try to dissipate the ballast from the last government. We know that in the last government there was a prime minister who belonged to another political option and then we could, though heavy hearts, have some part of our understanding for you, which is why you treat Vojvodina in this way. But what's happened now is just a clear indication that Vojvodina only needs you in pre-election campaigns, that the relationship to Vojvodina is best seen through this Article 4. We are not in a situation, I suppose that's what Prime Minister Cvetkovic thought, too, to respect the constitutional obligation, but we are therefore in a situation to break the law. Come on, Bojan, let's make a deal, here's 90% of the NIS privatisation. I am sorry that certain political parties that come from Vojvodina, I must repeat, which were against this price of 400m euros for NIS, which were against NIS sales in this way, against NIS sales 51%, which is now not hearing their voice in this assembly. So is 400m euros enough, or is 360m or 315m enough for the Vojvodina budget to bring the dust down to this sale and to violate the Privatisation Act? Madam Minister, please, whenever you can, of course, I don't expect it right now, but in the course of the day, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, you'll explain to us whether every time you find yourself in trouble you'll bring a Lex specialis, whether you'll break the law every time you break the Constitution. Madam Minister, I'd like you to go out for a pay phone so you can say that, not to me, to throw it out of place, I've never thrown it to you before.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11603	Mr. Maras, the minister only said one comment, so there was no throwing. She tried to explain what you were interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11604	Mrs. Djukic, I'm glad you're reacting promptly, so some would like to say, but Madam Minister has already turned my attention or tried to explain it to me for the second or third time, but I think that's how she tried to defocus me. The bottom line of the question is whether, Madam Minister, you'll answer whether or not you'll be breaking the law in the future, what happens in a month, two, three, when we realize that revenue in the budget won't be able to be properly filled out, will we ever, when we go to budget rebalance, break the law again? The point of the whole question is that this amendment, which Mr Radovanovic submitted meaningfully, regardless of whether you put in the Constitution a percentage that should belong to Vojvodina, I don't see why it can't be in Article 4 that there is a sum to belong to Vojvodina. It could be attitude 5 you're calling for to break the law. I'm sure this isn't your handiwork or your intention, but you're taking responsibility because you're the finance minister. I am interested in what will happen on the day when the Constitutional Court is working in accordance with the law and in accordance with its powers and when it takes into consideration, and that Mr Vlatkovic will soon tell us when the Legislative Committee will be appointed, what will happen when the Constitutional Court says that this agreement, or this law which has ratified the agreement with the Russian Federation on the sale of NIS, is not in accordance with the Constitution, then what kind of hole will be in the Vojvodina budget? Please at least answer some questions, they're really not malicious. For several days and hours, I've been trying to get some answers, but unfortunately we haven't come within these few months to some answers, or to some reasonable explanation of what all this is about. As finance minister and as a person who has taken responsibility for a difficult job, you must also have answers to questions about why the law is being violated, which is why, especially from one member, why has no modus been found, why has no legal framework on the basis of which the Constitution can be respected, but must be violated by a member of a law? You will see on the basis of the next amendments that come as much as it has caused a revolution with MPs who are not from Vojvodina. I think it would be extremely irresponsible, I wish you could do everything in your power and make this kind of thing right, that these things don't repeat themselves anymore, but it's a really bad example if two prime ministers, circuit and republican, agreed during dinner to break the Privatization Act, is a bad example for all citizens, and I think it's going to get the most of you. You're the most responsible for that. Therefore, I ask you that if you have not already been able to prevent NIS from being sold for 350m euros 51%, at least try to respect the Constitution, to respect the laws, all that is in your power. Don't let someone who, as we've heard from the Deputy Prime Minister outside the government, conduct a violation of the laws like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11605	Thank you, Mr. Marash. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. Let me just remind you of a deal we already had, or let you know that we will be working in accordance with article 85 after 1800 hours today, and not longer than 2200 hours, so we agreed. We agreed on both today and tomorrow and 29th. On the 29th, a regular session ends, and on December 30th, we will agree on December 29th.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11606	The government did the right thing when it did not accept this amendment, and it could not have done otherwise, because under the Serbian Constitution, Article 183, provinces have independence in budgeting. This draft budget plans a significant reduction in resources for social contributions, maternity, child allowances, agriculture. For social contributions alone, a 50% reduction was proposed compared to this year, with the reason that there is no money. I think the money's enough, but it's not distributed properly. In the time I have left, I will try to point to some items in revenue and expenditure, as an example of a poor redistribution of money. I'll start with the customs revenue. In 2008, customs revenues amounted to 70 billion 227 thousand dinars. The draft budget envisions that the revenues amount to 50 billion 800 million. It's a reduction of 20 billion dinars, about 28%. In this year 2008, customs budgets filled by 11.1%). It was planned to fall to 7.3% in 2009. The explanation is that the reduction of the customs revenues foreseen is due to the government's decision to unilaterally apply the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, through the reduction of customs duties on imports of industrial goods and agricultural products from EU countries. This is a school example of how one government can do great harm to its own country by an irresponsible decision. As I said, the damage to the budget is 20 billion dinars, while the damage to agriculture and agricultural producers can only be guessed, but it is certain that it will be large and should not rule out the possibility that this decision will end Serbian agriculture. This is before considering the fact that this budget also provides for a significant reduction in subsidies for agriculture. The next item - subsidies for the tourism area. The estimated amount is billions and 980 million. High subsidies to tourism have also existed in the current budgets several years ago. However, the facts suggest that they did not give significant expected results to justify these investments. In the budget rebalance for this year, which was on the agenda a month and a half ago, I found that the number of overnight stays from, I believe, 1 September 2007 to 1 September 2008 is practically the same number of nights as in the previous year. So these funds are insecurely invested. This is particularly important when it comes to the fact that Serbia hosted more events this year, starting with the Eurovision song and more international sports competitions, so it was quite logical and on this basis to increase the number of nights. There are social areas in which it is justified to invest and it is not realistic to expect profit, but it is certainly not tourism. Social benefits to employees this year are 2 billion 685 million, a billion and 322 million are scheduled for next year, meaning a decrease of approximately 51%. Other countries, especially large and orderly countries, are doing the opposite. This morning I read a text in a daily newspaper that the Japanese government several times increased the amount of budget intended for social contributions to employees. Subsidies to private enterprises -- 60 million dinars were allocated for this purpose this year, a billion and 760 million are projected for next year, an increase of an incredible 2.933 per cent. Now the question here is, where does this drastic difference come from? Has the previous government been deaf and blind to this segment of national economy, economy, or is this government being wasteful? More important than that, the answer to the questions that are private companies that will receive these huge funds, who are their owners, and from which are political parties? This is because it is practice in Serbia, and this practice existed before 5 October 2000, that funds from the budget, especially when it comes to subsidies, are primarily shared with their own party personnel. The next item I want to comment on, damages or damages caused by natural disasters or other natural causes. In this year, the amount was 20 million and 1,000 dinars, for 2009, estimated 300 million, an increase of 1,499% or 15 times. And this is where the question comes from, how does it make such a drastic difference? Is the government possibly psychic, so it predicted that Serbia would be hit by an elemental disaster? I don't know if even in that case, the damage in 2009 could be fifteen times larger than the damage in 2008. The government may expect the situation in Serbia to be so difficult that social unrest will occur, so it may plan for these social unrest to choke with violence, so it assumes that the damage done will be 15 times greater than the damage this year. Next item - National Assembly, Professional Service. 2008 - two billion 979 million. 2009 - 962 million. Again one incredibly drastic difference, 70% less. The question arises - whether this leadership will, with its austerity, paralyze the work of the National Assembly and the professional services or what previous leadership has been acting wastefully and unfavorably, spent two billion dinars? An objective question arises where two billion dinars were completed last year for the congregation’s professional services? It was an election, but I think it's still too much. Government Vice-President's Office for European Integration – 67 million. Then we have the European Integration Office with 120 million, a 50% increase compared to last year, and the Foreign Ministry five billion 795 million. Practically, we have three state bodies dealing with the same business as foreign policy. I think it is illogical, especially in the situation in which Serbia is. Now the one question that's being imposed on itself is -- how did these bodies divide jobs or maybe we have three parallel foreign policies? The next cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Foreign Policy and Social Action, where this year's 10 million since this year, as Mr Krkobibic has taken over, is 50 million 731 dinar, i.e. an increase of 488%, which is the best proof that the budget is not created, means, according to the needs of the budget users, but according to the demands of coalition partners. On the one hand, you have social benefits for people and workers who are halved, and on the other hand you have funds for a resolute minister who is fivefold increased. The next is the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal in The Hague, which envisions 47m and 227 dinars. I think this is too much and that for the work of this office enough to single out just one dollar from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so as not to violate the law that provides for mandatory funding, of course, and then close it. Now I'm going to explain why? The law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal and other regulations provides for the co-operation to be mutual. However, we have been witnessing for ten years that co-operation with this illegal, quasi-based institution is one-way. It comes down to the arrest, extradition and sometimes the sale of citizens of Serbia, Republika Srpska Krajina, Republika Srpska's UN tribunal and the delivery to The Hague tribunal and US and NATO intelligence services, which were established by the tribunal and controlled by its work, the most confidential and the security and future of Serbia's extremely important documents from the archives of military services, police services and state authorities. This is all in order to continue to Satanise Serbia and prove the correctness of the thesis -- that Serbia and the Serbian people are to blame for all the wars that took place in the former Yugoslavia's space and for all the war crimes and destruction that took place in those wars. I believe that a considerable part of that responsibility for such a condition is borne by this office. That is why I would leave Mr Ljajic with this one dinar -- to buy a piece of paper, to write a statement, an apology to the Serbian people and Serbia, for all the damage they suffered due to such co-operation with The Hague tribunal. The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office will speak for my amendment. I will also comment on the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, where 267 million 341 thousand are this year, and 366 million and 575 thousand are scheduled for next year. I don't understand why this 37% increase, do I? The only human rights at risk in Serbia - are the human rights of the poor. As far as I can tell, this budget doesn't care enough about them and their human rights. In this regard, I particularly think of those 500,000 Serbian citizens who, according to official statistics, live below the poverty line. When it comes to minority rights, I don't see anyone's minority rights in Serbia at risk. The only collective rights that are at risk - are the rights of the Serb people in the KIM area. Next is the financing of the PIO fund. It is noticeable that police buildings, prosecutors' buildings in Serbia, are growing more and more luxurious -- and the crime rate is increasing. It's the same case with the buildings of the employment offices. In each city one of the most beautiful buildings belongs to the employment office - and the number of unemployed is increasing. It's the same case with the pensioner. The most beautiful buildings in Serbia are PIO buildings - while receiving pensioners are getting smaller, pensioners are becoming more and more difficult to live for. I don't think it's really justified at this point that 376 million are intended for the purchase, maintenance and construction of buildings, and in particular to separate 47 million for the purchase of computer software and licenses. I don't really know what it's supposed to buy, because now it turns out, at the very least, that PIO funds haven't worked before, that they didn't have this equipment. I don't know what means they've been working with so far. That's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11607	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milet Poscurica and Aleksandar Martinovic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Poscurica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11608	Ladies and gentlemen, there is little specific intervention on Article 4. We thought in the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group that it might be best to write that article 5 of Article 4 is deleted, so that we may arrange what the application of this article may potentially bring. The Constitution of the 5th says that it is extremely from article 61. The Privatisation Act, etc., and according to all the changes the law has undergone, five amendments, it decides that 90% of the NIS's privatisation is attributed to the Vojvodina budget. If you look at the next amendment that is the same composition, and others written on this subject, so if you take a look at someone else's area and you see the explanations that the government made on the different amendments to this article, you will see that there are really certain disagreements. In fact, some have tried to change the percentage in their amendments, so that with 85% of Serbia and 85% of Vojvodina and that the rest are distributed either by Serbia or locally by Vojvodina municipalities. This is, of course, rejected by reason - that it is not necessary, because once it is made available to funds in the duchy budget, it will therefore be distributed. An explanation and explanation given by the government for what the Serbian Progressive Party has submitted as an amendment, that, if applied, an expected quota of funds guaranteed by the constitutional seven per cent will not be realised, as guaranteed by the constitution. So, and to deprive the story of every political message, every autonomous, anti-autonomic or otherwise, of protecting the pure constitutional order and the right to obey the laws, remains questioned - as it is, by whose decision and whose will is exceptional from the rules of Article 61. The privatisation law, proposed that the percentage, otherwise integrated, be allocated "at point 2) 50% of the funds to finance restructuring of the development of the economy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If the seat of the privatisation entity is located on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, 50% of the funds will be allocated for those same needs in that territory." Why, who, how and when? What lex specialis unpublished? What is the intention, and what was the goal of reaching a mutual agreement between the two prime ministers? What kind of fire was put out, what message was sent? In the context of information and what we have in the backgrand, the knowledge that campaigns are favored and prescribed in time, must appear to be an autonomous, duchy passport, an uninterrupted effort to show what was done in the Statute of Vojvodina as something that has no elements of constitutional categories. I guess the only thing missing is the military that would already have a sense of complete independence of the AP, all that kind of message, that it would give right to those who wanted to go, in terms of autonomy, to encourage such a feeling, to cultivate the possibility that this idea would eventually come back to life again. We will always oppose such ideas. We think that one such item carries that danger, but what if it were true, since it was paid to another consultant's house to estimate the value of the NIP, estimated, not 2.2 billion, let's say a billion and say a contract concluded with the Russians that the NIS value was a billion, and then it sold 90% of it. As the one who wrote the bill on the budget knew 40 days before the contract with the Russians was concluded that it would just be a 400 figure and me in an explanation, the government said in response, if applied, it would not have realised the expected 7% of the Constitution of the value of Serbia's budget, which we know how programmed it is. Indeed, 7% times the value of the budget, and that's when you take 90% of the 400,000 euros. There were some amongst the games that we don't understand how they happened, they certainly aren't transparent, and they could possibly be a message for some different events and different relationships. You know it's easy to go to the Parliamentary Council of Europe today and say -- maybe our rights are compromised, there's so many of us, we'd like that and we could either do this or that, and if someone there could hardly meet you there. In this vulnerable position where our diplomacy fails to make great impressions and finishes the job that it should do according to Serbia's interests, every concession of that kind, every opening door for a different way of thinking can be potentially dangerous. We don't want to create any financial assumptions that would allow thinking in any other direction. It is a general part of the problem, and of course it is fundamentally - how, where and why someone can say that it exempts such a serious law as the Law on Privatisation and an item that is clearly defined in Article 41(2), which states that what remains after Article 41 b), and there are a number of costs, advertisements, tendering, prospectuses, etc. the costs associated with the privatisation process, as other funds are then allocated by this principle and this time exempt. It is not fair to the rest of the unique Serbian territory, because when you look at the NIS stock company, it is about 1,500 internal units of these pumps, 500 gas stations, etc. It is not only as shown in 2005 that 90% of the shares company's values that were in NIS, the newly-Sadic Southpetrol, have been taken from Serbia, mostly a gas station, compared to 9:1, and that such relationship and such parity continue to be maintained. Why should such a principle be respected? Why would we preserve the postulates that adorned Tito's former centralized economy, in which the regulation, state decisions put something somewhere and it developed. Does this mean that today-to-morrow another firm so powerful in central Serbia should have a ratio of 9:1. The law, which was adopted, should be respected. If this is already decided to go to the revenue side, obviously it is, then so much from the income side, even if it's 90%, as much as it takes, we're going to go to those 7% of the budgeted terms. No matter where the money came from, we need to secure the Duke so much and so much. Why say--be still, we're done, your firm, your money. The message of this kind may be politically unnecessary and unnecessary to transmit again and unnecessarily reactivate such a topic. It doesn't work for a system like ours, as we have constitutionally set up and set up, but it is necessary to secure a financial level of funds, regardless of the source of income. That doesn't necessarily mean that the message can be potentially quite awkward and encouraging for those who think differently. The very purpose of the intervention was to erase that variant, not to prevent the duchy budget from getting 7% of the funds. In an amendment ahead of the government, it explains that it is impossible to predict how much funds it will be. It could be a subroutine, it could be a switch, it can't be seen in the hair. So even here, if for the price of NIS sold to the Russians two three days ago, as we could calculate 90% times 400 40 days ago, that's exactly what 7% of the budget is. There's little transparency in this story, and it's unnecessary to go out with some kind of lex specialists or messages of a particular kind, a political agreement between the two prime ministers. Both authorities, both the AP Vojvodina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should be in a certain position in a fully consistent story and that there are no personal agreements and settlements of certain possible debts, possible misunderstandings, pacifying the situation on the ground. If something settles, parliament is a place to say what is being reconciled by that decision, what is being brought into order, which cannot be said out of turn. That's why we're against interventionism in this law, by violating the provisions of another law, it's the Privatisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11609	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs Dragutinovic, today is December 27th and, by virtue of historical fate, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 4 of the 5th Budget Law refers precisely to the AP Vojvodina. Why do I say December 27th? Historians say, on December 27th, 1860, the Vienna court abolished the autonomy of the Serbian Duchy. The difference is, Mrs Dragutinovic, that Serbs who then fought for the autonomy of the province of Vojvodina and those who today are fighting for the autonomy of Vojvodina have as much connection as Mr Jesus Christ has with the Inquisition. So they have nothing to do with it. Mrs Dragutinovic, I tried to understand the meaning of Article 4th paragraph of the 5th Budget Act 2009. You want the provision of Article 4(5) to be of special nature in relation to Article 61. The privatisation law and you were motivated by the concern of achieving what is written in the Serbian Constitution, which is that the scope of the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that the Serbian Government has not taken sufficient care of the context of the complete article 184. The Constitution of Serbia. Article 184 provides that the AP is to be financed from its original income and the Constitution stipulates that the type and height of the original revenue of the AP will be determined by law, and the law is indeed determined. This is about the Republic of Serbia, as a state, within the scope of the territory of the AP Vojvodina, quite enough. The law lays down the original revenue of the AP Vojvodina, which is part of the income of the Republic of Serbia belongs to the AP Vojvodina, and that is enough, as far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned. You allow the province's administration to ensure that the budget is indeed 7% in relation to the Republic of Serbia's budget with its economic policy and its policy of billing the original revenues of AP Vojvodina. I don't understand why you are now showing excessive concern about whether the AP Vojvodina budget is really going to be 7% or not for 2009. The Republic of Serbia has done its part of the job. Now leave the province administration in Novi Sad to provide its economic policy measures with its part of the job, i.e. to enable the Vojvodina budget to indeed amount to 7% in relation to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't see the point of Article 4(5) at all. Why would 90% of the price achieved by selling NIS belong to the AP Vojvodina. I really don't understand. NIS is a state-owned company. You seem to have succumbed to the impression that the NIS was founded by the AP Vojvodina, which is not true. NIS is a state and public enterprise. I don't understand at all where you get this need to meet any autonomist's whim in Vojvodina, so now you give them 90% of the price obtained by selling NIS. Take care, Mrs Dragutinovic, of the political context in which the Constitution is adopted, i.e. the 2009 budget law. Just two months ago, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, primarily thanks to the DS, adopted the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. The AP Vojvodina statute marks the beginning of Serbia's federalisation. Those who earn yours, they have no idea what it says in the Statute. Theirs voted on party duty. They don't want you well. I really wish you good. I'm trying to explain to you what's wrong and dangerous in the Statute of Vojvodina. You can't hear it from them, because they don't understand. They're voting machines. If they were worth anything, they'd be sitting in the government, in the ministries. They were sent here to push the green button when the day of the vote came. When did you hear something smart say about the pay phone? No, they're getting, they're texting. Don't listen to them. What's dangerous in the Statute of Vojvodina? It's dangerous that the Dukes are given the authority of either the federal unit or the entire sovereign state. Those who tell you it's not written like that, you lie and they don't want you well. It writes, because if Vojvodina has the right to have its own government, if Vojvodina has the right, according to the Statute, to establish diplomatic and consular representations abroad, to conclude international contracts with foreign countries, to ratify them, if Vojvodina is defined not as part of the Republic of Serbia, but, as it is said, a European, democratic region, integrated into the system of European regions. I'm asking you what's different than at least a federal unit, provided we speak to a very loose Federation. It's essentially a sovereign state. It's about trying to restore the Austro-Hungarian monarchy in these areas, north of Sava and Danube. You are concerned about whether the AP Vojvodina budget will indeed be at least 7% compared to the Serbian budget. In Article 184, there is another provision, which you in the Serbian government have completely forgotten. It is true that it says that the Vojvodina budget in its scope should be at least 7% compared to Serbia's budget, but it says something else. It says that three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget are used to finance capital expenditures. Have you ever asked the province administration in Novi Sad, have you asked Bojan Pajtic, does he really spend three weeks of this amount to finance capital expenditure? Do you know, Mrs Dragutinovic, that from 2002 to today, the province administration has become just as massive as the massive state administration of the Republic of Serbia? Do you know how many they hired their relatives, friends, aunts, cousins, etc. to the province administration in Novi Sad? Do you know, when you enter the Executive Greater Vojvodina as far as you see some naked people who, the question is, do they have adequate school equipment, pretend to be some officials, that they're some experts? Do you know how much the Executive Major of Vojvodina spends today when the DS is the primary party in the government of the AP Vojvodina? Have you wondered if they really spend three weeks of budgets on capital expenditure financing or spend on the fact that the Vojvodina budget practically eats itself, or the province's administration uses the Vojvodina budget primarily for its own needs? Do you know how many of them bought expensive cars for the needs of the Vojvodina Executive Council? Every secretary in the Vojvodina Executive Council is driving in cars that cost at least 20, 30, 40,000 euros? Do you know what the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund is for? It serves to assist DS municipal committees in the territory of the AP Vojvodina during the election campaign, to pave the streets and roads in temperatures below zero, in mud, to pave the streets and roads without any tenders. Did you know that all the streets and roads in municipalities and cities, where the DS is in power, are paved by mobsters and tycoons, without any tenders? Did you know that the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund directly transfers funds directly to the labourer? Who in such a situation when there are no papers, any tenders, any competition, who can control how much money has really gone into the asphalting of streets and roads, and how much has gone into the pockets of individuals? There's absolutely no control whatsoever. Why? Because you gave Bojan Pantic and those who run the DS in Vojvodina a completely free hand. You do not interfere in the area north of Sava and Danube. It's his feud. He can do whatever he wants. Have you ever wondered about these things, which are extremely painful for citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? Have you ever wondered, Mrs Dragutinovic, here you are again getting the desire to prevent you from listening to me, and I really want you to do well, but they don't understand it, do the citizens of Vojvodina really live better than the citizens of the rest of Serbia, just because they have a province administration in Novi Sad? At the end of the 19th century, Vasa Pelagic wrote a work of a very instructive term "How much does God and Master cost us?" Have you ever wondered how much this and this province administration in Novi Sad cost us? You're not. It is not because you are leaving from a completely wrong premise, that democratic Serbia is the only one in which Vojvodina has a degree of federal unit, a minority state in the country and that you will not be able to enter the EU unless you make a state independent of Vojvodina. Someone cheated on you, Mrs. Dragutinovic. France is the world's most centralised state, so it is one of the EU's founders. In the territory of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, you have no autonomous province. The sign of equality between extremely broad autonomy and European integration does not stand. Someone, Mrs Dragutinovic, cheated on you. What is the essence of my amendment? The Republic of Serbia has done what its constitutional obligation is, prescribed by the original revenues of the AP Vojvodina. It has determined how much of the Republic of Serbia's income stands out for the AP Vojvodina. She prescribed that the budget volume, the volume of Vojvodina's budget revenues, was 7% compared to Serbia's budget. Your mission, Mrs Dragutinović, is over. Now let some of these who have authority in Vojvodina work a little bit and they're trying to reach that 7% magic figure. Why do you give them 90 percent of the price achieved from the sale of NIS? They won't let citizens living in Vojvodina see any use. Do you know how many unemployed are in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? Do you know how many villages were released in Backo, Banat and Srem because agriculture was destroyed, because there were none of those pre-election promises by Bojan Pajtic, Nenada Chanka, Bojan Kostreš, that when they won, the villagers in Vojvodina would blossom roses. It's not gonna happen. The majority of the population of Vojvodina grouped in several major cities. The other parts of the Duke are empty, let them go. There is no improvement for the people of Vojvodina, although it enjoys the status of an autonomous province, even though those who now exercise power in Vojvodina want to make Vojvodina an independent state. Take care, Mrs Dragutinović, of that. Don't be blind with healthy eyes. Do not be deceived, that there is no European Serbia if not things the independent state of Vojvodina, lie to you, do not allow it. At the beginning of my presentation, I deliberately pulled a parallel between those Serbs who fought in the 19th century for the autonomy of the Vojvodina and those who are now representing themselves as so-called "Vojvodina". Duchy autonomies. In the 19th century for the autonomy of Vojvodina, Mrs Dragutinovic, the best, greatest Serbs fought. People who are not ashamed to say that Serbs, Patriarch Rajačić, Svetozar Miletic, Jasa Tomic, etc. What happened later? When was a single Serbian state to be created in 1918, what did Jasa Tomic say? The idea of Vojvodina's autonomy should be dismissed as an Austrian starter. Why do we need an autonomous Vojvodina in our own Serbian state? But you forgot it. Those who present themselves today as autonomists are children of communist officials. What does Bosko Krunic, Zivan Berisavljevic have to do with Patriarch Rajačić or Svetozar Miletic? Nothing. So take care, Mrs Dragutinović, of that. Don't grow a snake with this money in your own troubles. Those who now run the autonomous province of Vojvodina are snakes (President: Time. Because they're trying to separate Vojvodina from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11611	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is for Mr. Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11612	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Dragutinovic, indeed, is now opening a question within this Article 4, which will most certainly be the subject of a debate in front of the National Assembly very soon, which is the issue of the Statutes of the AP Vojvodina and the laws that define the powers that the AP Vojvodina will have, and certainly, according to us, a deeply unconstitutional act adopted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, there will be a lot of words here. Surely, the topic of the Vojvodina, the way its bodies are functioned from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is something that we will be dealing with here, and it is a topic that deserves the attention of the National Assembly and, within this Article 4, it is certainly necessary to say more about it. In fact, this is about the fact that the agreement, the fact that the NIS sales contract, has reached some of the resources necessary for this revenue side of the budget to be realised and the positions of these funds have clearly been identified. The Democratic Party of Serbia stands at the stand, and it has repeatedly said that the contract concluded with the Russian Federation, a gas-naphtha agreement so-called a state contract between the two countries is good for Serbia. It is a strategic agreement that allows Serbia to realise all its potential in the coming period and to the greatest extent possible economic progress that we all expect together. But what is the problem with this Article 4? We have repeatedly pointed out through discussions in the National Assembly that another aspect of the government's policy, which the government has declared in its programme, is a ministry that calls it the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, especially that part relating to regional development, to the greatest extent possible, has been neglected. The amendment I submitted was the first in a series submitted by DSS MPs, just pointing to the fact that part of the funds achieved by the sale of NIS must be directly directed at all local self-government in Serbia. In Vojvodina, that's a special problem. My esteemed colleague Martinovic said something about a large number of objections we hear in Vojvodina, when it comes to the way projects that go through the Capital Investment Fund are implemented, it refers to its non-transparency. We are in a position to ask the question to which extent certain municipalities have received certain funds and whether they were very clear criteria for the implementation of these projects that were in large numbers of municipalities. It is this amendment that we want to say that it is necessary, including in the area of the AP Vojvodina, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a special programme to deal with the realisation of these funds in municipalities, and in Vojvodina, of course, in Serbia. In particular, in my amendment, these 5% of NIS sales funds concern municipalities in five districts in Vojvodina, in particular, cities and municipalities in the West-Bačka County, South-Bačka County, Sremski, South-Banatski and Central Banat County, i.e. The town of Novi Sad, the municipalities of Bac, Bačka Palanka, Vrbas, Becej, Srbobran, Baki Petrovac, Beocin, Title, Žablj, Sremski Karlovci, Temerin, town of Sombor, Odžaci, Kula, Apatin, the town of Sremska Mitrovica and the municipalities of Indjija, Šid, Stara Pazova, Pećinci, Irig, Ruma, the town of Pančevo and the municipalities of Aliburnar, Kovin, Vršac, Bela Church, Plandište, Opovo, Kovačica and the town of Zrenjanin and the municipality of Zitiste, Sečanj, Novi Becej and Nova Crnja. So it is necessary to define clear criteria, especially through the government of the Republic of Serbia's programme, in order to make a part of these funds, in particular 5%, which is around 20m euros, aimed at these municipalities. I would like to point out here that the president of our parliamentary group, Mr. Milan Aligrudic, has submitted, too, one amendment to Article 4, and I believe that the acceptance of this amendment to the greatest extent possible could be realised. The fact that, in the framework of the Capital Investment Fund, which is based on the Constitution in Vojvodina and the part relating to at least 7% of the funds given for Vojvodina, then the 3/7 amount directed for capital and infrastructure assets, in fact, went to the Capital Investment Fund the most. It is necessary that the largest number of municipalities, specifically here, I am talking about the municipalities of Vojvodina, through clear and precise criteria, get some of the funds that have been realised, which have been achieved on the basis of the sale of NIS. What exactly is one of the points, shall I say, of this amendment? We need to talk about decentralisation, even in Vojvodina. So, the citizens of Vojvodina should both through these funds and through autonomy itself, especially through these funds that are allocated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, specifically municipalities and cities in Vojvodina, feel a concrete benefit, i.e. We don't want the story of autonomy turned into a new sedation in the province. That's where most of the troubles come from the citizens of Vojvodina. These funds are being pooled into the province administration, they are not clear criteria until the end and there are objections to the non-transparency of the realisation of the funds, and it would be good to clearly and concretely state how much the municipality of these funds in Vojvodina belongs. This is what can contribute in the most direct way to local and economic development, which we all have to take care of and which is least taken into account when it comes to the functioning of the government, even when it comes to the functioning of a series of ministries in the government. In local self-government, the ministry gets the most involved when there are disputes in the functioning of local self-government, but the strategic approach to the development of certain local self-governments, especially in the local part of economic development, the resolution of infrastructure problems, a large number of municipalities, including in Vojvodina, has no road infrastructure, no water supply solutions, telecommunications infrastructure. There are a number of problems when it comes to institutions in the field of health and education. They get rid of each other, but not quickly and qualitatively enough for citizens to be satisfied. So, through these means, you can achieve that goal that, more or less, all political parties in the National Assembly have declared. Decentralisation -- so that, with municipalities, steam cities for concrete projects, for the realisation of concrete problems, citizens live better in these municipalities. I am convinced that the quality of government and the quality of people who manage municipalities is at that level that they can make good use of these funds through projects and through their strategies and visions of the development of the municipality. In this regard, the amendments submitted by the DSS parliamentary group to channel through messages of decentralisation needs, messages for equal regional development, addressing local economic problems, addressing infrastructure problems, and channelling the funds achieved by the sale of NIS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11613	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11614	I'm just about to say I'm reporting from Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I just got a call from a group of citizens from Batajnica. It's about people living on 23rd Street. New, on the 706 bus turn. These people built their houses. It's ten families. They did an electrical network, with the consent of someone from Elektro-distribution. That someone in Electrodistribution Zemun got fired for some reason. It doesn't matter much to the problem these people have. Anyway, they're now in charge of some court dispute with Electrodistribution, there's no decision, let alone a judicial decision. This morning, the workers of Elektro-distribution came in, and they cut off the power for those families. There's old people out there, little kids in those families. I pray and submit their request that we appeal to Electrodistribution to join these people with electricity. This is the winter period, this is the time before the holidays, and there's no reason for these people to suffer because there was some problem in Electrodistribution, especially since the network, which they themselves funded, so, with the consent of Elektrodistribution, worked the same firm that worked the network for almost the entire Batajnica, at least for that new part of Batajnica. I would like to ask our appeal to be addressed to Earth Power, to join these people with electricity, and I ask you, Madam President, that, in accordance with Article 226, ask Elektrodistribution Zemun to know what is at all controversial when it comes to these ten families and their connection to electricity. But since the matter is urgent, I don't think we should wait until we get that answer, but together we should appeal to these families, I repeat, because of the little children, the elderly and the sick, because winter, due to the coming holidays, is connected to electricity, and when the court dispute is over, of course, they will behave according to the court's decision. Whoever is right or has an obligation to pay for something else, and I repeat, they paid for those connections, according to what I understand, some very incredible situation, but people in big trouble asked me to bring it to the public and to parliament. Once again, I repeat our appeal and ask you to be informed of what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11615	You will be informed and I will urge that we get an answer as soon as possible, and I would like to join your appeal that these families are not deprived of electricity during these holidays and that, of course, the court ruling is respected, if the court dispute is under way. According to the amendment, Mr. Zoran Krasic answered. Of course you can, in accordance with the Constitution, and you should behave. You have a delusion about my relationship to the Constitution, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11616	Is it a delusion or a ban? (President: Deception. I'm deluded, not a cashier. The treasurer's not mistaken, she takes off the money, so you took the shoes for my kids' new year, and my daughter and my son, but I'll sort it out another way. Dear citizens, this is a member of Serbia's budget law requiring the DS temporary funding for the first few months of 2009. The citizens know that, but the DS have memory problems, it has to happen more than once, because it's hard to get into their heads, but it's fast in their pockets. In this article, or to be more specific, you're the one who took the 5th position. You have shown us exactly what problems you have in the coalition and, if I may say so, in the duchy part of supporting the Boris Tadic coalition. There's a fracture and a struggle against the construction mafia, there's a break in the struggle within the DS -- whether Pajtic will become a duke. I'd like to inform you in advance that tomorrow, when you meet me, you don't say what I didn't say in time. I'll keep you apprised. Why? Because Bojan Pajtic has been acting as a duke for several years. And Canak starts making some problems, he gives him 5-6,000 euros and says, "Be still." And someone else starts to cause problems, he dumps him with something small, and then he starts with his capital investments in municipalities where he's not in the power of the DS and so practically cheats on the citizens of Vojvodina, as something allegedly just didn't bloom, unless they're part of the Republic of Serbia, but part of the European democratic process, some new region that's long, many centuries ago been conceived in the walls of the Vatican. But you'll learn that lesson next time. Buy one of the editions of the SRS, I think in book number 69 - you can buy freely, learn some things, because there are copies from books and works of scientists who have studied the Vatican and their influence on the territory of the Balkans. Don't throw away the books. That's how you act like the ones who lit the books at the stake. To remind you, this is Adolf Hitler, and to remind you, this is now being done by The Hague tribunal, because it is currently conducting proceedings against Vojislav Seselj over four books, and the books contain submissions. Just to see how the opposition of the SRS goes. I forgot another history book to give you, but I don't want to give it to you, but go to the bookshop "Nikola Pasic" and buy the book "About the Fight for Parliamentaryism in Serbia", which costs a hundred dinars, it's not expensive, you can buy it. You can learn many things and see how history repeats itself as a farce. So let's see what the problem is with Article 4. The problem is that this Article 4 is not in agreement with the relevant provision of the highest legal act, which is Article 184 of which Mr Aleksandar Martinovic explained very nicely. So the type and framework for these revenues can be prescribed by law, but it's not the budget law. I have to tell you that it's some law, a material regulation, not this legal-technical, because the budget, in its essence, is a technical regulation. He needs very little to have material and legal provisions. Once the budget had only two or three members who were materially-legal, this second was a legal-technical character or, to be more precise, mathematical character, to sublime everything that exists in the law of the state to citizens, legal persons to citizens, etc. But ever since democracy came into play, someone thinks they can put anything and everything on the tarab and that's how our regulations are written. What's the problem with Article 5? The problem with Article 5 is that the Ministry of Finance shows that it does not know what the properties of the money are as means of payment. Money, as a means of payment, is a measure of some value and, therefore, it has its generic character. You're here accessing money as individual goods, so you say 90% of NIS sales are going to an autonomous province. So that means you have to build an apoenical structure when the Russians pay, so you say, these are the bills that are going to Paytić. So it turns out in the free interpretation of what you wrote. And 10% of that mass with the apoenic structure, with these bills, goes to the Republic of Serbia. Of course not. If it comes to that payment, it will be a jury and all will be the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Do you give a 10 dinar bill or 100 dinars from the budget, that absolutely doesn't matter. You've had to satisfy your appetites and turn down these slightly more euphoric autonomists by telling them: you see, we're benefiting from the sale of NIS. Since those in Vojvodina who deal with politics have a system of greed -- grab, better 90% of us take, to put an end to the robbery, according to Canak. He cheats on us that the people of Vojvodina enjoy being robbed by Novi Sad and no longer robbed by Belgrade. It's the message of Nenad Chanka, the most rude thing you can hear in politics. Because of him and the DS that accepts all of this or stands at the head of all of this, the concession has failed, the oil-gas arrangement is at stake, the sale of NIS, and everything will be questioned as moving as an initiative from Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, Pristina, from the point of view of the people of Novi Sad, who have received the exclusive right to represent the people of Vojvodina here. They're misrepresenting you, the citizens of Vojvodina, so you know. Here, for eight years, I haven't seen a pitch between the government and the opposition, and they're both from the Duke's territory. Shut up. You know what it is, you know what the cover is. You do not have the right to start a member or a member's position in the law of the Republic of Serbia's budget with a sentence: exclusively from that and that member of a material regulation. The budget can't change the material regulations. The budget only accepts the material regulations and obligations imposed by some other law in the form of a monetary, numerical term behind which not only a commitment lies, but also a policy that is ruling in Serbia. You're saying, "Extremely from the Privatisation Act, we're going to split it like this." You can't. It can't be budget law. It's not a legal act you can do that to. What's the DS worried about? Patch the hole, then push on. With that logic, "steal the hole, then push away" from Serbia, you made one big tractor inner tire that has 150 patches and only waits for the moment where another one will crack, to open the hole, and it all explodes. That's what our DS gave us. Although you haven't burned a congregation in a long time, take care of it. That's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know. It should be known, among other things, that the bill on the budget is forty-one days late and that the press is being held against the SRS MPs to give up their amendments, or to give up the right to criticise the incompetent and dangerous government of the Republic of Serbia. You've got most of it, you'll vote it all. Supposedly, if it isn't done in two days, development projects have been hitched, pensioner status is at stake, we won't be able to borrow, we won't be able to broadcast securities of value, so that in this way we can provide money, life will stop in Serbia. That's not true. It's another one of these manipulations, and you know for a fact that from January 15th, they're likely to start serious preparations for the 2009 budget rebalance. We hold these amendments to ensure that citizens of the Republic of Serbia understand before New Year's holidays that they experienced a disaster from Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic, regardless of the aggregate state, Prime Minister or Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic and all the "zumbula" who are helping, allegedly criticising the government of Boris Tadic. Know, they are the culprits, not the SRS, who persistently stamped, condemn and appeal to the citizens to see, so that when some elections take place in 2009, they will round up the number in front of some of these parties and vote against themselves, their children and their grandchildren. Of course we're bothering them with a story like this, and that story has to stop for the next two, possibly three days, because it's dangerous. It is dangerous because none of the promises are fulfilled not only, but there is not even an elemental will to move towards fulfilling such promises or to fulfilling the legal obligations, an even worse thing. It's just a legal obligation with the pensioner. Not to talk about other social groups. These columnists don't even think about legal obligations. "Keep the water while the masters go," come on, "Blic," come on, "Pres", come on, a little B92, come on, depending on who's the editor of RTS and the columnists are moving. Now it has become a profession: a folk MP, a columnist. More in columns than in the National Assembly. In the congregation, they're mostly quiet, they have nothing to say, and when they go with columns, God save me. So, 360m euros belongs to the AP Vojvodina, according to what you wrote in Article 4(5). Please, it counts as an internal payment, you have to express it in dinars. Serbia gets 40. As far as I know, NIS is, and Jugopetrol, it seems to me, gas stations exist in Pirot too, not only in Backo Topoli. Where did this exclusiveity come from just for Vojvodina? What's so significant? We say here: Serbia from three parts will be whole, we are all fighting for a single Serbia. A little, little, so the autonomists say, we're part of Serbia, we want this, but when we get to the field of concrete, autonomy, separatism and the worst. We're not gonna let you share that money that needs to come for the sale of NIS. This must be the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that money should be used both for social protection and for children's protection both for the roads and for the railways and in Piroth, Vranja, Kragujevac, Loznica, Subotica, Kikindi. However, this argument of yours has brought fruit, for it has enabled us to learn some things. A few days ago, one of the officials, possibly the Cankova party, was a guest on one television and told DS representative: "I hope not only the mayor of Zrenjana's man who is a real example of the construction mafia, I guess the construction mafia exists in Belgrade and Novi Sad." He told the big truth. I mean, he as a longtime coalition partner, he knows DS best. I don't know them. With them, I could only be in the coalition when the SRS decides to enter, so they steal and we arrest them and immediately solve the crime problem in Serbia. Such a coalition is impossible. That gentleman from that Chank party rightly asked a question. If we take all the calculations, Zrenjanin is incomparably smaller than Belgrade and Novi Sad. He was also a major DS official in Zrenjanin, but much larger DS officials are in Belgrade and Novi Sad. In Belgrade and Novi Sad, much more is being built than in Zrenjanin. If he was the leader of that construction mob there, then you can imagine what happened to that Bogdanovic or now Gilas or that Zoran before that... (President: Time. Do you want to give this lady a word, she resents not giving her a word? He keeps throwing. Let him talk once. I don't mind when he throws, I like it. (President: Please, you want to bring an end, Mr Krasic, it is time for your participation in the debate under this amendment. I know, but let her know, obviously DS has banned her from talking. Give her your word, I appeal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11617	Don't worry, when she gets back, she'll get a word. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11618	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected to the public of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is completely collapsed because of the DS. The chairman of the Executive Board of DS Marko Djurisic cursed Mr Krasic's mother two minutes ago. That, as vice president of the National Assembly, I won't tolerate it, not even the SRS. Mr. Djurisic, the other day, you left the O.R. when I publicly warned you that you were not acting so aggressively. We were 23 when you were sitting 176 here after October 5th. We've heard all kinds of insults. We've been chicanted, you've tried to put us here in front of the shooting wall. Mr Krasic has been visited by Serbian parliamentarianism. Mr. Krasic is the man who did everything from the position he had in the SRS as its member and now vice president to spread the ideology for which we are fighting. We were sent here by citizens, Mr Krasic in his manner, giving facts and arguments, in his recognizable rhetorical style, doing everything he can to represent in the best possible way the SRS, and Professor Vojislav Seselj, whose head is the team for his very successful defence. Therefore, I will ask you first, and because of the fact that Mr Krasic's mother, like some others, is not among the living, that you do not behave in this way. You're a young man, you're the man Boris Tadic and DS count on. It's a poor DS if you represent it and you run one of the bodies named the Executive Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11619	The word is Mr. Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11620	Replica. Madam President, we, as well as the citizens of Serbia, have been forced for days to listen to a discussion that seems to me to have no excessive purpose. I thank my colleagues who are willing to make various kinds of insults here. As an MP, I am prepared to endure any kind of political criticism, sometimes I can interpret it as an insult. I don't have a problem with that. Please, Mr. Krasic, and please, the other MPs, come to us alive, show us the minimum of human dignity. Don't mention people who are no longer alive, and we're saying that our political thinking and our politically different ideas and ideologies that we have to discuss here. Spare those people, and then you won't have that reaction you had from the MPs of the DS and myself personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11621	Mrs. Radeta according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mrs. Pop-Lazic, then Mr. Krasic or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's obvious that a member of 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is not the first time Mr. Djurisic reacted as he reacted earlier. We've heard him from the bench many times. Yesterday I heard an MP from the DS who's in front of his colleague here, but in the most serious tone, no joke, says, the more you contact that Krasic, knock him down. So, you're the only one yelling - in, and you know what the point is. The bottom line is, we've been working nice on the amendments all day, but Marko Djurisic has a problem, afraid not to accidentally cross all the amendments, so there's no vote. That is why it challenges what he has caused us, of course, as worthy people, to respond to his impudence, to his insolence, to spend some time, to say, again, the SRS MPs are calling on the Rules of Procedure, acting on the Rules of Procedure, etc. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think it's almost incredible that you, and if you don't, Mr. Deputy Secretary sitting next to you hasn't heard the curse said by Marko Djurisic. It's just amazing to me. And then if he did, he didn't draw your attention to it and you didn't react. After all, Mr. Djurisic himself said that his colleague Krasic should not speak to avoid causing the reaction he caused. At least what we expect from you and all of us is to at least give a warning to Mr Đurišić, who is here, even with his looks, endangering the dignity of the National Assembly, because showing up in jeans, dressed like he looks today, bitching messages all the time as he sits in parliament, he doesn't really care what's going on. I guess he's got a job because of this function he's doing in his party, so he's got to sit there somehow. For that reason, he doesn't care about anything, and then he reacts, so it's probably his home education. We can't influence that. To the dignity of the National Assembly and we can and will. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we really expect your serious reaction, because everything that counterpart Djurisic just said from this place, whether someone's discussion is meaningful or not, whether we're wasting time or not, it's really our thing, not his. If he can't listen to us, there's a tooth nose right now, if he can't listen to us (President: Time. He can get out of the O.R. nicely. This kind of insult, I apologize for the weather, we won't tolerate it, be safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11623	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. I'd like to ask you to go back to the agenda and work harder on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11624	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we've been in this assembly and in previous conferences, MPs of the DS have not spoken a word of insult to any MP from this House or from the Hall. We have suffered unprecedented insults, attacks, carrying out lies, debauchery of people, the introduction of an atmosphere that doesn't exist in any single parliament, and we have sat and suffered, believing that you are talking about yourself and not us. We'll do it in the future, but allow me, please, that people can resent that you insult people who can't defend themselves anymore. That's what's not allowed and let there still be a limit to human tolerance in which it has to react, even if it's going to be disdainful because of the way you talk about people who can't defend themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11625	Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, at the same time they answered for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11626	Madam Chairman, if you have reached any agreement on who has the advantage of reporting to the Rules of Procedure, please respect that. You couldn't give Mrs. Nadia Kolundji a word before I did, because I answered the word before her. When Mr. Todorovic is not in the O.R., Mrs. Nada Kolundžija and I are in exactly the same position. (President: Excuse me, please. ) Please keep that in mind in the future. I apologize to my colleague Natasa Jovanovic, I insisted that I go out for the pay phone before her just to distract you, I'm not used to it from you, but you obviously forgot who's in the position in this room. The least I expected, after this unkind event that happened in parliament, to hear such a swearing language, one such street language, is that this same messenger would come out for this pay phone and apologize, to say, I don't know what was wrong with me, to find some excuse. He didn't do it, we didn't expect to, to tell you the truth, because we know each other very well here. Mrs. Kolundjia, don't replace the thesis, then you, as head of this same parliamentary group and someone responsible for the work of each of these MPs, should have come out for this pay phone and say, "I apologize to the high house for hearing such a curse here." You didn't consider it appropriate either, but you tried to replace the thesis, so even with a tone that is offensive, believe me, your tone is offensive to parliament, you spoke to the SRS parliamentary group, criticising the SRS, you don't even know why. I believe you're all nervous, but believe me, you have no reason to be nervous, you have a stable majority, you have a first reserve, you have a second reserve, you'll vote that budget, let the debate over these amendments be over. It may make you nervous that one of the MPs of the SRS is using his time, using him because he thinks he needs to tell the citizens what this most important law, which we are passing this year, is going to bring to the citizens. What can they expect? You said -- it's very important to bring that budget. So, come on, here's what we're doing to get that budget and you're showing some anxiety, you're cursing, now we're just waiting for when you're gonna start by the throat to catch us. We've been through a lot here, you've been strangling us, and you've been out there, there's both pre-infarct states, and broken arms, and broken legs from 2000 to 2003. We haven't forgotten that, but you couldn't feel the hatred in us ever, and none of you got as much swearing as we got now, nor did any of us speak the way you speak. One's criticism, one's insinuation, one's conjecture, one's a statement of facts you may not like, and the other's a street language, the other's a curse. Please, for your own sake, come out and say, "I apologize to all the MPs for the MPs of the DS." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11627	Mr. Todorovic has not announced his absence, and I am really experiencing him at this point as a man who just went out at the moment, so we have an agreement that the heads of Parliament... (Gordana Pop-Lazic, from the post: I replace Mr. Torovic when he is not in the O.R. ). You know what, it's really not until now when he doesn't report he won't be here. All right, you're replacing him when he's not in the O.R. Miss Jovanovic, please. I really ask you to bring the dialogues to an end, to work on the draft budget law. I don't think it's right to exchange work for re-replication, use and abuse of the Rules of Procedure and the blocking of Parliament's work. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11628	Madam President, you and I have known each other for a long time, and in political life and in private I know that first of all you are one lady, a woman of extremely fine manners, a scientist, a mother and a woman who takes care of every man's dignity, and in this way you try to help people who address you for help. That's how our fellow citizens know you, so could the representatives of all parties here in the Serbian Parliament. Now I'm telling you, without the intention of giving you any compliments, that someone doesn't realize that I'm doing it for some local patriotic reasons... Ma'am, what do you want? You're not ashamed? Of course, you're not ashamed, because it's funny for you to answer for a word, because the man who was, after all, blowing the wind in your back when you did all the stupid things you did, when you left the SRS and threw the membership book on the day Dr. Vojislav Seselj was sent out of 100,000 people, went to the Hague box, it's funny to you that Zoran Krasic, one of the founders of the party and the man who always had, until you went openly into betrayal, the words of praise for you, the cursed mother here. Mrs. Kolundzija, or Hope, however I call you, I've known you for almost ten years, this can only be solved in one way: to tell your younger colleague, Mark Đurišic, to come out and apologize to Zoran Krasic, with your authority in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11629	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11630	The fact is that in the most severe way possible damage to the dignity of the National Assembly, the fact is that the congregation majority does not want to react properly when it comes to it. For a similar, perhaps even minor insult, although it is difficult to rank it, when we worked one evening longer than the end of working hours, Mrs. Komic, not to say she asked, because she almost ordered Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic to come out, to apologize to his colleagues from the DSS, because similar insults rained down at the end of the hall and, of course, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic did so and the session was further continued in normal course. I don't know why you don't want to do it this time, because this isn't the first time. It's not the first time we've heard such insults from Mr. Mark Djurisic, to hear curses. I told you earlier from the scene, whenever he's in the O.R., I don't know why a young man is so nervous, he talks to the MPs of the SRS who speak from this place. We do not insult you, Mrs. Nado Kolundji, or any of you. We're taking our political views here, we're giving our judgment here, and we don't mind you saying the same thing about us, and you're doing it, don't say you're not. And you're talking about a party whose president, you even have the habit of saying The Hague convict, or the defendant, and we don't act that way, we react as serious, conscious and safe politicians. We don't mind Mr. Djurisic coming out every time after Mr. Krasic says that Mr. Krasic, if he hurt the Rules of Procedure, that he hurt him in that way and that way, to say that he disagrees with what Mr. Krasic said, that he thinks so and so, but he obviously doesn't think, he can't think, because I only know him by cursing from the bench. That's your internal party problem again. It is an insult, cursing is an insult. What I said was my judgment about him and it's no insult, from this place it's no insult. This Mr. Dragisa, who defected, what you bought in the last meeting, so he couldn't be an MP because then there was this whole mess about it from the DS, he's the one who's also making every one of our MPs feel like he's talking from this place, he's the one who asked Zoran Krasic to hit someone, to knock him out. Get out here and tell me what you have to say, don't show any anxiety. If you want to continue the budget debate, apologize to Mr. Krasic, so we can work as serious people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11631	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I haven't really heard any swearing. Please continue your work. Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11632	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, if you listened carefully to what Mr. Marko Djurisic said, you could hear that he confessed to cursing Mother Zoran Krasic and even told him that it would happen again if Zoran Krasic did not speak the way DS wants it to. Who knows what time today, Mrs. Kolundjia, is mentioned not to mention the dead. I can understand that, but since 2000 you have done nothing but condemn and accuse the late Slobodan Milosevic of all the evils of this world. If that doesn't hurt, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, those from the DS, who are obviously nothing sacred, I guess from the SPS, that late Slobodan Milosevic means something to you. You're a doctor. Have you forgotten that on Vidovdan 2001, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, they delivered it to The Hague? Did you forget, as a doctor, that in March 2006, he was killed in The Hague because he was not adequately treated by a sick man? If you are Christians, gentlemen of the DS, where does it say that Zoran Djindjic's life is worth more than the life of Slobodan Milosevic? I understand you're bothered by the SRS as an opposition party. You have a sufficient number of votes, vote to abolish parliament, work without parliament, work without law, you are used to it anyway, but take care of it -- if you forcefully silence the MPs of the SRS, the people will speak. Parliament can be abolished, the people can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11633	Mr. Momchilov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11634	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable President, I fully understand your desire to calm the situation and move on to normal work as soon as possible. I can understand even the impulse of a young colleague who's been kidnapped by a curse, it's human in some way, but I can't agree with you that we still have to go over it like nothing happened, for two reasons. The first reason, no doubt, is that this is how the violation of our Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, was done and that an insult was done to one MP. On the other hand, I have far more important and serious reasons to defend my young counterpart Djurisic. He said that we have been harassing the parliamentary group here for days and that we should take part in the debate, that he is inclined to participate in this debate, but who forbids you to oppose our views? We're going out, we're talking here, you keep your mouth shut. You don't go into a political duel at all, and then you resent us for acting politically. That's the problem. Interestingly, to return a few days earlier, we had a Security Committee, a young colleague resented President Todorovic for calling the board and the real circus. Look, there's a circus when it's put on the subject of a security debate when the Ministry of Defense doesn't work and the military part doesn't work. If you're looking at Chief Ponos and our minister, you know what this is about. Such a qualification, what does that mean, gentlemen from a position? What do you want? You want us to keep quiet? Come on, come out with your arguments and take our arguments. It's a political struggle. Don't ask us to keep quiet. We can't keep our mouths shut for many reasons. Madam Chairman, Mrs Comic has the habit of often transferring dialogues from this side to audiences of the Assembly. What do you think, you didn't hear it now, I honestly believe you, but honestly you believe that such a thing was done, that it was transmitted? You can't get over this, because then everything is allowed, then we don't have a parliament here anymore, we have a circus here, anarchy, and then we have an end to parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11635	National MP Suleiman Spaho has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you continue to report to the Rules of Procedure, I understand the tendency to seek the condemnation of everything you consider inappropriate, you put it as an attitude, the atmosphere is what it is, I'll take a break, and we'll continue the work. I'm really asking you to go back to the agenda, or budget. You know how important it is to discuss the budget with certain time dynamics. I really think this is playing with Serbian citizens and all the programmes that the Serbian government and we all have to do with realising a better quality of life for citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11636	Madam President, if you'd just come out and somehow apologize to my distinguished colleague Krasic, I'd get out of here right now. All the time you've been chairing Mrs. Gordana, any of the Serbian radicals to throw something away, you notice that. Now none of you have noticed what it is, I won't even mention his name because he doesn't deserve to be mentioned after his name, he told Mr. Krasic so to speak. Yes, Mr. Krasic is sharp in language, criticizing and speaking, but as soon as he leaves, he is most likely a friend with you. He didn't deserve it from a political fraud like this. What would happen, Madam President, if I said so? What would you do? Doesn't mean if I go there, I won't say that when he gets out. What would you say? You'd warn me, give me a warning, or maybe they'd kick me out of here. Come out, how brave you are to say it, come out and confess what you said. There's time, we'll talk about it, whether it's here or over coffee, so it'll be hard for you when someone tells you something like you said. But you have no face, you're DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11637	It's just Mrs. Kolundjia, and then we're back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11638	I'm reporting under Article 101. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have often been a victim of manipulation from this pay phone, so they called me for things I never did or said. As I know, on the Security Committee, the word "circus" was used because one legitimate member of the People's Parliament, a member of the Committee, was not given a word, although it was a MP, not because of a debate that was conducted and a topic that was on the agenda, please simply do not abuse this speaker. Please, if we were to pass on, if we were to use what you're doing and go out for a pay phone every time you gave us an insult through the bench, we wouldn't do anything else, but bring it out here - what you're saying through these benches. I really ask that you do not insult the parliamentary group, or individuals, or the citizens who voted for us and authorized us to do the job we are here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11639	I'm setting a break of ten minutes. [[After break – 17.25]] Is Mr. Nikola Lazic in the O.R.? You know what, if we're going to do business, there's going to be a break. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: We will according to the Rules of Procedure all the time until you condemn and until he apologizes. Krasic's reputation and honor can't be muddy here. This is the vice president of our party. That's your right. If we're not in the program by chance, the delayed transmission is on its way. You know there are some sports events on Saturdays and Sundays, but it'll all be transferred after the end. Mr. Djurisic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11641	Madam President, my reaction to Mr Krasic's exposure was inappropriate for the home of the National Assembly, and I said so in my first presentation. I am also prepared to, according to the Rules of Procedure, suffer punishment and please, Madam President, to punish me in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I am prepared to apologize to my colleague Krasic and to all the MPs who have hurt my words, the moment Mr Krasic apologizes to the family of the late Nenad Bogdanovic for the insult he made for this same pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11642	Mr. Nikola Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11643	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 4 is similar to the number of amendments submitted by the DSS MPs to this member, and the basic urgency is to draw attention and to do something concrete on a more balanced regional development. Also in the exposé of the then prime minister, and now Prime Minister, a broad range of incentive measures has been discussed to reduce regional differences at the level of development. The adoption of a set of amendments to the DSS would just be a demonstration of these intentions. Since the debate on the draft constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there has been a proposal to introduce Serbia as a state of the region, in terms of the territorial organisation of Serbia. The DSS suggested it then, using the best regionalisation experiences in Spain and Italy. Of course, because it was necessary to achieve the broad consensus, and not all partners in this process shared the opinion of the DSS, it then gave up. This does not mean that it is not a good idea and that regionalisation should be permanently abandoned, but should be considered as a long-term goal. If there is no balanced development, then one is privileged, the other is subordinated, etc. A country that claims to adopt European values must take care to avoid asymmetry in development, as in time undeveloped parts will become even more lagging, demographics will pass, and areas will be empty. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, namely the unification of East and West Germany, a picture of the proportion in development was best seen. Of course, this example is very specific because it was the integration of two different systems. On the one hand, developed parts of Germany were overloaded because of mass economic migrations in those parts, and on the other hand they relaxed parts in the east. Even in Berlin itself, there were autistic empty neighborhoods, and even today Germany, which is one of Europe's most developed countries and as part of the engine of Europe's development, is making great efforts and material resources to deal with the problem. The aim of these investments is to motivate experts to stay and come to work in underdeveloped areas to speed up their development. According to official statistics, or state data, there are 46 undeveloped municipalities in Serbia's territory. This is a data that concerns and points to the need to take significant steps, in order to take due account of investment in infrastructure, such as roads and the like, as well as in the application of tax incentives and other development measures, in accordance with the specificities of each area. The state has adequate mechanisms to do so, and the source of funds can also be from the NIP, as well as from the Development Fund. The amendment I have proposed for the transfer of 5% of NIS sales to finance development projects in Braničevsky County territory. Unfortunately, the demographic structure there is poor, with a 25.6% demographic discharge rate for the last 35 years. The educational structure there is unsatisfactory, because many young people choose not to return to their homes, but to stay in large cities or go abroad, because they come easier to work, get better paid jobs and have better living conditions. I think it's important to say that during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, investment in the Kostolac is the largest investment that was in the EPS at the time. Focus was on expanding production and strengthening environmental standards. It also strengthened the Fireman, as well as the city that should be the engine of Braničev's development. Unfortunately, a strong industry, such as meat-processing, is not working properly there, and Braničeva alone has a very fertile pressure plain with the potential for the development of warfare, as well as Homolje with great potential for the development of livestock and forestry. Also, the Podunavlje is a great developmental opportunity. Presumptions exist, but further involvement of the state on the agenda is necessary. That is why I think it would be very important for this amendment to be accepted as a demonstration that the government finally wants to take action, in order to launch something on the basis of balanced regional development. As far as NIP funds are concerned, it is separate from 220 million dinars for gas pipelines from Mala Krsna to Požarevec, but for procedural reasons it is necessary to transfer these funds in 2009, as well as to provide additional money for other municipalities. I would like to point out once again that the ruling majority has brought the state into a teat on the issue of budget voting, that it depends on how the debate continues to take place. I hope that the current practice of automatic rejection of all proposals and amendments to the opposition will be interrupted and that this draft budget, which is not good in concept, will, at least, be corrected in its specific segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11644	Thank you, Mr. Lazic. Ms. Verica Radeta according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Krasic by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, reporting on the basis of Article 104, and we really expected you to do what your colleague Djurisic said. He himself said that he asked you to give him a proper measure of the Rules of Procedure, which means you give him a warning, because he himself admitted that he reacted as he reacted, but I answered for something else. Mrs Nada Kolundžija said earlier that a colleague, Marko Djurisic, said at a meeting of the Security Committee that the board was a circus because Mr. Todorovic did not give someone his word. If that wasn't true, I'd only read one part of the stenogram and exactly what Marko Djurisic was saying at the time. Mr. Todorovic gave him his word. He said - Mr. Marko Djurisic answered. Marko Djurisic says, "Thank you, Mr. President. I must express my dissatisfaction with the way this session was prepared and called. I don't think it was called in to properly inform the Committee on the topic of events and the situation in the defense system, because if it were a wish, then I guess we should get some material. You called this committee, as you yourself said, based on an interview by the Chief of Staff on a daily newspaper. The Chief of Staff attends today's session. No one from the Ministry is present. Since arguments have been made in different media, I'm afraid we're in no position to get full information today. We can only get one piece of information about the state and events in the defense system. What I'm saying is that I think you called this in to create a media circus and I'm protesting this occasion. "Mr. Marko Djurisic said the Security Committee was called up to create a media circus and then, Mrs. Kolundzija, was not challenged by anything. Whether it was a board for some media circus or not, it is the conclusion of a committee that Mr Djurisic voted for. I'm paraphrasing that conclusion now, but it's about to say that because of the relationship between General Ponos and Minister Sutanovac, the country is in danger because of a possible military coup. This is the essence of the conclusion reached on that committee and for that conclusion was voted by Mr Marko Djurisic, who was also voted by all the other MPs. This is only for the sake of truth and I ask you to serve the truth in the future, when you speak to the public first.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11646	Mrs. Radeta, you know best how rarely I resort to punishment and you know best what degree of tolerance I express when it comes to all MPs. I really didn't hear it, but I believe Mr. Ambassador was telling the truth. He reacted to all this, and I think we can really be perfectly satisfied with it for today and continue our work. As far as your comments regarding the committee are concerned, we, at the conclusion of the committee, acted as the Assembly. We acted as a Assembly, and the MP took part as president, at the conclusion of the committee. Mr. Krasic, you have your word, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11647	I would ask you at the beginning that a stenogram of my previous presentation given to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, since she was not present in the O.R. while I was talking, and I see that she was very competently involved in the discussion. Yes, the board reached a conclusion at that session. The session also read a letter informing the defence minister of the Security Committee that he was unable to attend because of official obligations. By the way, let me tell you "The fight for the parliamentary regime in Serbia", Milivove Popovic, buy that. It only costs 100 dinars in the bookshop "Nikola Pasic" and you will understand most of our processes that are happening because it is repeated. Now I would like to include myself in this amendment, which Nikola Lazic submitted, for some more moments, without intending to repeat what I have already said, but I draw your attention that practically from the 30th to the 45th regular numbers are almost identical amendments. The purpose of these amendments is to redistribute funds from the sale of NIS. It's about 75%, about 80%, about 85%, depending on which MP submitted the amendment. For the Republic of 10%, and 15, 10 or 5%, depending on the proportion, for a special programme of government or for municipalities from those territories where the applicants of the amendments come from, so Petkovic took Chačak, Šormaz took Smederevo and the environment, Zoran took Valjevo, Milica took... There are various variations. If the logic that was present when the Government formulated attitude 5 is applied, I must say that this is a healthier logic in amendments than in you. Why? You said 90 and 10, AP Vojvodina 90%, 10% to the Republic of Serbia. I won't say it again. I think that attitude 5 is absolutely unconstitutional and illegal. Everything that the budget's revenue is going into the budget, and if something is going somewhere, it's going from the budget, there's no need to individually determine the source of income and define spending immediately. And that's where you've gone beyond even the notion of purposeful use, because this looks a little bit like intentional use, so now it turns out it was sold on purpose because of Vojvodina, because that's how you distribute. Which is not true. She didn't sell it to Vojvodina. Thank God, she can't sell anything, especially the president of the Vojvodina Executive Council. He's faceless, so you don't jump. That's the big problem. They, rocked by your logic, gave new ideas and tried to mock this member, to see how it could be even more pointless than the government invented. The government's proposal is for purely political reasons within one party, so the autonomists don't jump. The point of the robbery, as I showed you, where our money is. No one's gonna sell ours. If we applied that logic that's characteristic of them, then Vojvodina couldn't have electricity, because it only produces 0.2% of the total electricity. That's not why I answered. The SRS ideology is not based on these percentages, I'm just using it as an example to point to the execution of such thinking and that no one who deals with politics in Vojvodina should fall under the influence of the policy promoted by Nenad Canak and similar to him. It's ghetto politics. They are for the ghettoisation of Vojvodina, using the principle of European integration, the European region, the intermedia, etc., the Danube Union, Otto von Habsburg, thank God, died. That's the story. That didn't start in '92. For centuries, it has stood as a programme and as a plan, a continuation, the resuscitation of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, as part of the concept of unity between religious and world government, religions in the Vatican, and the world in big Germany. But what can I do for you? Read people's books. Some have written, these are not geopolitical studies, these are historical books with facts, with documents, they've also written about it by Smilja Avramov, and I don't order a whole series of authors who've dealt with this problem, so I can't stand sanctions from your ignorance. So that's the idea. As for these things, I really didn't hear what Marco said, it's not a problem, but the problem is that you have to read that stenogram or try to remember what I said. I just told you in advance, I was just trying to paraphrase or quote, in the way I heard what he said, I also found out the name, Alexander Marton in the "Problem" show on "Study B", where he said, please, we are now defending Goran Knezevic from this party, who is a member of the DS. Who are we defending him from? From the DS. Why are we defending him? Turns out he's the head of the biggest construction mob in the country. And what, he says, are they not dealing with the New Sad and Belgrade? Those are his words. Find him, then take his family, both alive and dead. I told you in the beginning who said it. That's it. Why the father-in-law? Because there are these centers of power, there are these conflicts, it is evident that DS has lost its ideology, it cannot be identified, not because of coalition partners, but because of the pathology of government. At any cost, the government, as a means and instrument, to be grabbed. Not you in the assembly, you're not that caliber. The caliber is outside the DS, in the NGO sector, in the institutes, Danko Djindjic, not to order further. You don't need to jump, he's not your member. You're an instrument, you're supportive, you're protecting here with your discussions. What are you protecting? You will determine what you are protecting. I'm just talking in advance, six months ahead of you, and I keep telling you what's gonna happen. Media manipulation will keep you in some aggregate state. But now it's cold to go back to the amendment. This attitude 5 couldn't have gone through. I think the intention is now naked, to see what the background is. The background is to narrow down some internal relations so there won't be any shivering. But you're counting on your foothold there, but you understand one thing, the Republic of Serbia is a unique territory, and you have to approach it that way. Article 184, "bi-bip" of the Act, so I don't get a warning, defines what you can do, but that law is not the budget law. There has been a tendency before that in the Constitution where it stands "in accordance with the law", some finance ministers have interpreted that it means it can also be the budget law. Budget law is a technical regulation. It does not build anything new, but is found to be, in terms of analysis, what the state's obligations are and what the state's rights are in the case of the revenue side of the budget. This depends, because I can ask the question right now -- why didn't you put a position 5 in the 2007 budget of that member so you can say -- it's sold "Neoplant", 90% of the Neoplant Parade goes to Vojvodina, 10% to the Republic. It didn't occur to you. Why? He can't do it by law. The Budget Law cannot change the Law on Privatisation, no other law can change the Pensions Act. How? What do you mean by the Budget Act to change the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act? Children's Protection Act, how can you change it? The childcare law exists, then you say we have in the Budget Law, article 675, since so many members would be in the budget law, but, extremely, from article 75. The 2009 Child Care Act, so let's get something out of it. He can't. One is the privatisation of social capital, the other is the sale of state capital. This is the central problem of Article 5. All of this has to be income, expressed in currency, reduced to dinars, and from there from the single box parts, whether you're going to be percentageally, whether nominally, it doesn't matter, but this is the way you're preparing the ground for something. We object to the way you prepare the terrain. Our complaint does not refer to the constitutional provision that 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget is the AP Vojvodina's budget. No, we don't touch the part where there are still obligations of the Republic of Serbia through various ministries, which concerns the AP Vojvodina, the outstretched departments that work there. We don't touch that either, but all of what you think is 360m euros, in dinar equivalent, you secure it through the vault, through the budget, from other revenues, whatever you want to secure, but the NIS's assets are budget revenue and there's no other purpose. How do you target 90% there now, 10% here? Based on what? What is a dedicated use of funds? You're here making double use of funds, two levels of dedicated use of funds. Well, that's impossible. You have texted, but this is in euros, I beg your pardon. You can't distribute it. On the bulky side of the budget, you have to show it in dinars, and here you have shown it - sales funds; sales funds are 400m euros, 90% is 360m euros. It's completely, completely unacceptable and I'm sure that this provision was one of those points that made it necessary for two months within the government to be bigger, negotiating, threatening a terrible court of the Sistine chapel, twisting hands, kidnapping, and otherwise ensuring the political will to pass here. You already have the fact that those who once supported you, up until about a month ago, don't go into the O.R. anymore, are angry about the previous vote, whether people for this, whether people for something third, doesn't matter. I'm not sorry they're not here. Don't get me wrong. I am a supporter of a single Serbia, a single policy, because I think only the Republic of Serbia with its highest authorities is a guarantee of human rights at every point in the Republic of Serbia. It cannot be a guarantee of human rights of municipalities, it must be authority, the greatest authority to stand behind the Constitution and the law. There is certainly the Government of the Republic of Serbia, without any other indignity. But let's keep the state safe, see if the dicks from all over the place are going, everybody wants to rip a little bit. We don't have a spare state, people. I'm only saying this to save this people and this country. I don't care about other things. I'm not offended, and when you throw it away, it's inspiring to me. If you win, there's no problem, but let's save Serbia. Let's increase the number of employees, not fire people. Let our companies work, not let everything go bankrupt. The bankruptcy is our second privatisation, you know that? The bankruptcy is a form of failed privatisation, that's what we told these people when they passed the bankruptcy law, that it was a valve where the social property of the bamboo would be sold out. Unfortunately, God has not endowed us with these private capital owners. And they grab, they grab the poor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11648	Thank you. Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11649	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, is the understandable intensity of the DSS colleagues on these amendments that go in line, where they tried, as counterpart Nikola Lazic said earlier, to point out the need for balanced regional development, etc. I called about what Mr. Krasic was saying earlier. Mr. Krasic, from what you've been saying, it's clear not only now, but also a moment ago in these amendments, that you don't understand the Vojvodina. You don't seem to understand the Duke. A provision in the Constitution that 7% of the republic's budget goes to the province budget of the AP Vojvodina is a contribution that boasted of all mouths until six months ago by the head of your parliamentary group. He, when adopting the last constitution, repeatedly publicly stated that he had a crucial impact on finding a 7% provision in the Constitution. We have been against this Constitution even then, and today we believe that the Constitution does not reflect the need for this society to move forward. The 7% provision, and then it was humiliating for us for Vojvodina, for a simple reason, not because the Vojvodjans, in which, I completely agree with you, most of the Serbian people, want to restore Austro-Hungarians, want to make a special republic or want to share Serbia and to secede from Serbia. The dukes only want their work to be adequate for the work they have done and the income they have from it. You know how much from Vojvodina is poured into the Republic of Serbia's budget. As a result, some colleagues, who are not present at the moment, but who are from parties based in Vojvodina, have submitted an amendment to indicate a certain figure in the budget. That's why we asked that there be more funds in the budget for Vojvodina than is provided for in this law. But don't let the intra-party problem, which you tried to say exists in the DS, or conflicts between the province's prime minister or anyone else, as you tried to say, put it on the backs of the people of Vojvodina, trying to say that someone is trying to isolate Vojvodina from Serbia. It is no one's intention, I'm sure, anyone who lives in the province of Vojvodina, at any time, to separate himself from the Vojvodina. The bottom line is that the citizens of Vojvodina can decide on their lives, in the end line and on the means they create in an adequate manner. We believe that 7% is not adequate, but the essence of this attitude 5 in Article 4 of the budget is that the Privatisation Act has been violated, that someone was unable to make an optimal budget in which at least 7%, as foreseen by the Constitution, and without breaking the law, would be distributed to Vojvodina. The problem is that the Privatisation Act, Lex specialis, has been violated, exclusively by Article 61, etc. That's the problem. The problem is, someone's running the law by the minute to 12 to get the budget. Not wanting to challenge the replica, of course, you can answer, but I have the impression that you do not understand Vojvodina, you do not understand the needs of the citizens of Vojvodina. All of us who said it's a little 7% still think so. We are not contesting any region in Vojvodina, any municipality in Vojvodina, that, adequately, what it is causing, is so much that it is returning to the budget of that municipality. But that's not why you put the citizens of Vojvodina or the citizens of Novi Sad, as you said in your previous address, in the position of wanting to separate Serbia from Vojvodina, that they want to restore Austro-Hungarian, etc. I ask for a little more respect for Vojvodina, and once again I ask the Minister for a little more understanding that the law is respected. I can see she's having a good time here, but that's not the point. The bottom line is that the law is respected and that the draft budget law cannot contain provisions that violate the other law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11650	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Željko Tomic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11651	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Presidents, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment saying that Article 4 of Section 5 is changing and is said to be extremely from Article 61. The law on privatisation of the AP Vojvodina budget belongs to 85%, the budget of the Republic of Serbia 10% of the sale of NIS. The remaining 5%, according to the government's special programme, is allocated to the municipalities of Kikinda, Senta, Choko, Kanjiža, Novi Knezevic and Ada, the town of Subotica and the municipalities of Backo Topol and Mali Ijoš. "I explained that, in order to achieve a balanced regional development, I believe that 5% of NIS sales should be foreseen for the financing of multi-purpose development projects in the territory of the North-Borth-North-North-North-North-North-Novel district. Almost all positions in the 2009 draft budget law are growing compared to the 2008 budget rebalance, except for these transfer funds for cities and municipalities. We've pointed that out more than once. This could seriously endanger the functioning of all local self-government. To remind me of the presentation of my colleague, John Palalic, who has submitted a very similar amendment, almost the same, only to other parts of the Vojvodina. It is known that through the Constitution we have received this Capital Investment Fund, but, as he said, transparency, or the public is not most specifically addressed to the functioning of this fund. There's a lot of talk about this performing statute, about what the District of Vojvodina Assembly adopted. What I'd like to put an accent on, a lot of people said it was a "new sedation". I agree with that assumption and that statement. In what way? You'll see when the debate comes on the agenda, we'll go into detail, now just in principle. The administration, administration, is planned to be greatly increased, and it will be fully located right in Novi Sad, in the Executive Council building and the Vojvodina Assembly. This will be very interesting, I will remind you, this is how the leadership and the current Republic of Montenegro, which has become an independent state, began to work. They say Vojvodina's statute is equal to Serbia's decentralisation. Only the decentralisation of the Vojvodina is gone. That's what this is all about, and that's what these DSS amendments are about. For a long time, almost the same political forces have been in power in Vojvodina, which today have been scramblingly insisting that the AP Vojvodina Statute be held at a meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible. Let's take a look at, say, just a few examples of what's going on in the Central and North Coast. For example, you have this already famous development road to Palic, towards the tourist complex, still past the government, watch out - the past government has placed it among the five most important tourist complexes. So, shoulder to shoulder with Zlatibor, Bather, etc. Something started working back then, at least a year ago, it's all about now. It's the same situation with the Kikind-Basaid route. That, when we generally and globally think, doesn't mean much to you, but from kickinda to bar, to the Adriatic Sea, it's the worst-ordered stock. There was something going on until the election, and now it's completely stopped. I talked to a couple of people from kickinda today. That's a very big problem for them. Why? Because soon a great border crossing is opening, very close, at a place called Nakovo, where the share of times is extremely important to them. The state isn't responding here for now. I mean, it's that lack of decentralisation. When someone mentions that word, the lack of decentralisation of the Vojvodina. That's why many of the citizens of the Vojvodina are sore, as it is noted that Novi Sad is more than fortified. I'm saying this as a born Novosadian. And my ancestors are from Novi Sad. I don't have that kind of problem. So we're facing an increase in bureaucracy. Several thousand people will be sitting in that administration, and concrete development and production projects are becoming less and less. What follows in the course of the debate, you have before you all the MPs, pay attention to the correction of the amendment of counterpart Milos Aligrudic, who, in my opinion, is intruding into the essence. As you set yourselves against him, according to me, you will show true intentions. If you refuse that amendment, I will be with you clearly and in general the DSS Parliament Club. Let me just say for the end of a few more words about what Mr. Maras just said, that the constitutional category is 7% humiliating for Vojvodina. How is it possible that no one has taken the figures from the AP Vojvodina budget in the last ten years, and only to extract 7% of the republican budget and see how much it is. Every 7% of the republican budget in the last many years is much more than the AP Vojvodina had in its budget. That's what you should know. One more thing, when we remember that constitutional referendum and those political forces and parties that were against it, it belongs to Mr. Maras and LSV, and we'll remember all of them, only one thing they didn't object to. They formed the Capital Investment Fund in the Vojvodina Assembly, which was assigned to them by the Constitution. They didn't object because it was money, and it was very big money. I repeat, Serbia and the public of Vojvodina today have no insight into the functioning of the fund. It's a lot of money. That fund, they say, also fund parties, fund similar institutions throughout the Vojvodina. We'll talk about it a little bit more when the AP Vojvodina statute comes in front of us. I repeat, there is no luck if we only talk about decentralisation in a way that has two regions: Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina, and we treat them in particular. They're not regions, they're autonomous provinces, they're constitutional categories. What about the rest of Serbia? How will Krushevac and Valjevo react? To remind MP Bosko Ristic of how he reacted in those powerful stories about the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, so what is it that the city of Nis can't have, and it can have the entire AP Vojvodina and all the cities in Vojvodina. Remember Bosko Ristić's press release. I can't wait to discuss the AP Vojvodina statutes to see MPs from the ruling coalition, who then spoke one thing, but outside Vojvodina, there were very few who reacted and we know how they reacted, whether they would change their mind as the SPS drastically changed their minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11652	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic. Please follow the amendments. When I ask, I look and I see very clearly who answered the word. Since no one has been reported, we have moved to the amendment to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11653	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, has been under discussion for a few days now about the budget. It's December 27th. The DSS is trying to try, as far as possible, to improve this budget, to make it better and sincerely hope, that we, MPs of the DSS, will priorly decide on this budget to understand the importance of all these amendments and to accept most of them. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(5), where it is exclusively from Article 61. The law on the privatisation of the budget of the AP Vojvodina belongs to 85%, to the Republic of Serbia 10% of the sale of NIS, and the remaining 5%, according to the government's special programme, is allocated to the cities of the Rasin County of Kruševac, Aleksandrovac, Brus, Varvarin, Cicevic and Trstenik, as well as to the towns of the Raška County of Kraljevo, Novi Pazar, Raška, Tutin and Vrnjačka Banja. I think it is extremely important that the funds for cities and for these districts are increased, above all, because these districts are bordered areas with the AP Kosovo and Metohija. On many occasions here we talked about the regional migration of the population from these border districts and that it was necessary to give these districts some incentive means that, especially those bordered municipalities, they would not turn into nursing municipalities, without young people, with nursing households. Otherwise, we have already talked about this, both in the municipality of Kursumli and in the municipality of Bruce, there is a large migration of the population, a desolate village. I would mention that there are a few villages in these municipalities where, more or less, no more residents live. We have the right to ask for this, and I am counting on MPs from the ruling coalition, and I see that they are here from the Rasin County, I mean Mr Milivojevic, to support this amendment, as well as MPs from the Rasko County, because he is in the interest of all citizens of these two districts. The economic situation and the situation in these districts is pretty bad. When I say to the districts that were at some point leaders in Serbia's economic development, now because of the general economic situation and failed privatisations, they do not have a balanced external trade balance. During the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica, Rasinski County had a balanced external trade balance. However, the situation is now different, as the biggest exporters in the Rasin district now have a business problem. The Trajal company and their employees are more or less on emergency leave. The Zupa chemical industry, due to its failure to privatise and the intention of the import lobby, is in a situation that no longer produces strategic raw materials for all Serbia, and above all I mean chlorine, blue stone, sulfate. Their intention is slowly realized that these raw materials are imported. There are a number of strategic projects in Kruševec related to water supply, gasification, waste water regulation and the town of Kruševac applied for certain funds at the NIP ministry. However, according to Ms. Kalanovic, the city's leadership was suggested that in 2009, there would be no such funds, although the town of Kruševac was able to prepare complete documentation and apply with those funds with a fully prepared programme requested by the legislator. In Bruce, which is a marginal municipality with KIM, do not operate those systems, large systems that used to be developmentists, first five-year-old Bruce, then Drive '14. October, too. In Aleksandrovac, who was once a leader and known municipality for the production of agricultural products, and above all viticulture, is the same situation. In Triestenik, we already know the situation with the First Five-year-old, who was once the bearer of development not only of Trieste but also of the Rasin County. In Ćivac and Varvarin, these are also all municipalities that have applied for certain funds, primarily related to infrastructure and industrial zones. In this way, in order to create preconditions for potential investors to appear here, to address the basic needs of citizens. In his exposé here, Mr Cvetkovic said that the government's strategy is a balanced regional development of Serbia. Just by accepting this amendment that I have submitted, it would prove that Mr Cvetkovic meant it really and had the best intentions for all Serbian citizens. As a National MP from the Rasin district, I think that all municipalities, especially in the Rasin district itself, have three municipalities that are in force and have the treatment of undeveloped municipalities, should receive adequate resources to mitigate this disproportion between developed and undeveloped municipalities. By the way, Rasinski County has 259,000 inhabitants and of the 259,000 people in the Rasin district currently do not work 26.997 people. I think that this way we would create preconditions to increase the number of people who want and can work, and in the best way to influence and contribute to the prosperity of all citizens of both the Rasin County and Serbia. When we talk about Raška County, it has 296,760 inhabitants and 51,000 unemployed. The big systems, the bearers of economic development, I mean, first of all, Magnohrom, it's in the situation it's in, it doesn't work. The Privatisation Agency does not behave adequately and is not trying to find a solution and help Magnochrom workers. The car factory doesn't work either. In the Raška wooden combination '27. November doesn't work, the Confect Proleter doesn't work. In the New Market, the conflict of Russ doesn't work, the wooden combination doesn't work. In Vranjska Banja, the development vehicle was just the Fontana Tourist Organisation. We know what kind of situation they're in and what problems they're having with privatizing the Fontana. In Tuttina, the wooden combination of Jelak is also in trouble. That's all I've been encouraged by this amendment to look for funds for those very important projects that would, above all, help improve the infrastructure of these areas and for development programmes that would help to employ as many workers as possible. As my esteemed colleague Petar Jojic said, we have a case that a privatisation was carried out in Triestenik where Mr. Todorovic, who was repeatedly mentioned here, bought a company, a Croatian company. And we are both capable and working, and we want to create the possibility that our people, with the help of this country, live honestly from their work. For these reasons, I hope you will accept this amendment of mine. Secondly, this is an area of great potential, both Rasinski and Raski County, and the natural potential to be potential tourist destinations not only for Serbian citizens, but for tourists from Europe and around the world. Infrastructure is beyond necessary, NIP funds are also needed, but also government assistance and all structures in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11654	The word has an MP named Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11655	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, as I said in the first amendment to Article 4, which was submitted by fellow Radovanovic, next amendments to the DSS that they are trying to influence unbalanced development in regions or municipalities in Serbia. However, the predecessor of Mr. Radulovic, Mr. Zeljko Tomic, except that he was inaccurate when he said that Vojvodina with these 7% got more than she had before, I don't know about what more, perhaps more when it comes to dinars, but that's far from what Vojvodina belongs to, and was also incorrect. Mr. Tomic, you know very well that the LDP has never participated in the province government, nor in any way had the opportunity to influence the allocation of funds from the Development Fund. It would be much more correct if you said which party controls the fund, how it has it, when these funds are used most and for what purposes they go. I'm undermining again, and I'm sorry that this debate over this member of the essence is being moved. There is always an attempt to mark the citizens of Vojvodina as someone who gets something, and the rest of Serbia cannot get it. I underline, your party president, president of the parliamentary club then of the SRS, the president of Serbia has created a constitution that is now in force. You have defined at least 7% for Vojvodina. The problem is that whenever a period comes to make a budget proposal, there is a problem with respect for those 7%. Implicate now that it's a lot of resources or that you need to go to another side is running away from the essence. The government broke the Privatisation Act with the draft budget law, as it stepped down when NIS sold to a direct contract in agreement, rather than in accordance with the Privatisation Act. Chairman, please, if you don't mind Mr. Becic sending laser beams to the speaker's eyes, it bothers me. I'd like you to warn him. Mr. Becic sits there, pointing a laser at my eyes. (President: Continue. I won't continue until you warn him. Madam Chairman, he resisted my laser in the eye and I ask you to remind him to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11656	People's MP, continue the presentation, leave the session to the chairman. I can give a warning measure, and then a warning measure when I see that there's been a breach of one of the members of the Rules of Procedure, not when I'm told. I ask all Members of Parliament to respect the members of the Rules of Procedure who oblige us to conduct ourselves and respect each other. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11657	Mrs. Comic, I'm really embarrassed to be coming from the same town. I won't answer my word again, this is extremely incorrect that you didn't warn an MP who interfered with the speaker in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11658	People's messenger, and I warn you, that the way you treat a pay phone to the people's messengers and the expressions you use. I ask the messengers of the people to remember all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which binds us all, and so do the speakers, and the chairman, and the messengers that sit in the benches. I repeat, under Rule 106, I can say a measure when I see that one of the MPs has broken, sitting in the hall, members of the Rules of Procedure, or the speaker doing so. It cannot be done to convince them because a very large number of warnings would be given on the basis of persuasion so far without prior warnings as to how some MPs understand the Rules of Procedure. National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11659	Madam Chairman, you have now heard probably what Mr. Vice President of the Assembly has said, and I will answer him this time. Mr. Novakovic, I said I would no longer discuss the amendments, but not expecting Mrs. Comic to resort to the old trick again, to start making chaos in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11660	National MP, I warn you to refrain from further violating members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11661	You have to tell me the way I broke the Rules of Procedure. Give me a warning, Mrs. Comic, I'm sure you're not working in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. I didn't ask you to do anything but warn Mr. Becic to stop doing what he did. He was distracting me while I was talking about how to point a laser at my eyes. If you want this to go the way you imagined it would go, it might, but I think it's extremely incorrect that you try to bring this down to my attempt at persuasion making it impossible for you to react. You react in situations where none of you expect it, nor do you have any needs. I volunteered to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, according to the amendment. I didn't mean to insult anyone in any way, to interfere with the debate, etc., but I'm distracted as I speak. It's your duty to act. Those sympathys, which you obviously show for that MP club, that's your business, but we're all the same here. There's been an incident as long as you're running the session. That's why I tried to draw your attention to what was going on and ask you to react. You reacted, in my opinion, in the worst possible way. I call on you, if you think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, do it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it's no problem, but I think you're violating the Rules of Procedure because you won't act, at least tell the MP to stop doing it, if he did, if he didn't, then give me a warning about lying. We can't pretend like nothing happened. If you can't appreciate the construction of the LDP so that no amendment can be submitted so that it can be discussed so that the budget can be voted upon, if you don't appreciate our constructiveity that every time we report, we try to make arguments that we are talking about an amendment, but you're putting us in a position that we really feel at least in an unequal position compared to some parliamentary groups. I call you once again, Madam Vice President, if you think I'm violating the Rules of Procedure, you act in accordance with the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11662	People's MP, there's no injury to the member you're referring to. When I feel that someone is violating the Rules of Procedure, and I say that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I warn the Members of Parliament, and then if the MP who violates the Rules of Procedure is deafened by the warning I give the first warning, I say on the basis of which, I call on Rule 106. If, then, the MP is deaf, I shall give another warning, until the word is taken away, or until all the unpopular funds and mechanisms that the Rules of Procedure have been made possible. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11663	Dear fellow Members of the People, although I have come to take a word on the amendment of the previous speaker, Mr. Tomic, the chairman has ignored it, she did not see me in time, we moved on to Mr. Milos Radulovic's amendment. There are 15 amendments that aim to redistribute NIS privatisation within the AP Vojvodina and the SRS, of course, have an opinion on this matter and I believe that we should present it, although we have carried it out by reacting to this article by amendment to Mr Martinovic, which we have asked for this whole Article to be deleted. We have seen from the government's explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of the article. Paragraph 5 creates conditions for the AP Vojvodina budget to be at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement the constitutional provision, which will be ensured by the sale of NIS. One logical question to ask is what would have happened if it hadn't been for the sale of NIS, or what would we have done to meet that constitutional obligation to get the Autonomous Province's budget 7% of the republican budget? So that's the basic question. As things have become normal in this congregation, as we have become accustomed to breaking hands, to having MPs thrown out, to cursing their mother, to making it impossible for their laser beams to work normally, the question is what else is going to be normal. It's just not normal for everyone to be able to do it. So it's very important who does it. These guys can curse their mother, and they can't curse their mother. This guy can shoot laser beams directly into the eyes of the MPs, somebody else shouldn't do it. The other day there was a show by Mrs. Mira Adanje-Polak on TV, where she showed a guy who, thanks to that, lost his sight, 90% doesn't see one eye, so maybe we should check out his pockets and see who's got everything. One day someone can even show up here with some chakra or I don't know what. To tell you the truth, Madam Chairman, it's simply inconceivable that you can't even reprimand someone because you didn't see with your own eyes, there's a man two feet in front of you. I believe you can't see half the O.R. from him, across my head you probably see the whole O.R., but you couldn't see anything from him. Is it possible that you don't trust him that much, or do you think he would abuse this pay phone to talk about something like that? However, let us return to this amendment, although I think this was worth the attention, since it shows what the atmosphere is like in parliament, and what the atmosphere in parliament is like to have an atmosphere in political life. The argument given by the Government on this amendment, i.e. why it does not accept it, and the reason it states that the NIS funds, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, belong to the AP Vojvodina budget for financing capital reasons on the territory of this Autonomous province, for the implementation of a constitutional provision, under which the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the Serbian budget, is absolutely untrue. You know that according to the Privatization Act, the Autonomous Province, if the privatization company gets 50% of the value of that privatisation. The law, the Budget Law, must respect absolutely every law that exists in legal traffic in the Republic of Serbia. This law is not binding on other laws, so now we're going to build into those other laws what you put into the budget law, but exactly the opposite. So 50% and even, no more. If you didn't have 7% to honor the AP Vojvodina Constitution as a territorial unit, then probably this deficit of yours had to be bigger or had to be denied some funds from some other positions. Besides, you're saying that by a provision of an article. Paragraph 5. The bill redistributes the revenue obtained from the sale of NIS between the Republic of Serbia's budget and the AP Vojvodina budget to which the said revenue would belong, which is not true, so there is no basis for participation in the achieved revenue by municipalities not on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, as proposed by the amendment. So, you're making complete lies in your arguments. I have to say, the SRS really can't support these amendments. Although there is one in our people, it seems to me, not only the custom but the need for a family that has, say, two children, so there is an advanced child, God has given him something a little more skill and it is progressing, and there is one child who, thank God, is just as healthy and smart, but something doesn't really work out for him, I guess the stars weren't very fond of him when he was born as this first child. What are parents doing? They always help that kid with a little helmet and a little less. I always wondered if it was right or not. It may be fairer to help the one who goes even further forward, because everyone will benefit much more than that, but it's simply not moral, so then you help the weaker. It's the same for you when you share funds in the budget and you decide who belongs to who. Now, the case was wanted, God wanted that Vojvodina, because of the resources it has and because of the coincidence that some company's headquarters is right there, has more resources, has more opportunities to develop. You have, say, southern Serbia or eastern Serbia, which God was not so fond of, or someone 50-60 years ago developing the economy did not allow such large and strong enterprises, which are now going to privatise, so they have a lack of funds. How do we even it out now? There must be some solidarity there. That's exactly what we had in mind when we passed the Privatisation Act, why these 50% and 50% of Serbia's budget. So other parts of the state would have that part of the money. I understand those who are from Vojvodina asking for it, but I think it's not only politically not good, but it can't be national interest, not even entering whether it's constitutional or unconstitutional, whether it's legal or illegal. Above all legal acts there's some national interest, there's some generally accepted morale, which I believe we all tend to, or should be the assumption that these people came here just like that. Obviously, that's not exactly the case, because we've had more examples so far. Here we go from that NIS privatisation. The full press was an argument against it, and the question is what if it hadn't been for now, but that's why all the press has stopped almost privatising Sartide, which was sold for the poor or no 20 million, not the euro, but the dollars. What's that same Sartide doing now? Where's he exporting? He only exports to the Russian market and came here for that, or he was literally donated to the US Steel. For those who don't know, and I believe that many citizens don't know because the press is constantly pointing them in the other direction, I'm just going to say briefly because it's about this amendment. We'll get gas and fuel for about 20% cheaper. Secondly, the Russians here, through companies that will own 51% of NIS, will process and export oil derivatives, which, of course, year by year, you will agree with me, will reduce our external trade deficit. The state also acted exactly the same way in the case of the flag, and in the case of the sale of NIS and in the case of this gas agreement at all. She made a deal without a tender, the only thing that was zero in the case of the flag price. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. Gazprom will pay 400 million in the budget, and Fiat will not pay the euro. Fiat should invest some 700 million, then, in a new company, Serbia another 100 million in free land giving, freeing all local taxes and taxis at the republican level, and Serbia would invest 200 million through subsidies and taxes, and would still share the risk with Fiat. Here, when it comes to NIS, there's almost no risk at all. Now I'm asking you -- if this budget is adopted this way, could it be subject to review before the Constitutional Court? The Constitutional Court should listen well to what we do here, speak and take this law and look and see if there is room for its response. We think that there is and that it would be best to accept the SRS amendment and avoid the risk because this member of the budget cannot possibly agree with the Privatisation Act or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11664	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic has the word, and the People's Messenger Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11665	Dear fellow MPs, on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I submitted five amendments total to the 2009 budget proposal. I've been accepted three amendments and I don't know why, but I have the impression that my amendment will be accepted when it comes to Article 4(5). Namely, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(5), which reads - that it is extremely from Article 61. The privatisation law, the AP Vojvodina budget, belongs to 85%, the budget of the Republic of Serbia 10% of the sale of NIS, and the remaining 5% according to the special programme of the Government is allocated to towns of Sabac, Loznica, Krupanj, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Vladimirci, Koceljeva and Bogatic, i.e. municipalities from the territory of the Mačvanski District. So here we are really trying to affirm something that has also been promised in the election campaign. This is, however, the speciality of Minister Dinkic - therefore, even regional development. There is a chance that, if nothing else, at least the MPs of G17 plus who belong to the ruling majority, if nothing else because of pre-election promises, I hope the honest ones, in the same way that they support this amendment in particular and prove that they are indeed for balanced regional development. Many municipalities from the territory of the Mačvan district are actually underdeveloped municipalities and these funds would certainly be welcome in order to finance many development projects on the territory of these municipalities. That's not much, you know, 5% of 400m euros is about 20m euros. That would be quite enough for many development projects, which these municipalities have either started, or intend to start, and finalize. I think the situation with the municipalities is very serious and we didn't talk about them here, of course, but I first found out about the previous amendments that we're going to have a budget deficit of 30 billion. It is quite certain or with a high degree of probability that we can say here that the transfer funds that go to municipalities and cities in December will not be at the expense of these municipalities. Believe me, many municipalities, and especially these small, undeveloped ones, will have a problem financing the basic overhead costs they have, and many municipalities will not have to pay even their employees. Since we know and what January it is, I fear that the number of municipalities will indeed be even higher in January. What's symptomatic of this budget is two things -- that everything is consistent with the inflation rate for the next year of 8.5%, except for the first morning we mentioned, which is pensions, and the second thing is that the transfer funds remained in the same amount as the previous year. Now I don't know why the municipalities would suffer, and I'd like to get that answer, which is why the transfer funds are not also consistent with the inflation growth of next year. Because, as the state plans this budget, which we once again said was unreal and not realistic, and as in many things increases, if nothing else for the percentage of inflation, then transfer funds should have increased by that same percentage. I'm asking a question here - does the Ministry of Finance know what kind of financial situation many municipalities are in? Many municipalities take large loans. In particular, the Municipality of Sabac made a decision, today is Saturday, so yesterday - that in the following year they are in charge of 300 million dinars, and already the budget of the Municipality of Šabac, i.e. the city of Šapca, is burdened with loans. I suppose it's the Sabbath leadership that's been forced to finance certain projects they've entered, but the de facto municipalities are in debt. Many other municipalities throughout Serbia are doing so. If we cut them off on transfer funds, or leave them at the same level as it was this year, and we will not pay for any transfer funds in December, or in January, or we will get some power to pay for what we were supposed to pay in December -- trust me, all municipalities are moving with one big minus and it will be very burdensome. So, with a lot of confidence in you, Madam Minister, I believe that my fourth amendment will be adopted, and believe me, we will know in the Machuvan County that in the best way possible we will spend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11666	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11667	Ladies and gentlemen, there are 16 amendments from 30th to 46th members that are almost entirely identical and are proposed to reroute certain NIS funds to certain municipalities. It is completely politically legitimate, but I think it is not right, as I do not think the Serbian government's decision to reroute 90% of NIS funds to fill the AP Vojvodina budget. The NIS is the property of all Serbian citizens, the funds obtained by its sale, so they should go to the budget and then, like all other income funds, be distributed evenly across Serbia's territory. As the subject of these amendments is NIS, and the topic of this session is budget and budget users, and among the budget users are public enterprises, I will take the opportunity to remind the citizens of Serbia of one topic that we were dealing with in late November and early December, which brought great public attention. There are salaries in public enterprises, i.e. abuses in paying these salaries. I asked the Serbian government for two notices on 8 December. The first was, I asked for the names of all directors of 28 public enterprises to be delivered to me the amount of their salaries, the amount of total income in 2007 and 2008, as well as their party membership. I asked for the same thing for the presidents and members of the boards of directors, for the presidents and members of the boards of directors. That's when I read the data I heard, which was spoken from this pay phone or published in the media. Once again, because of Serbian citizens, I will repeat these data also because of the response I received from the Serbian government. NIS, I read the salaries of the director - 600,000 dinars, the Agency for Flight Control - 466,000 dinars, JAT - 348,000 dinars, Nikola Tesla Airport - 382.210 dinars, EPS - 297.740 dinars, Elektro Network of Serbia - 289.713 dinars, Serbia - 287.495 dinars, Transnafta - 287.272 dinars, Serbia - 165.184 dinars, Railways of Serbia - 135.784 dinars, PTT Serbia - 220.429 dinars, PTT dinars Agency - 284.620 dinars, Agency for Business Registers - 237.534 dinars, Deposit Insurance Agency - 283,018 dinars, Office for textbooks and teaching funds - 215.620 dinars, RTS - 255,000 dinars, Tanju - 33,000 dinar dinars - 22,000 dinar - 22,000 dinar dinars - 22,000 dinars. After the issue was raised in public, the Galenika Management Board issued a statement that the director's salary was reduced to 282,000 dinars. As they gave him an eyeful of 382,000 dinars, they cut off 100,000 less, which means they've set no criteria. The salaries of the board president - NIS - 700,000 dinars, the Aviation Control Agency - 1.3 million dinars, I read the data published in the media. As you know, none of these media is under the control of the SRS and the opposition. JAT, the chairman of the board of directors' salary - 77,000 dinars, Serbia's Elektro Network - 94,422 dinars, Serbia - 94,200 dinars, Transnafta - 65,000 dinars, Serbia - 71,407 dinars, Serbia's Railways - 104,584 dinars, PTT Serbia - 200,000 dinars, the Agency for Business Registers - 37,500 dinars, the Institute for Teachers and Teachers - 56,390 dinars. Payments from board members - NIS - 235,000 dinars, Aviation Control Agency - million dinars, JAT - 51,457 dinars, EPS - 56,653 dinars, Serbia Elektro Network - 50,249 dinars, Serbia - 56,653 dinars, Transnafta - 50,000 dinars, Serbiashum - 57,120 dinars, Serbian Railways - 81,340 dinars, PTT Serbia - 160,100 dinars, Privatisation Agency - 20,000 dinars, Business Registers Agency - 30,000 dinars and Institute for textbooks and teaching funds - 46,267 dinars. The following data, Air Force Director Bojan Kristo paid himself 880,000 dinars in June. Bojan Kristo, according to Mladjan Dinkic, on the show "The Imprint of the Week", 350,000 dinars monthly salary and bonuses of 150,000 dinars. In the same month, three managers at the airport were paid a bonus of half a million dinars. A foreign colleague from G17 Velimir Radosavljevic, Kristo, paid 538,000 dinars in two months. As chairman of the Galenik Management Board, Kristo charged 100,000 dinars each meeting of the board of directors. In just one month, he made a half a million dinar bill on one official phone. The director of the Central Charter Register of Value Vida Seljec received 1.2 million dinars in November. Former director of the DDOR Novi Sad, Bogdan Kuzmanovic, quit his job and took an severance of 226,000 euros. Former director of the "Nikola Tesla" Airport and the Serbia Ski resort, Nebojsa Nedeljkovic, took only 3,760,000 dinars in the name of severance in eight months. Assuming that Nedeljkovic, like his successor Kristo, had a salary of 350,000 dinars for the eight months, without having had any bonuses mentioned by Mladjan Dinkic, we get an additional 2,800,000 dinars. In eight months, 6,560,000 dinars or 800,000 dinars a month. Just 10,000 euros. Former JAT Technology Director Radoslav Tomasevic, who turned to the post of Assistant Minister of Infrastructure, took 2,150,000 dinars for severance. Radivoj Rajaković, in the name of the severance from the airport, was paid 3,515,656 dinars. Where did they find these six dinars? Immediately after receiving the severance, Rajakovic moved to a new post at Serbia's Ski resort. In January 2008, the severances of 141 airport workers were paid at 121,617,763 dinars, nearly a million dinars of severance per worker. Interestingly, for comparisons, as proof that you have citizens of the first and second order, workers of the first and second order, in October of this year 60 fired workers of the airport received a severance of 30,000 dinars. The ones for a million dinars, these for 30,000 dinars. At the time, the secretary of the airport, Miri Nikolic, was paid 1,314,000 dinars in the name of severance. Then, the former chairman of the Telecom Management Board, Milan Christmas, received 1.5 million dinars in May this year in the name of the 2007 bonus. I asked the government for a notice -- how much the director's salaries are, I asked the public prosecutor's office to respond. If these numbers are correct, to act on duty, to initiate criminal proceedings. If this is not true, to launch official actions against the persons who provided this information from this press conference. I asked the government for an answer, and I got the answer from the Ministry of Culture, which contains the following data. What does black culture have to do with this? It's probably a bit of a misunderstanding now - whether these culture ministry guys planted or if they ran themselves. The reply lists the amount of salary in the public company Tanjug and the public company for the press-issued activity of Pandora. I got answers to what I didn't drink. There are two explanations. It's one thing that those of the Ministry of Culture, Tanjug and this company, Pandora, liked that we raised this issue and that they wanted to force these others in this way, to show by example that they should also deliver the data. So that's one possible explanation. Another possible explanation, more likely, is that the government is trying this way to conceal the criminal waste of money at the payoff of these salaries. What's that, it's a total gulf. Now I'm just going to read to you, just for comparison, to see a part of the answer delivered by Minister Nebojko Bradic: "Operators, members of the Management Board of the Public Enterprise for the News-Publishing Labour of Pandora, receive an amount of 10,000 dinars per year on behalf of the compensation, while v.d. The President of the Management Board shall receive an amount of 30,000 dinars per year on behalf of the compensation. The director of the Panoram Public Enterprise, in the name of the fee, receives a sum of 75,000 dinars per month, as well as a 25% addition of that amount, on behalf of the Kosovo supplement. ". On the one hand, I'm not getting into whether this data is correct, I believe it is about receiving it in the panorama. You see, that's ironic, which is untasteful. The whole of Serbia, the public in Serbia, is looking for data for a month on incomes in enterprises where up to a million and over a million dinars are received. Ask as a People's MP, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law, to officially provide you with information on these receipts, and they plant you a company where you receive 10,000 dinars on an annual basis. Since I'm not happy with the answer to the question I asked, I repeat it again. I request a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Cvetkovic, to provide me and the National Assembly with information: a list of directors of all 28 public enterprises in Serbia, president and members of the boards of directors of all public enterprises in Serbia, with the amount of their monthly salaries and all other receipts from 1 January 2007 until today. Then, to indicate their party membership, which political parties have proposed. Not to be confused, since I still have one minute left to forget, this applies to all 28 major public enterprises, but to names: NIS, Aviation Control Agency, JAT, Nicole Tesla Airport, EPS, Power Network Serbia, Serbia, Transnaft, Serbia, Railways Serbia, PTT Serbia, PAT, Agency for Privatisation, Business Registers, Deposit Insurance Agency, RTS, Ratel, Telekom and Galenika. I see by nodding the head of the ruling coalition MPs that they are joining this request and I see by the expression of their faces that they are astounded by these figures. I am looking for an answer to these questions, because they too are simply amazed by the fact that the crime takes place under the auspices of the ruling coalition and under the auspices of the ruling parties, primarily the G17 and DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11668	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Member Donka Banovic. The government and the Finance and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Donka Banovic has a word, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11669	Dear fellow MPs, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Comic, it seems to me that I've been following, and it seems to me that the DSS MPs have spoken of this amendment, and that goes next, and that's mine. On behalf of the DSS, I also submitted an amendment to Article 4(5), which changes and reads, "Extremely from Article 61. The Privatisation Act, the AP Vojvodina budget, belongs to 85%, and not to the proposal of the law 90%, that the budget of the Republic of Serbia goes 10% from the sale of NIS, and that the remaining 5% under the special programme of the Government is allocated to the municipalities of Piroth, Bela Palanka, Dimitrovgrad, Babušnica and Vranje and the municipality of Vladicin Han, Surdulica, Bosilegrad, Trište, Bujanovac and Presevo, so the Pcinj County. "I am particularly emphasising the words "regional development", the Minister of Economy and Regional Development said the agreement that Vojvodina belongs to 90% of NIS sales is against the law. The Privatisation Act clearly states that half of the assets of the sale of a company located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina belong to the Republic and that the other half belongs to the province. When you have already decided that you are changing the current Privatisation Act through the 2009 draft budget, then the proposal that 90% of the assets belong to the province is not realistic, and at least it is not fair. In addition, gas stations are located in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, if this is the only criterion that the NIS is on the territory of Vojvodina, so I remind you that there are a large number of pumps in each city, and NIS is also not a company whose founder is the AP Vojvodina, but a state-owned company. I propose that 5% of these 90% of NIS sales be focused on funding multi-purpose development projects in the area of Serbia's two poorest districts. Furthermore, when the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, spoke about the 2009 draft budget at the start of the principle debate, several days ago, he stressed that the draft budget was based on three main principles. The first principle is the principle of community or unity, said Mr Cvetkovic, that all parties have accepted this concept of the budget and are behind it. Unity exists among the parties in the government. A few days ago, however, Minister Dinkic told the government the following -- that the government is late in measures to overcome the economic crisis, i.e. the global financial crisis expected in Serbia, and that it is late in these measures several months. Furthermore, Mr Dinkic said that the government of the Republic of Serbia acts as a divided orchestra, so there is no harmony of tone, that since October we have a crisis of authority in the government and that it has never felt worse in any government or state institution. When Mr Dinkic says so, then we have to trust him, because since 2000, Mr Dinkic has been or the governor, so he was a member of a state institution, or a head of state or a minister in the government. So he must know what he's talking about. It's about the first principle. The second principle on which this budget was made is the principle of solidarity. Which actually means that in the realisation of this budget, everyone has to bear their share of responsibility and they're all carrying their share of the burden, so that we can all be easier together. With this amendment, I earnestly advocate this principle, that is, the principle of solidarity. If such a draft of the budget is adopted and this Article 5 remains, some in Serbia will be easy, some will be easier, and some will be very well, and some will not. Serbia is one of the countries with the largest regional differences in Europe. The state must pay more attention to even-regional development, as this is the condition for strengthening the integration of the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. According to the developmental hazard index, the relationship between Serbia's most developed and underdeveloped district is 1:7. I read what the threat index is, in fact, it means that when you take the starting point of the most developed district, then the least developed in Serbia means that it is the most underdeveloped seven times poorer, i.e. that the standard of living and the overall state in that district is seven times worse than what is thought to be the most developed. When compared to the local level, certain cities, then you have cities that the unit is the best place to live, and that the one in which the worst lives is 15 times worse, or that 15 times poorer by all indicators. The Regional Development Strategy was adopted in 2007 for the period from 2007 to 2012. This is the first time that some document in a comprehensive way looks at all the problems and disparities that have arisen in the past and predicts a series of measures, there is even an Action Plan to solve these problems. On the website of the Fund for Development of Serbia, you have a list of cities and municipalities in Serbia that are classified in certain groups, according to certain criteria. There's a large group of cities, not even, I think, cities, but certainly municipalities that are underdeveloped. The criteria were applied, such as the population income per capita for 2005, then the average income of employees in that place, the number of unemployed in relation to population, depopulations, i.e. A reduction in population, ranging from census to census, means from 1991 to 2002. According to these criteria and on the Development Fund website, you can all see, when it comes to the Pyrot County, municipalities are undeveloped: Bela Palanka, Babusnica and Dimitrovgrad. So Pirotski County has a total of four municipalities, no city. Only Pirot doesn't belong to a group of underdeveloped. When it comes to the Pcinj County, then the situation is next, the undeveloped municipalities are Vladic's Han, Bosilegrad, Surdulica, Trgovište, Bujanovac and Presevo. Therefore, the only city of Vranje does not belong to that group of extremely underdeveloped cities, namely seven cities in the Pcinj County, six cities are considered undeveloped. For example, the average salary of White Palanca employees, the town of Piroth County, was 13,300 dinars in August this year. Unemployment in Dimitrovgrad, which is in the Pyrot County, and in the Shop, which is in the Pcinj County, is about 30%, while, for example, unemployment in some districts or cities that, thank God, better standing is about five or six percent. So in Belgrade, it is thought that there are four out of five working people unemployed. In these areas, we have a very pronounced depopulation, i.e. the number of residents from censuses to censuses, in some cities even up to 20%, which, since some cities we say are borderline, are located at the borders, there is also a question of Serbia's security. To conclude, the Serbian government must not refer to certain areas as a mother, and to some areas as a stepmother. So the amendment proposed that 5% of these funds be used to finance the development projects of the two poorest districts in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11670	The word is from Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to comment on this amendment by Mrs. Donka Banovic, and the story could in general apply to all amendments submitted by the DSS in the context that the NIS privatisation funds of 5% are foreseen for some municipalities. I come from the Pcinj County and believe me that 90% of the resources from the privatisation of NIS are spent, or committed to the Pcinj County, I don't think it would be enough to put things on their feet, that is, to make it look like something the people would say. It takes a lot more, but it needs to be rational and reasonable, I don't think 5% would be bad either. Let's start at the beginning. I think that the proposings of these amendments have tried to show their commitment to the concept of equal regional development, but for the concept of equal regional development, it is certainly not enough to define the resources, it is necessary to create all the preconditions that these funds in municipalities, on the ground, in regions or subregion are spent in one adequate way. I will touch through my story and something Mr. Martinovic opened and touched this morning, it certainly refers to spatial plans, and I also commented on something in principle. I would also touch on what Mr. Dulic said at the time, and I think it is very important for you and that one more quality and different attitude of this government towards the concept of equal regional development, from the aspect of spatial planning above all, would make a different impression on this country and the picture of the same. There have been a lot of words today when we talk about the budget that the budget is developmental, social and restrictive. I think the luxury is to define the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009 as you defined it in the Government and that luxury could possibly be in this situation in the world, perhaps in Europe, could only afford Norway. The question is whether or not she can, but objectively every serious state of these three components, because of the economic opportunities that await us, would certainly not allow themselves to define it that way. One question arises - what can the budget be defined as developmental through the structure of the budget? Where do you see that? What does the budget define? What also defines what defines the government of the Republic of Serbia's intensities in 2009 to act in a developmental sense? I agree that opportunities are bad and that opportunities from the world will be repainted with us, but life in Serbia can't stop because of that. This Serbia and this country must project themselves somewhere in 2010, both in 2011 and 2012. But the story can't just come down to the story. We'll be there then. There's something in the field that needs to be done. It needs to be concrete. It needs this people to feel anything on the ground. Then we come up with a story about spatial planning. Why do I insist on spatial planning? What is a pleasure to me, I must point out one fact from this pay phone, the need and importance of spatial planning in these last two or three days, only the MPs and MPs who have had the opportunity to manage and manage at the level of local self-government. We have shown our commitment in these places to be able to recognize what is of strategic and essential importance. We didn't bring our political action down to just a mere story, to distracting the people, to do something concrete. These moves are moves of long-term character, but at one point, because of those who come after us, they will certainly give effects and will deliver results. What happened was that Mr. Dulic came out, I can't say that it's not good, it's a good thing that finally in one government in the last eight years someone from this pay phone said that the government was going to circulatory, i.e. local environments, impose as a commitment to spatial, strategic and design documentation. Let's say the deadline is reasonable, 18 months, let's say it's reasonable. It's a job, it's a job, it's a job, it's a job, it's a job, it's a job, it's a job, it's a job, it's a job, it's a job, But then what happens? The remainder of the sentence follows, we got so much money and certainly it won't be enough. We are not ready today, and you as politicians of the pro-European period, are not ready to define the means to define the social, economic, cultural, demographic, tourism and any other development of this country in the perspective. What can anyone seriously expect from you? What can anyone in the world seriously expect from you? Can anyone in the EU, who you're so keen on, get the impression of a serious state? Of course he can't. Here's an example from the environment. Bulgaria could not spend money on pre-accession funds. You know why? Because she didn't have the capacity to do it. They were not ready to accept EU money and pre-accession funds. This is where the same picture is repeated. You're not interested in it, we're dealing with the verse, we're doing politics from today to tomorrow, and that's not good. I said at the beginning of my story, even if 90% of the resources from the privatisation of NIS came to the Pcinski and Pirotski district, the question is how much of that money could be spent in a quality and rational way. Because we've lost eight years, you've lost eight years, you've done nothing to get those two districts ready to spend money in one adequate way, a way that will ensure economic stability, development and the way you can count on part of Serbia to provide funds, so that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is also a developmental character. What were you doing? It happens to us that for the municipalities for which we have spatial and planning documentation that also in these municipalities there are hiducia. That's what Mr. Martinovic was talking about this morning. A spatial plan which has the power of the law is forced to achieve one's personal interests, financial interests or interests of some groups. What's the point? Is this responsible state behavior? Of course not, but there's a question of whether it's worth saying. This is, above all, addressed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not to you sitting here. But certainly for the government of the Republic of Serbia, those who are the holders of the executive government in Serbia. Where to recognize the government's responsibility in this context. Of course she's not here. Then he comes and says the minister -- we will, but we didn't get the funds. They did not receive funds, and limiting factors - Krkobibic and Dinkic. When it comes to strategic matters, there is no limit, there are no limiting factors, but it is obvious that the awareness of it, in the good part of the executive government, has not yet matured. What happens next? Take a look at the case of the Surdulics municipality. It's exactly in the Pcinian County. I can't say that things are great, but we, in terms of making these strategic and planning documents, the development foundations, have gone the farthest in southern Serbia. We have almost everything finished. There's no money. In the budget rebalancing for four urban plans, the government took our funds, took the money. They think it doesn't matter. No development without it, every serious one needs to know and it needs to be accepted. Let's say Surudulica has a barracks, watch out for the concept of state, 30 and a few acres in town. After the bombing to this day, a billion and a half dinars were invested into that barracks to restore it, and then the state moved out of the army and left everything. That sounds empty. So there'll be no end, they'll come and dig up the barracks and the boiler room from the barracks, and they'll take it to the base on the Cepotin, which is made. Now it's all going down like that. The municipality launched, in a previous session, an initiative, talks with the competent state authorities to make use of it, that for this area, which we will put into office economically, offer investors, for example, to offer to the military apartments through some long-term loans or jobs; the state's hearing is gone. And don't get a chance to decide on it by the Serbian Property Directorate. They've been there for nine years. It's a picture of today's executive government in Serbia. Then we talk about Europe, development, concept, standards, etc. Here is another example - The Law on the financing of local self-government, Article 36 provides for the Republic to grant a unit of local self-government revenue from the fees incurred on the territory of the unit of local self-government, in accordance with the law, and this: compensation from the use of forest and water use charges. Amazing water resources and potential are located in the municipality from which I come. Then what happens? Then the government takes it and lays down a regulation that deprives the right to use those funds. In the municipality from which I come, water resources are used for commercial purposes, water factories, Coca-Cola is there, and Vlassin hydropower plants are there. An incredible income, based on the use of natural resources from my municipality, can remain in Surdulica, but no, it all flows into Belgrade, into the government of the Republic of Serbia, to the budget in Belgrade. How much of that money local self-government uses, it's a story for itself and for some other occasion, but I believe we'll still have a chance to talk in the budget. Therefore, there is no real, good and quality definition of the executive authority in Serbia for equal regional development, it does not exist. Even any amendments to adopt, regardless of who tolerates them, are objectively questioned how ready you are to implement what you accept through the amendments, through time and on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11672	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Vladimir Milentijevic has the word, and the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11673	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the draft budget, for the AP Vojvodina in position 5, has proposed that, exclusively from Article 61. The privatisation law, the AP Vojvodina budget, belongs to 90%, the Republic of Serbia's budget 10% of NIS sales. Not that she violated the Privatisation Act in Article 61, but I believe that, in this case, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been violated, because in Article 182. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 2, clearly states that the Republic of Serbia has two APs. My colleague, Mrs. Donka Banovic, has made a good argument that, roughly, this government treats someone as a mother and some as a stepmother. This is an obvious example when KIM is at stake, because however laws come in the Assembly, they clearly show that the state of Serbia is behavioural. That this is exactly the wording of the draft budget for Kosovo and the KIM ministry. For the KIM ministry, the budget was reduced by 36% compared to 2008. Is there another ministry where the total budget for next year is reduced by 36%? I don't think there is. In this regard, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(5), which reads: "The budget of the AP Vojvodina belongs to 85%, the budget of the Republic of Serbia 10% of the sale of NIS, and the other 5%, according to the government's special programme, to define for the development of AP KIM municipalities". In his exposé, the Prime Minister concluded that this budget is restrictive and developmental. It's obviously highly restrictive for KiM. That it's developed, it's not, because it contains only about 50 million for complete development, and it's in the KIM Ministry division, and I haven't noticed in other ministries that the funds for development have been allocated. For these reasons, I asked for these 5% of NIS sales to municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. We have the biggest budget savings at the KIM Ministry, which is 36%, to repeat once again, compared to last year, and this is about the pay cut. What will be the effects of the pay cut, I will say that when there is a debate in detail on Article 5, where I have my amendment. I'm going to tell you about how much savings on salaries and savings in the Ministry of KIM total savings were made on AP KIM territory. The budget for the KIM ministry has been cut by two billion and 200 million dinars. The ministries have cut their budget by about a billion and 600 million, without the health ministry, and it is assumed that, since I do not have the exact data, the same budget is reduced by a billion and 600 million. It is a total of five billion and 400 million lower budgets for AP KIM territory. Given that this Article 4 does not provide for any KIM money, in that sense I have submitted this amendment and I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept it. Otherwise, do not be angry when we point out the view behind this speaker that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is only favouring KIM declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11674	Mrs. Verica Radeta has a word for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, well just now, my colleague Stevanovic said that the real question is, in fact, whether it is worth talking to the government of the Republic of Serbia at all about these amendments and whether it is for the purpose of submitting amendments. If you on just one member, the same position as that member, have 15-20 amendments and you have no hearing, to say what your opinion is, except for what someone in the service formally wrote in an explanation, then that's really a problem. I have to remind you that ten days ago we were here discussing that set of judicial laws, where there was an incredible number of 120 and some amendments to only 19 members of the law. We talked and talked, but it never touched anyone in the ruling coalition, nor in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Simply, the representatives of the government sitting here show that the government has no hearing or interest in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, which we, the MPs, are transferring here, or what the MPs think about the government's draft laws. Mrs Dragutinović, this is nothing personal. You are one of the ministers who respects the National Assembly so much that it sits neatly all these hours as we do, but you're about to act on that people's "dog barks, wind carries," you don't care what we say, you don't care if we speak Serbian citizens. You will stay here for as long as we sit, in the end you will give us a lecture and that will be the end, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be as you have drawn it. Of course, it's all on condition that there's a budget vote at all, because the basic question is whether it's any use that we're wasting our time at all, now this is probably the 35th amendment in a row, of the 230s possible, how many there are. And not to take a break from now on until the end of the session, which is December 29th at midnight, it is hardly possible to discuss these amendments. The team is then an interesting issue that the government's representative does not want any more normal contact between the opposition MPs and the government of the Republic of Serbia at all. Of course, that only confirms what we have been saying for days, that you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not want to bring the budget. Because if you wanted to, then we would have that budget here on November 1st, and we got it, we have to remind the citizens of Serbia, that they are MPs, that this parliament has received the draft budget from 40 days late and that no one in the government of Serbia, nor in the ruling majority has the moral right to accuse anyone from the opposition of potential budget failure. I can't say no more, because the deadline was December 15th, when it couldn't have been over, because it was the previous session, and we got the budget six or seven days before that legal deadline when the budget was due, or when the budget had to be adopted. Therefore, the question of interest is raised and what is the real motive, Mrs Dragutinovic, why do you not want the budget to be passed? Is that what's written in the papers, how much the ministry got, who circled his empire and didn't let it get down, because this new budget would reduce the resources that many ministers would have. That's why it's more appropriate for you to make a decision on temporary funding and that at least another period you use those funds that we don't actually have in the country. There'll be a chance and there'll be time to talk more about it. How did I understand the amendment of my colleague from the DSS to the final position of Article 4? I believe that all colleagues who have submitted these amendments have the awareness that this amendment does not comply with the Constitution. Their amendments do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but before that, the final position of Article 4 is unconstitutional. It's a bill of law. It is simply amazing that one of you has come to mind that, in order to please, I do not know whose, I will not bid, you know, we all know, and the public of Serbia, in order to satisfy the appetites of some MPs and some of their political views, so that when the vote comes to the budget, you will provide these 126 votes, you are prepared to break the Constitution in the most harsh way possible. It was unconstitutional, Mrs Dragutinovic, that counterpart Krasic spoke more than once about you changing the Privatisation Act with the Budget Act. It's not under the sky, ask any lawyers on the globe, and everyone will tell you it's impossible. Normally, the consequence is that all these amendments are to actually draw your attention that you can't force any city, that you can't force any district, any autonomous province at the expense of anyone else, and especially not at the expense of the Constitution and at the expense of the law. What did you do? Why did I report for my colleague Vladimir Milentijevic's amendment regarding Kosovo and Metohija? counterpart Milentijevic suggested that part of these funds from the sale of NIS be deployed 5% to the municipalities of AP Kosovo and Metohija. First of all, it's amazing that you didn't foresee at the beginning the funds to be received from the sale of NIS, that you didn't put them in total funds and that you deployed them as well as all other assets without exception, without exemption from Article 61. The Privatization Act. It would certainly have been more justly allocated then, and then it wouldn't have happened what, mildly speaking, inappropriately, irresponsiblely, and I don't know what term to use, is too mild for what you, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have done. You predicted 3.9 billion dinars for Kosovo and Metohija for 2009 instead of last year's 6.2 billion dinars. That's inadmissible. No matter what economic crisis we are in, no matter what difficult situation the state is in, people living in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs and other non-Albanians, as you call them in this explanation, who live in Kosovo and Metohija, must have their country's concerns, they must feel their country's concerns. You have no right, no one in this country has the right to have these people, who are all kinds of down there oppressed by terrorist daily attacks, by this open occupation of the Eulex that you've allowed, yet puts them in a position to come to the brink of social misery, to come to the level that they have nothing to eat. The state must, if you've missed all of this by now, and you shouldn't have, above all, allowed Eulex to come to Kosovo and Metohija, but if you've allowed it all, then you shouldn't have let those people, Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, have nothing to eat, even if it was to the detriment of everyone else. If there is some part of Serbia to favour through this budget, then it is Kosovo and Metohija. People living in Kosovo and Metohija must understand, at least somewhere and at least in some way, that they are in the state of Serbia, that they have their own government, the Serbian government and that someone here takes care of them. You yourself wrote in an explanation something that is devastating. You say, in Kosovo and Metohija, in very difficult conditions, in scattered enclaves, without freedom of movement, you yourself say, the rest of them live in 146.297 Serbs and non-Albanians. The question is, how accurate is this number? You further say, according to official data from the province's Red Cross organization of Kosovo and Metohija, of the number 8.296 families, i.e. the user lives in a constant state of need for humanitarian aid and their existence depends practically on it. It's the same help. What are you offering now? To solve that problem, you humiliate these people. You say that through the budget, you will provide funds to get 22,000 pieces of food and 22,000 pieces of hygiene packages. So these families, which you yourself wrote about being existentially dependent on humanitarian aid, can be satisfied and happy, the state of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia has provided them with three packages of food and three packages of hygiene within a year. If they were three food clippers and three hygienists, it's not enough for a year, let alone three packages, which will eventually be some packets. It's terrible and it's devastating. I don't think he'll get what Alexander Martinovic brought here in those packages, what you've been campaigning to share with the citizens to vote for you. For those packages, you had to single out, and these people, instead of giving them money, giving them as much money as it takes to survive, now informing them, reading what you wrote, can count on three packages of annual food and three packages of annual hygiene. Mrs Dragutinovic, the government of the Republic of Serbia is seriously and dangerously playing with Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian southern province. You don't need to take this personally, but as a member of the government, you certainly do. You're all equally responsible, because if someone in this government thought differently, if someone in this government thought that they needed more consideration to take care of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, then someone would come out and say that. You've been talking about and showing up in the paper, and I'm not letting the ministers in person, and I'm not letting someone in my ministry give me less money, not that Sutanovac, not that Dinkic, not that this one, not that everyone is fighting to get as much funds in their ministries as possible through the budget. This means mostly, we'll see when we talk about Article 5, they spend on wages, it's spent on travel, it's spent on some work contracts, etc. There is no citizen, no people, no interest in those who are filling this budget, there is nowhere to be seen in which way you intend to return to the citizens of Serbia (President: Time. I'm done, thank you... what they put in the budget. To cover this story about this article 4, last position, accept the amendment of Aleksandr Martinovic and at least in this part you will do something that is at least in the scale of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11676	Thank you. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Obradovic, and Mr. Krasic has also signed up under this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11677	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have seen from these previous amendments, the DSS MPs wanted to point to one of the serious problems that Serbia has at the moment, to huge differences in the level of development, and as a result there is a huge outflow of the population, all the way to the axis of Novi Sad - Belgrade - Nis. The largest amounts of investment are in the three cities, and above all in Belgrade, the largest number of people are in those places and any idea of reducing that difference has actually increased these differences. Every new fund that was to remove differences in the level of development was in fact only attracting additional funds, primarily in Belgrade, and then in these other major cities, because the capacity to attract investment is the most in those cities. Our idea was to point out what kind of problems there are in certain parts of Serbia, and since the government has submitted an amendment to the proposed text of the law, which provides that only after the adoption of the Vojvodina Statutes and only after the adoption of the accompanying laws that will be precisely defined, when the exact funds to be transferred to Vojvodina are determined, and based on the jurisdiction that Vojvodina will then have, it will also determine how much part of the budget or how much the Vojvodina budget will be. Our amendment with the correction suggested that all differences in resources from such defined funds go to Serbia's budget, and that according to the government's special programme, primarily taking into account the state of infrastructure in the cities and municipalities of Serbia, the level of social protection and regional development problems, that these funds be allocated to the cities of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11678	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. Mr. Krasic has a word. Excuse me, please. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11679	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, as there were 16 amendments with a similar content, mainly concerned the redistribution of funds belonging to a 5% Vojvodina, aimed at developing different undeveloped regions, as someone who is undeveloped is actually undivided, in this form for the Government is a completely acceptable amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11680	Thank you, Madam Minister. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Arsen Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11681	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for accepting the amendment of MP Milos Aligrudic and to express the satisfaction that cities and municipalities in Serbia, thanks to the DSS amendments, will receive certain funds from the sale of NIS. I've submitted an amendment to Article 4, too, since I'm from the Goldibor County. This amendment predicted that 5% of the NIS sales were defined for the town of Užice and all municipalities on the territory of the Zlatibor district. Of course, all in order to achieve equal regional development, because there are many projects that have been launched, whose realisation has been initiated by NIP funds or local self-government funds, and I think these funds will be continued and implemented in 2009. If my amendment is not accepted, I hope that some of the towns and municipalities of the Zlatibor County will find space in this programme and in the previous amendment of MP Milos Aligrudic, so I would just like to say what these projects are, several of the most important projects in the territory of the Zlatibor County. These are certainly the end of the gasification in the municipalities of Čajetina and Kosjerić and the further continuation of the gasification of the municipalities of Priboj, Prijepolje, Nova Varoš and Sjenica, then the end of the rehabilitation of the Ponikova airport, which is very important for all municipalities in Zlatibor County, the construction of a water network for the municipality of Kosjerić, which has major problems in water supply, the construction of a bypass around Užica and the bypass around Požega, the construction of local roads. The Zlatibor County is very promising when it comes to tourism development, there are Zlatibor, Tara, Zlatar, Mokra Gora with great natural resources and potentials. I think these infrastructure investments in the Zlatibor County can attract new investors, which will certainly contribute to the opening of new investments, the opening of new businesses, new jobs and the overall development of the entire Zlatibor district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11682	Thank you, Mr. Guric. Mr. Zoran Krasic has a word for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11683	Now the citizens of Serbia have seen that the resilient opposition can produce some result, but if so, then I guess we didn't need to convince you for three days. We're three days behind in Europe for the government. If you'd said that this morning, it wouldn't have been a problem, but you're persistent, stubborn, proud, you're making your own way. Without the intention of demeaning or ruining what has already been achieved by accepting, I understood that this applies not only to Milos Aligrudic's amendment, but to all these amendments, because they are practically sublimed in that amendment, but I would have to draw your attention. Mrs Dragutinović, listen to me, you can comment, I'm resilient. You see, you, as Government, have submitted several amendments to the draft budget law. The first amendment refers to Article 2 where you add a new position and for this discussion is an interesting amendment to the third. Serbian citizens should understand what the law on the budget system means. Some deadlines have been prescribed to speed up the government by 15 December, I think, have passed a budget law and then a procedure in the Assembly starts from 1 November to 15 December. It's been 40 days late here, and we've been convincing the government for a few days, and they've now accepted, so they've eaten us for 45-46 days. They're obstructing because they don't fit the budget. Now I'm going to show you. Anything that's fast, it's short, you know. Here's proof of that. Mrs Dragutinović, as part of Article 1. The III formulate something like a difference called the budget deficit. Do you agree? That's 49,900, almost 50 billion. This is what is not covered, which has no real sources, cannot be covered by excises, taxes, etc. It's covered by debt and credit, but it's not covered by taxes. Now we're going to get a member who covers, this is a member who discovers. The member covering that unsecured part is Article 2. Article 2 now has two bets. The first position, for us at this point, is: it needs funds to finance the results, or budget deficit, which is set out in Article 1 of this law and contains the budget deficit first, that is 28 billion, and this second, 21 billion, is a total of 29 billion. You said no money, no taxes, taxes, customs, etc., we'll have to resort to some of the alternative funds. It's alternative medicine in finance. What did you put as the first means? Privatization receipts. Now make contact with Article 4 of Section 5, which we've been talking about for five hours. That's what it turns out, Mrs Dragutinovic, that the AP budget is a deficit. Why the deficit? Because you're covering it from the privatisation income. You wrote - extremely from article 61. The privatisation law, the AP Vojvodina budget, is 90% and the Republic of Serbia's budget 10%. So 360m euros is a budget deficit, which is a dedicated budget deficit for Vojvodina, according to government thinking. However, you forgot that there is a member of 183th and a member of the 184th bi-bip act, so that I would not get a reminder, which is above all this, which says: the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the Serbian budget, with 3/7 of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. Where do you get at least 7%? In the budget. Where do you get that money? On the revenue side. It is possible to provide credit for the Republic of Serbia's budget, but there is no intentional degradation, and you're saying that in the era when it is due to adopt the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, you DS are making superhuman efforts, so you're detaching the 360m-euro dedicated funds to fill in the administration's holes, not the citizens of Vojvodina. I think, Mr. Jojic, that compared to 2000, the administration in the Autonomous Region has increased three or two times three and a half times. This is who eats our money: the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Executive Council of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. The whole story is based on principle -- these cobajagi planned the deficit, the budget of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, and then it takes two statesmen, Mirko Cvetkovic and Bojan Pajtic to sit down, so they say -- we agreed, that's settled, Neso, be calm, you get SPENS, you stay calm, you get a little bit of NIS, you get a place on the board, everything's gonna be okay. Now the government has seen that in the game with Bojan Pajtic, they have overplayed and are now allegedly accepting this amendment. However, the government's amendment to Article 4 has remained, so this is no longer 90 - 10%, but the new amendment gives it two new positions. If you've adopted this attitude 4, we don't know what's left? If you've adopted their amendment to item 5, then what about your views, new attitudes 5 and 6? Here's what it says -- you said it's replaced by 5 new positions 4 and 5. It says - it remains 90 - 10, but you say - until the entry into force of the new statute of the AP Vojvodina and the law governing matters of the province, the AP Vojvodina budget is allocated 50% of the NIS and the remaining 40 when this law is passed. And by intervention in Article 2, where you put a new position 2, you say -- by implementing the Republic's budget, you can't increase the result, meaning deficit, means 50 billion, you won't be in debt anymore, so you shouldn't, but it doesn't matter, you're repeating what's in Article 1, you're increasing it, it says -- after transferring jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina, based on this virtual statute, it won't work out for you here, you know that yourself, or by any other basis. And then Nenadu Canka is opposed to the IMF in an explanation. The IMF is a higher authority than Mirko Cvetkovic, and he will stop the appetites of Nenada Canka and his group. Now, I'm this little bit, to make it clear to the viewers, to show the operation, to the impossible mission, what can be done to relativize everything or even disenfranchise it. The whole story of the statutes and these members of the budget relating to the AP comes down to the Duchy of Bojan Pajtic. There's a duke here too. He doesn't care about that duke being a little stronger. That Duke of Vojvodina says -- well, you know, I bring a large number of votes to the DS in a collection, and it has to be kind of verified, if you didn't let me be Prime Minister, it has to be paid. Now that you're adopting, apparently, this amendment, I don't know what it's legally technically going to look like in the budget, it's going to be freakish. With your amendments and with this which you have adopted, you enter a grain of no distinction, enter a topic to be chewed on throughout 2009. That way, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be derailed, remember. In the existing Article 4, not counting this last position, there was a system present that has been repeating itself in our budgets for years, Mrs Dragutinovic. What are the original incomes? What's in the budget, what's the Republic agreeing? Look out, you've crossed some lines. By crossing that line, you come to a situation where the state is now. The concession law doesn't apply, because someone promised. The law on ratification of the agreement with Russia is widely accepted because of elections for some no longer apply. Then in the distribution you exactly support that parole -- whose sheep, where our money is, it's all there. I would recommend how to treat that autonomic syndrome. For example, Nenad Canak could pay electricity at European electricity prices coming from abroad. I don't know how long it's gonna be. It's like a sobering agent. Someone before you represented the concept of regionalization, so when he saw it was a dangerous line, he gave up the regionalization project. Bosko Ristic is a late edition of such a policy, if you're already telling me about Bosko Ristic. He's extremely wrapped up in this policy and you're not going to support that policy as DS. I know that, but you don't know, so you're putting Bosko Ristic in this story completely unnecessary. He served with that story for something else, to get these from Vojvodina, but you can't figure it out. I don't know how you think you're getting out of this vicious circle of unconstitutional presence in your political definition of how to look at the budget. I showed you through the art analysis. One, two and four, the final position, that you saw something as a budget deficit. You have no right to look at it in the light of the provisions of the article. 183rd and 184th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is above all laws. You can do whatever you want to write in the budget law, you are bound by the Constitution of Serbia. The constitution makes it clear - 7% in relation to the Republic of Serbia's budget and three weeks for capital investments. Even what 7% is at least, like the bottom threshold set. Of course, these factors for balanced regional development should be respected and you must make sure that the sale of NIS is not the same as when the sale of "dragon" or "record" Rakovica. This is state capital from the beginning. Is this a privatisation or a sale of state capital? This is a state capital sale. All funds provided by government capital are entered into the budget, and the budget must be spent on positions according to these items. As you set off, you could also treat the AP Vojvodina as transfer funds. It's being treated, except it's not in the community area, it's where the autonomous province is. You listened to the government of Milentievich. He gave you a serious warning. Do not forget that there are two autonomous provinces in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11684	Thank you, Mr. Krasic, for the sixth address in 15 minutes. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11685	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, we in particular pointed out that the 2009 draft budget law primarily treats revenues as unrealistic, to predict a major deficit of 50 billion. We've pointed out a problem that exists with the possibility of paying off a loan in the next year of 40 billion dinars. Mr Djelic said that in the budget, i.e. the vault is missing 25 billion at the moment, but that is the problem you will have to face in the coming year. The DSS MPs have submitted amendments, trying to fix this bill. I'm sorry you didn't accept my amendment to Article 1, which reduces this budget deficit. I'm sure you'll accept the amendment I filed with you. 5, where I foresee higher funds for the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion, and yesterday you promised me that you would accept an amendment to Article 6 relating to the reduction of subsidies for public non-financial enterprises and organisations, on behalf of social contributions to employees, and above all I think of employees in local self-governments. By amendment to Article 4, on which the DSS submitted a series of amendments and which apparently resulted in you accepting the DSS amendment, I tried to provide greater funds for municipalities - Gornji Milanovac, Luciani, Ivanica, for the town of Cačak, as well as for the town of Kragujevac, the municipality of Arangelovac, Topola, Knic, Batocino, Rač and Lapovo. It's a good thing you're here to talk to DSS MPs. I think we have convinced you to accept our amendment and it is a great pleasure that the amendment of counterpart Aligrudic has been accepted by the government. I hope that the ruling majority in the voting day will have an understanding -- that they will indeed vote this amendment, because it is not necessary to repeat how much the DSS cares about balanced regional development and, what is also our intensity, is that in December, of course, and in the following year, first and foremost fill in the transfer funds needed by local self-governments for their normal functioning. The fact is that we really don't trust the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, but we believe his statement he made a few days ago that the Privatisation Act was violated and that it is unrealistic that 90% of the income from NIS belongs to Vojvodina. We really have nothing against the citizens of Vojvodina, we just want to point to the fact that Serbia exists under Sava and Danube. Thank you very much for accepting our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11686	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Jovan Damjanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11687	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when we look at next year's budget, where there are both restrictions and rebalancing, and most of the restrictions for next year for the budget will hit the poorest, the poorest and the poorest of the majority people, and the poorest of the poorest is the Roma people. The Roma will remain, as they say, in social misery, as they have been so far for eight, nine years. There's no extra money in the budget for this year for the Roma. There are no development programs, there's nothing that would bring this people into a human and normal state for their lives and co-existence with their families. When we look at today how interested or uninterested the state is, we have an animal asylum. I personally have nothing against animals. We have a lot of them in the house of animals, and cats, and dogs and other animals, because we have lots of grandchildren, although I'm not saying we don't need to worry about animals -- it's interesting to take more care of animals, dogs and cats, but of a Roma people living on the edge of misery, life and death. It's terrible how everything happens, and we don't have access to the Roma community at least as much as possible, so that it can be revitalised in normal flows and live. It's no problem to make certain shifts in the Roma community, absolutely not. In the Assembly of Local Self-Government, the Zemun presidency offered the Minister of Capital Investments to Velimir Ilic to set up several installation houses, and that the municipality would give the country and complete infrastructure, there were some floods. Minister Velimir Ilic absolutely accepted it and made there a dozen-fifth houses and now Roma families live integrated, like everyone else. I'm surprised it hasn't been done yet. I apologize, but I must say, here sits Parliamentarian Vitomir Mihajlovic, who is the People's MP of the Sandzak Democratic Party, whom I highly appreciate and respect, as well as the whole of the SRS. To this day, even though the Roma people live in the greatest misery, they have not come out here to say a word. When it comes to the budget for the underdeveloped, for the poor, he didn't say a word. As far as discrimination against the Roma is concerned, he was on TV and said that discrimination against the Roma has been done and that he has experienced it on his skin. We can't do that, Mr. Michaelovich, you're not the opposition, you're the position. You're blaming the government where you're a member of the Parliament - it's nowhere to be found. If there were discrimination, I would confirm it here. I'm not saying there are no cases, absolutely there are, but there is generally no discrimination against the Roma people in the Republic of Serbia. If that's discrimination you had verbally with the police, that's your problem. There are cases, I'm not saying there isn't, absolutely there is, and I appeal to the MUP to make, as they say, some structures to change, to get reorganize, to set up people who won't come to such a conflict not only with the Roma, but also with other nationalities. Just to tell you that the other day in Valjev police were harassing two young people of Serbian nationality, a majority people, so she asked them to do pushups, and I don't know, harassed them. A Serb boy was beaten up in Arangelovac. In the White Church, four police officers went into another cop's restaurant, so they made a mess-- they got into a fight, they broke up. I think she's from an Aryan girl who's operated on her leg not sick, but healthy. God forbid they were Roma -- that's what the whole world would hear, all NGOs would stand on their feet. You're a government man, you should defend this country and this people. The Roma people to whom you and I belong, and to work on all those programs that will make life easier and give a better life to the Roma people. You were a member of the Democratic Party, I'm not getting into why the DS shut you down. That's your problem, not mine. You've moved on to Ljajic, that's your problem again, not ours. We appreciate and respect every party, whether it's a position or an opposition. We don't have any pretents, and we always act right. I wonder, Mr. Mihajlovic, during the election you told the Roma all the benefits, you had hundreds of thousands of packages to share, to vote for you and the political party you belong to, Rasim Ljajic-SDP. You promised both roads, and schooling, and social assistance and building apartments. What's up with that? There's nothing. You lied to everyone. I ask you now, when the New Year's Packages are assigned what are you doing there, it's a shame, you don't give kids a New Year's present to rejoice, what manipulations are you making here? There are packages, there are no packages. Why are you making people come to me? Go to the Radical Party, go to Jovan Damjanovic, go to Ashref Ramadanovic, share packages only for SDP. You can't share kids on the political line, it'll come back to you and it's not nice. As for the SRS, you forget who saved your house in Zemun from falling, you got the solution to collapse? Your children, your grandson, whom I greatly respect and respect, as well as my children. The SRS gave me a warrant to go there and react so your house wouldn't crash and your house wouldn't collapse. You say now - go to the SRS. The SRS gave your child and your family life. The SRS has done historicly what no political party in this country has done. I'm telling the truth, this isn't manipulation. There's no label here, I'm just telling the truth. She gave us life, infrastructure, electricity, asphalting, plumbing, sewerage, employment, construction of a small economy, etc., not only in Zemun, you all know that, but throughout Serbia where we were in power. What's the matter with you? You're fighting for personal interests. Do you know how much crime there is in the National Council and how much crime there is in the Roma Strategy Office? As president of the National Council, you're telling me what's going on, and you don't have the guts to go out for a pay phone and tell me. It's hard to say, it's true, but it's dangerous to keep quiet, Mr. President of the National Council of Roma Serbia. It's terrible what you do, and it's dangerous, for both the people and the state. I haven't responded to any of your criminal acts I've ever known, but you know I've received a letter, I've shown you, I'm wanted by the citizens. We are in the service of the citizens of this country, to do and to do what is the interest of the citizens of this country. I asked you to include the intellectual position of the Roma people in Serbia, not to be members of the National Council, I am not a member of the National Council, nor was I in the Assembly, because I saw the structure and I didn't want to come, and everything I told you, it all came true. You've organized your first session on your own misery. They were judges, lawyers, engineers, and the rest of the highest Roman structure in the country. It's the biggest peak. Where are the other sessions? You have deceived me, and I have deceived the intellectuals in this Serbia. Why are you afraid of educated people, intellectuals at the National Council, where you have people like that? They're who they are, I don't mind, but I'm against crime. You take big money, you buy cars, you make houses, and the people die. You're free to tell him, all I'm saying is true, and I have documents about what I'm saying, and you're welcome to consult. I wonder, Mr. Michaelovich, why, when it comes to saying a word in the interest of the Roma people, are you not here? You're only interested in projects, money, crime and kidnapping and robbery of the Roma people who live, now they lie down, in the morning we don't know if they'll be alive, they won't eat, they won't get dressed, there's no heat, there's nothing, and you're enjoying it. I've never been jealous, I've always lived well, you drive a car, even your secretary drives an Audi 6. You told me, you told me about Ljuan. You're supposed to say here, not me, that there's a crime. Go out and say it. Ljuan Koka gets, you say, 100,000 euros for packages and sends it to associations, cities, 200-400 thousand and then says -- if I sent you 400,000, 200 grand back to me, to get the next project through. That's true and you've told the truth, but I wonder why you don't come out here and comment. Second, we have a terrible crime on the National Council. Where computers are for 870,000 that were bought without a tender, no money, no computers, and we're all normal, we're all good. There's you, Ljuan, etc. What's up with that? What about public works? You were in Nis today, Mr. Mihaylovich, to iron people so they wouldn't make statements. I've already been informed that you were in Nis today. You were, if you weren't, say I was lying. I've got the data, I've got the people's statements, you need to give 16 grand and 13,000 wages, you're giving half. Mr. Pippi charges every employee, 82 people per 1,500 dinars for a phone and 500 dinars for a card that doesn't exist. Instead of 13-16 grand, he gives half. This is what Mr Vasiljković does, all of you, and exactly 14 million you received from the RS budget, you are taking it to yourself. I got the information that you got three million dinars for some project called "It's Hard to Be a Citizen" or something and your colleagues say - the money has arrived, the project hasn't been realised, but there's no money. That's your problem, not mine. Someone's gonna have to go to jail for what you're doing. You are exploiting the most marginal, poorest people in this country. As an MP, the President of the National Council, you are these leaders, leaders must not steal from their people, they must not kidnap, they must not rob. Have there been any changes in the Roma population since you've been here? There's theft, kidnapping and robbery. On behalf of the SRS, and as the MP from the list Dr Vojislav Seselj and as representative of Serbia's Roma, I ask the government of the RS to immediately begin solving Roma problems in accordance with our Constitution and international conventions, in accordance with the human rights of the national Roma minorities in Serbia. It is the employment of Roma in all institutions, free education, social protection, road construction, sewerage, electrification of streets, to show them one-time help in heating, clothing and food and to finally create a plan and programme (President: Mr Damjanović, time. ) for building housing units. Who will be responsible for the Roma, if it is a cold winter, there will be deaths? You will answer, and the Roma from Serbia will take over after the New Year's and Christmas holidays absolutely a big problem in our hands, to solve criminals and kidnapping and exploitation of the Roma people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11688	First, Mr. Vitomir Mihajlovic answered, and then Mrs. Radeta answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11689	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting by Article 103 and also by article. 225 and 226. I do not want to use this public pay phone to personally promote my own party, and I am particularly pleased to belong to that party, as Jovan Damjanovic does here in the Assembly. I do not want to turn the Assembly into a public debate and duel with Mr. Jovan Damjanovic, because my reputation is not to lead a duel with such a man in the Assembly, which serves some other things than those he said here. In particular, the gentleman asked for a statement, today he received information that Ljajic and I went to iron, to Alexinac, about the projects, but it is true that we were in the village of Prcilovica, which was shown on TV the other day, there is a very difficult situation and we took humanitarian aid and new year's packages for children of Roma nationality. The untruths that are here, Jovan Damjanovic, have certainly spoken inappropriately and do not stand, that, first of all, I, as president of the National Council, am running criminal activities at the National Council and that the entire National Council of Roma National Communities is also leading criminal activities in his opinion. First of all, Jovan Damjanovic is not a member of the National Council. It was not because he could not be, for he forged the solution of the organization he represented and therefore could not be a member, that is, an electrician at the electronic congregation. If by any chance he had been involved in the National Council and by any chance tried to help the Roma national community, he would certainly have shown it while, at the time, Mr. Seselj was vice president in the government, and he was minister in the government without portfolios. At the time he was minister to the Roma community, he never contributed anything. I ask him how many Roma he's hired at the time. The National Council of the Roma National Minority since its formation five years ago managed to restore the primate and integrate the Roma national community into Serbia's socio-political life. This has been demonstrated by the fact that Roma are particularly apostropheal in law and are subject to affirmative measures, so that we are just the beginners of all actions that the Roma National Community is leading towards the state of Serbia and practically the National Council is a roof organisation that takes care of the Roma national community. (President: Time. ) What is very important to us is that the National Council, led by me, is working on the ground right now and helping the Roma national community, and does not use a pay phone like Jovan Damjanović does. What is most important to us is that you should know that only last year has been employed somewhere around 600 members of the Roma National Community, on a project of public works, just as criticised by Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11690	Mr. Michaelovich, will you bring the end, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11691	We received a three million project from the Ministry of Health, but its start was scheduled for early 2009. So there's no abuse. Monitoring exists for all projects led by the National Council. Budgetary funds received from the state were also sent to us by Jovan Damjanovic and others, so the National Council is practically a legitimate representative of the Roma National Community. It will always be, whether it's me or someone else, it will carry out projects and include Roma in Serbia's integration and socio-political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11692	Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11693	I reported on the basis of Article 141 but I will say only one sentence, as the SRS's relationship to Roma rights says exactly what you said earlier, that Mr. Jovan Damjanovic was the first and until now the only Roma minister in history. I guess that says enough, and you colleagues who laughed at one of the remarks, to which Mr. Damjanovic will surely answer, I'm surprised you didn't laugh at all the data Mr. Damjanovic brought. But, of course, it's not for laughing. I reported, as I said, on the basis of Article 141: "The search in particular takes place by the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and on the amendments proposed to introduce new provisions, with the total search time for each parliamentary group for each amendment being up to 15 minutes. "I don't understand, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, why you, as well as other representatives of the ruling coalition, need to force us to address the Rules of Procedure, when a completely normal debate is under way. I intervened because of what you just said to my colleague Krasic. You said, "Thank you, Mr. Krasic, for the sixth time in 15 minutes." First of all, you didn't count correctly, my colleague Krasic answered seven times and that's great. counterpart Krasic, along with his DSS colleagues, contributed to the minister's adoption of the amendment. Everything that colleague Krasic here says or any of us is absolutely justified, but what is the point? The point is to ask you now, did counterpart Zoran Krasic in any way violate Article 141(1). The Rules of Procedure because he was speaking according to the amendments, as scheduled here, for 15 minutes? We didn't vote for this Rules of Procedure, if we had this time would be unlimited, as well as the time of the debate, because we don't think the MP should be restricted in any way, but I simply don't understand, I repeat, your need to turn the track from the debate on amendments again to the Rules of Procedure. I just had to react. My colleague Krasic, out of modesty, probably didn't want to, but it's amazing that you might have wanted to commend your colleague Krasic for speaking six times. If that was your intention, please correct yourself, he spoke seven times. I'm sorry, now that I've quoted, I may have exceeded three seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11694	Mrs Radeta, it is quite clear to you as a parliamentary ace, as well as colleagues Krasic, that, in addition to the fact that it is of course very good that we participate, and especially because you contribute to the debate on amendments being a quality, part of the content that Mr Krasic and some other MPs have no direct connection with the amendments. As December 29th, 2400 hours approaches, which is the last time we should vote on the budget, intelligent Mr. Krasic, I have made a practical request that the same quality participates in the work, if possible, more effectively. There are MPs here who also make an extraordinary contribution, but the content of the amendments is explained in a few sentences, a few minutes, and they only touch the subject. You've got it right. It wasn't a tendency to count it correctly, but it was actually my request, which I'm using again and again, as a way to ask all MPs to help work more efficiently, not at the expense of quality, on the contrary. That was the reason. Mr. Jovan Damjanović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11695	Ladies and gentlemen, you have to believe, I have no intention at all, I've even asked for cooperation with him. But that's not possible with him, I would never take this out. I have authority as well as you all have, and you know how much you have and how much I have. I would never abuse this. I also have a code of man and man, and you know, I've shown you. I would never say this if they hadn't sent me this letter. Now listen to what they say: "Dear Brother Damjanovic (I am not a brother, but they call me, what's funny, is it funny), we are gathered together to think about our criminals in the National Council, such as the G17 Plus Bojan affair, so this affair with Vitomir Mihajlovic, Slavko Jovanovic, Dragan and Sofko Vasiljevic from Šapac, Zlatomer Jovanovic and the famous Ljuan Kok. There will be an affair of the century for the murder of our poor and miserable people. Our voice must be heard because we must not reveal our identities, because they are capable of destroying our families just to cover up severe crime. ''It says here, please, the citizen sent me, 'we wonder how the project worth three million dinars, 'it took 14.11.2000, hasn't started yet, and the funds aren't on account. They don't have a financial report for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008. I didn't write this, these are your people from the National Council sent it to me and today they came, you know, because you don't give the kids packages, so I called you. You give 360 packages to the Roma in Zemun, where there are 20,000 Roma. So how many kids are there? You give them 300,000 and you tell them on behalf of the SDP to share. That's terrible. The poorest people who live in the barracks came today to give them 120 packages, harass the citizens, not give the children packages. You're talking about some morale now. But let me tell you, after New Year's Eve, it wasn't up to me, the Roma decided to do something in democratic programs and democratic terms, but it'll be heard and seen. He won't be able to do this anymore. Did you tell me you had a robbery? Where are the 20,000 packages you sold? You say it wasn't me, it's Zika. Did you tell me that? So 20,000 packages sell five euros each, how much is that, please? And you say no crime, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11696	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Shormaz wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11697	There's a guy named Wicca who sold Sartid in time, and he's got everything. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I want to thank you... earning, MP Djokovic as usual, unrequited, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11698	Gentlemen, please do not disturb the speaker and allow him to address the parliament. Please, I'll sentence you, I'm warning you, take care. Here you go, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11699	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the minister for accepting the amendment of the People's MP Milos Aligrudic, which is somewhat correcting this injustice, which, in the proposed government budget, was firstly done, let's say, the regional development of the Republic of Serbia, the even regional development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as what we heard from several statements, particularly Mr Pajtic, about how much the Vojvodina will be handed over by the budget or how much money from the sale of NIS will go, etc. I'm from Podunawa County. I have already spoken several times about these cases, and indeed, if 90% of the NIS's sales were to be handed over or separated for Vojvodina, and without Serbia's entire benefit, it would indeed be one big injustice for all the citizens of this country. This is why it is good that you have accepted that if, after the transfer of competence, the funds are determined to be higher than 7% of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the surplus funds under the special programme of the Government are allocated to cities and municipalities in Serbia, taking care of the state of the infrastructure of local self-government, as well as even regional development. In my time, I said, I have now begun, one of the most valuable factories in Serbia, located in Smederevo, Smederjevo ironworks or Sartid, which has been estimated at $470m by Deloit Tuša, at the time sold for only $23m. But believe it or not, out of that 23 million dollars, Smedereva as the city saw nothing. It was sold in such a way that the first factory was brought into bankruptcy, and then instead of the competent bankruptcy court in Pozarevec, in fact the commercial court in Pozarevec, bankruptcy was conducted by the business court in Belgrade, and we all know what the situation was later and with those arrests of the bankruptcy mafia in the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce was. We've come to the situation that Smederevo even today, and I've been saying that with this pay phone, there's a huge problem, there's a day-to-day because there's been two legal persons in this situation, US Steel, who bought the hardware and everything that was worth it, few people know, but huge land in the space between the metal bridge and the mouth of Morava in Danube, which even according to the European Union's projects is supposed to be the largest cargo port in the Danube, that the Romanian seaport of Constanta, because only so far can ships with sea depth go to that metal bridge. It now belongs to US Steel, although it has nothing to do with their performance, they simply wrote down, they chose what they were going to write down and they wrote down what was worth, and, say, this land that is worth far away, far more than 23 million dollars, for which they paid everything they paid for, now belongs to them, and they have to build some new port, which they can't make, and they keep in the city center an old port, which has no license, or could work there, pollutes the city, damages our infrastructure, etc. I'm saying, it's been going on for years, and it can't be solved, regardless of the pressures of local self-government. Meanwhile, in the whole situation, in the Podunav County, the privatisation process of the maltene has been completed, few companies have remained there that have not been sold, say in Smederev, only that famous formerly agricultural combination "Godomin", which is now the same through the bankruptcy process, could not otherwise. Mostly, in Smederev, the Great Plan, Smederjevska Palanca, more or less privatization was completed as it was completed, but believe it or not, of the 10 companies most exporting to Serbia, three are from the territory of the district, and this US Steel, which is the first exporter currently in our economy, are three meanings of ten. What's the district got to do with it? There's nothing. The budget has, the county doesn't return anywhere near what's coming into the territory of that county, not Smederevo, not the Great Plan, not the Smederjev Palanka really get back what they do in this way, when we look through those transfer funds or through the budget. Just like some other cities, some other environments of subjugation on the territory of that district apparently have as much use as just Smederevo. We have repeatedly and as the DSS advocated the regionalisation of Serbia, remember everyone that it was in our programme, we wanted it to stand in the Constitution as well. One of the things that we gave up during our compromise that we did in order to adopt the Constitution of Serbia was just to give up this concept of regionalisation of Serbia, because some other parties, the big parties of Serbia, never wanted to accept it, and now it's about regional development of Serbia, about the even regional development of Serbia, and we are really coming into an absurd situation. It's a good thing the Minister accepted this amendment, that's commendable. We're showing, from the DSS, that we were right when we warned that the ruling majority was bringing us into this situation where we were now, mentioned earlier, approaching midnight on Monday. As you can see, we are trying to be constructive, to adopt this budget and to fix it as much as possible, because as the government suggested, it really shouldn't have been adopted, no matter how long we had the deadline for his debate. I guess these amendments, even if we adopt a little more savings-related in the next section or redistributions where our priorities are higher in this society, then it's probably going to be easier next year. I hope the next member gets so much understanding, but we'll see. This evening is short ahead of us, but tomorrow is here, so we'll see if it comes to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11700	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Kragovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come out to point out another example of how discrimination is being made against the Serb people in relation to the regions, and I will read to you, in "Politica" today and today, a list of citizens, of the Serbian people, who were to receive some compensation on the promise of Minister Mladjan Dinkic, but unfortunately they will not be able to be on that list, regardless of what other citizens in Serbia will not be able to achieve that right. I would like to read: "Serbia's Privatisation Agency, based on Article 8(1). The law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 123/07, Article 202. Law on general administrative procedure "Official Journal of the SRJ", No. 33/97 and 31/01 and Article 6(2). Regulation on the procedure and method of registration of citizens entitled to cash compensation and transfer of actions without compensation, Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 3/08 and 31/08, following submissions for registration in the register of rightholders, the Privatisation Agency draws a conclusion - the application for registration of the rightholder shall be rejected. (President: Mr Kragovic, I hope you will bring this into contact with the content of the amendments, what you are now reading from "Politicals". I'm talking about what's been published by Politics the second day. 58,110 has just been published, and the sequel follows tomorrow, where an explanation has been given that citizens, who have enrolled in KIM actions, have no right to exercise that right. The paper also includes the names of three MPs, one from the ruling coalition, who are here in the hall, that they have no right to enter free actions promised by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia. You tell me I didn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11702	Mr. Kragovic, if you'll excuse me, just to remind you, the amendment says, "Extremely from article 61. The privatisation law, the AP Vojvodina budget, belongs to 85%, the budget of the Republic of Serbia 10% of the sale of NIS, the remaining 5% under a special programme of government, is allocated to the cities of Smederevo, Smederjevska Palanka, Velika Plana, Bor, Kladovo, Majdanpek and Negotin. '"Let me remind you it's an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11703	It's an amendment, I'm just talking about one solution that the government has made, favoring one part of the people at the expense of another people. And on the other hand, what is the rule for all, even these fundamental rights are being violated by this decision of the Privatisation Agency, which goes on below in the daily "Politicals". All members of the Constitution have been violated here, Art. 20, 21, 23, 36, 38, 52 and 58. What's their explanation? An explanation of who may be entitled to a free action: that he is 18, as of 31 December 2007, that they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia on 3 January 2008. So this assembly is illegal, Madam President. Three MPs, they will be and more, they have no right, they are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How can a MP be someone who isn't a citizen? Here it is in the paper, take it and read "Politics." Discards their application, people go nicely to the Mail Savings tent or PTT, sign up for a record to exercise the right to free action promised by Mladjan Dinkic. Now the list is coming out, there are 58,110 people at the moment, and of those three, who are MPs here. Why? Because they don't either have citizenship, or they're not on the election list. Who doesn't have a right, it's an electoral right, who can take away the electoral right? For all I know, in that Yugoslavia, only one man has lost his electoral right. That was Adam Demati. No one has ever lost their right to vote again. It's the basic human right to choose and be chosen. I'll read it to you, if you don't believe me, it's a scandal. I'm taking this chance. I can take it again if you don't want me to talk about this. He says, "To be submitted by a person who, in the process, checks the fulfilment of the conditions for enrolment in the register of rightholders, has been found not to be included in the electoral list of competent municipal authorities." It's an explanation that stands in "Politics." If you don't, I'll give you this copy to read. Then it is illegal and the choice of this assembly, illegal is the work of this assembly, of all local self-government in KIM, is the illegal choice of the President of the Republic, and this constitution is illegal, because some people who do not have the right to vote, who have no citizenship, have falsified. Then you, Madam President, are illegal, because I am an MP who has no citizenship, who has no right to vote, and I am sitting here in the Assembly, and three other MPs here, who are on this list, and there may be more. That is why I want to point out what discrimination is being done and it is sad that the Privatisation Agency is denying the right, the right to hope, most likely that no one will get the 1,000 euros promised by Mladjan Dinkic. But why, if there are 10 euros, be it 10 euros, if he has the right to do so in Belgrade, Nis, Lazarevic, why does he not have the right to Kosovo Mitrovica, Gracanica, Strpce and Ranilugu? Why isn't there a citizen with a kim? Why is he discriminated against by this decision of the Privatisation Agency? This was neither Solana nor Zaneri nor any of the foreigners who came and occupied us at KIM. This was done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. her Privatisation Agency. It's a shame to do something like this and act like one. Do you know what it means when a man reads his name - you lost your right, you have no right, and he had some hope, went to the mail counter, checked in, took some papers, lost some time? We bullied citizens, bullied postal officers, now we're harassing the Privatisation Agency. When we ask you for names that are people who receive two, three, four, five or more salaries on KIM, which you've given in the budget law, you don't have that record, and you have 58,110 and the following. Anyone who logs in means there's all the records. These suit you that Serbs do not have the rights, those who have the other Serbs in Serbia, and you do not want to publish a list of those who have abused those funds that are being sent to KIM, so you have done so much to fix the budget that the most drastic example of cutting the budget is right on the KIM item; 36%, why are you waving your head, Madam Minister? It's an item that's irrefutable. No item of the budget is so reduced as an item for KIM. What kind of subsidies from agriculture? What do we have to do with agriculture? The KIM Ministry has nothing to do with agriculture. That's what's devastating, that's what creates the picture that we've already been rejected, that we don't live in the state of Serbia, that we live in that phantom republic of Kosovo. These are all moves, one after the other, that lead us to a level of misrepresentation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards all citizens living in the KIM area. I stress again, we do not want to look at Pristina, we want to watch from Kosovo and Metohija in Belgrade. We want Belgrade to lead us, not to be led by Pristina. We want to respect the government and the president of the Republic of Serbia, not the government and the president of the Republic of Kosovo. We want the laws of the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo to apply, not to act according to the law of the phantom Republic of Kosovo. We want our children to go to the army of the Republic of Serbia, not to go to the army of Thaci, to be there terrorists and to deal with these things. Please, this is such information, where I'm called as an MP by the citizens. He published - sign your actions freely, and then he puts me in the paper that I don't have the right to action, I lost either citizenship, or voting rights, or election rights or I don't know what. I didn't write this, so you're criticizing me now why I did this. This is what the state did, and it's a shame she did. How am I supposed to explain down there to the citizens that this is something that irritates all of us? How to protect my rights, this fundamental human and minority rights, the fundamental right, I repeat my electoral right. Every 18-year-old citizen has the right to choose and be elected, and here it says we are not in the electoral list of the Republic of Serbia. You kicked us out. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11704	Mr Kragovic, you spoke despite my warning, I remind you of Article 106(3) on a subject that is not on the agenda. Otherwise, the delivery of the electoral certificate is an obligation for all of us. So you were talking about all of us, in some ways, but it's really not the agenda point. You didn't mention anything about the amendment. I'd like to ask other MPs to stick to the agenda. Mr. Djokovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11705	Madam President, fellow ladies and gentlemen, it's not good when we have every problem, and we have a lot of problems, we're making politicization. There's an obvious misunderstanding and someone's not happy about it. Simply, the citizen went to the mail counter, banks and others, declared his right to action. The next step is the step of the competent services tasked with keeping voter lists to deliver copies of the voter's list to the Privatisation Agency. Unfortunately, none of the KIM municipalities did it. So, our representatives, the presidents of the municipalities, and those who lead them, have not delivered the electoral list to the Privatisation Agency. I saw this problem yesterday, and that's why I invited the president of the Kosovo Mitrovica municipality, so I wouldn't politicize, so I wouldn't go out for a pay phone unnecessary, because the president of the Kosovo Mitrovica municipality is not from my party, which is irrelevant, as the rest of the KIM are not from my party, and I asked him to communicate with the Privatisation Agency on Monday, after they were late. Even about a month ago, in the same daily list in which this list was published, I won't advertise it, there was an invitation to representatives of municipalities who didn't deliver a copy of the voter's list. On that list were all municipalities with KIM. So I don't see here the intention of the Privatisation Agency, or the state of Serbia, but here there's an obvious neglect, negligentness, or even ignorance, usually ignorance can't be an excuse, the municipal structures of KIM. So on this occasion, I think we should drop the ball, not politicize everything if we don't have to, but invite these people who are in charge, the presidents of the municipalities, to make contact with the Privatisation Agency, to privatize in electronic form, as appropriate to the Privatisation Agency's computers, delivers from the electoral list, and to remove this problem. The citizens are quite rightly concerned. I've been called by a lot of people and asked what it is and how it is, so we're calling, I hope we all agree on that, the presidents of the municipalities, or their competent services, to solve this problem in this way. If he does not get rid of it, I think the least this congregation could require is to see the responsibility of the one who has failed. Whether it's a secret from the Agency or the municipal service, in any case, citizens can't suffer, and I, as a man who used to be an IT officer, can tell you that this is how it's done, that I've checked it out, and that it's not my turn to politicize anymore, but to go back to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11706	Thank you, Mr. Djokovic. The fact is that 106,000 citizens are listed in the polling list in KIM, that 95,000 displaced people are enrolled in municipalities in Serbia, according to the place of residence, but this is not the topic of work tonight. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Dimitrievich, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11707	Madam President, Madam Minister, to Article 4. I have submitted an amendment to the draft budget law. Before me, at least 10-12 of the DSS MPs spoke on the same subject. So, it's a good thing Mrs. Minister accepted this amendment. It is also good because of those residents of municipalities and cities in Pomoravlje, who saw that DSS MPs today made an extraordinary effort to convince the proposing representative to accept this amendment. That's a good thing. But in the mouth remains a bitter and supportive impression and taste, looking at the general picture of the draft budget law. So, in the presentation of the Prime Minister, the triprinciples were dominant. Mr. Prime Minister talked about unity, he talked about solidarity, he talked about a third principle, which I'm sure doesn't have much to do with logic. Principle - stimulatingly restrictive. Black, and white; thick, and thin; tall, and small. So how can something be stimulating if it's restrictive? I was thinking about the problem, and then I came to the conclusion that he was incentivized for some of the users of the budget. For example, it is encouraged for the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister, because these budgets have been increased by a large amount. He's also encouraged when it comes to work contracts. You can't add up all those numbers. It's a pile of money, maybe more than a foot, two. He's also encouraged when it comes to the travels of government representatives. In those situations, he is stimulating and he is stimulating. Where is he? Where is he? It's restrictive in those pre-election promises. It is restrictive when it comes to pensions, cost of life, free education, it is restrictive in the field of health, etc. That's the story that leaves the bitter taste in the mouth and despite this little shift made by a proposing representative, but simply throwing a few drops of white in a full bucket of black color doesn't get much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11708	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11709	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I am very pleased that my fellow citizens from the Kolubar district, from the city of Valjev and from the municipalities of Mininica, Ljig, Lajkovac, Osecina and Ub may say they have received something at least with this amendment. I have to say one joke that I mentioned when you're all amendments concerning the Colubary County, and I've submitted more amendments, one of them was also rebalancing and now in the budget that the earthquake funds increase at least how much, I just wanted to say that it might be good for the citizens of the Colubar County to join the Vojvodina with some referendum. Maybe we'd have some better and better treatment. On the aside, I want to thank you precisely for the fact that the Kolubar County was one of those districts that had very impoverished in the 1990s, which in 1998 had an earthquake, which was unfortunate to have suffered very badly in the bombing, which is one of those districts that the transition had made even more suddenly poor and he considers in that category, according to science, of transition poverty. I mean, we haven't had much luck privatizing businesses, 57 companies in the Colubary County haven't been privatized at all, 37 is, unfortunately, completely unsuccessful. The whole process came down to the fact that after some time or at that point, workers were fired, property of the company sold out, and that the practical company stopped producing, or changed its purpose. So we have a really high level of unemployment, some of the municipalities of the Kolubar district belong to the category of poor and undeveloped municipalities, which means that young, educated people are leaving these municipalities and that it's really a big problem to stop this process of leaving and devastation of poor and small municipalities. What I want to point out is that it is really very important that the Kolubar County has several good projects that are looking for larger funds right now, so I hope that these funds that can practically be counted on by accepting Mr. Aligrudic's amendment, which practically changes the essence that 5% of the funds that are supposed to belong to Vojvodina, will now be allocated according to projects to municipalities and other parts of Serbia. This will also implement the regional development strategy adopted in 2007. I must say, it is in line with what the DSS MPs asked for, which is respect for the Constitution, respect for the applicable Privatisation Act, the Transfer of Funds Act. I think we should be honest and say that with our tenacity MPs the DSS have done something for ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11710	Thank you, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Radovic, she wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, just to thank Mrs. Minister for the fact that, by accepting Mr. Aligrudic's amendment, my amendment has been accepted. We have submitted amendments because we felt it would be good to make a different redistribution of funds, given the need for Serbia to be decentralised and to develop evenly regionally. My amendment applied to Zaječar County and to the redistribution of funds to the municipalities of Zaječar, Knjižvac, Bolec and Soko Banja. I'll put in a few sentences that the state of business in Zaječar County is extremely bad, that the company's masquerade is operating with huge losses and that the privatisation process is not yet over. Unemployment is, as in most municipalities, the biggest problem. Unlike other municipalities in Serbia, unemployment is above the republican average and is 23%. I believe that these funds that I have provided for in the amendment, which the amendment has also been accepted by the finance minister, will help to invest in infrastructure projects that will create basic conditions for new direct investment, which will speed up employment itself. I thank the Minister once again for accepting the amendment that I have submitted to Article 2 and thank you once again for accepting the amendment that I have submitted to Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11712	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Lapcevic wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11713	President-in-Office, honourable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my favorite amendment to Article 4, and I say my favorite because I consider this proposal to be an extremely illegal proposal from a member who regulates the percentage of the transfer of funds to the AP Vojvodina budget to 90% I believe that, apart from being illegal, it is absolutely unfair. That's what my fellow DSS MPs have repeatedly stressed and explained. I think this is absolutely incorrect to all other economic operators in Serbia and to Serbian citizens under Sava and Danube. I told you that this is the most drastic violation of the law in this budget and that I believe this will have far-reaching consequences. I asked what we should do from Nis, since about the same amount of money was sold to Philip Morris, or DIN, whether we should now be looking retroactively for Nisu and the Ninland to be paid 90% in the DIN privatisation budget. I'm sure there's a lot more logic than there is for NIS. NIS is a public company, a state-owned company, which was created and since the incomes of all Serbian citizens, a company has been developed, and therefore much more logically there is that these funds are more evenly distributed to all citizens, according to all municipalities, than is privatisation of DIN or any company in any city. The argument that most of NIS' property is located on the territory of Vojvodina or arguments, it's a duchy property, is indeed something that is not only incorrect but I'm afraid it's small and unconstitutional. I haven't heard of the category that there's a duchy property or property in this town or that town. As far as I know, according to the Constitution, the property of the Serbian state and nothing more. No one reacted from the ruling coalition when such terms were used. I proposed that my amendment be reduced, although I am aware that this amendment is not in line with the Privatisation Act, but when the government can already break that law, I suggested that this violation of the law be, I say, to the lesser extent that 10% of the privatisation of NIS is re-distributed in the territory of Nisavsky and Toplici County. Here's why. At least 10% of the assets, if not more than the estimated NIS assets are located on the territory, 8% of the total turnover of oil derivatives and everything sold at NIS pumps is just coming from the region. Indeed, there is no argument why so many funds would not return to the region. If we look at those other characteristics that concern the degree of development of earnings per employee, the number of unemployed or something called the index of economic development of a particular region or county, there are facts devastating. Go to the website of the Republic Development Institute and you will see that the rates, i.e. the economic development indices of the district, or cities for the city of Belgrade, the Northoba County, the Westbočka and the rest are 120 to 150, and the indices for the likes of Nisavski County are 89, for Toplički 64. The average salary in Nisavska County is 74% of the average salary in Serbia, in Toplico County, 66%. All this clearly says that this amendment is absolutely meaningful and that this topic should be considered. Of course, I am grateful to the minister that she has considered the summary amendment proposed by the DSS and adopted it, in order to reduce this injustice in some way, but I still find it unfair, I still think it makes no sense that 90% of NIS's privatisation funds are transferred to the province's administration without knowing what the money is spent on. One day we'll ask us from Nis where our money is, where our money is. Excuse me, if 90% of the sale of the Nis tobacco industry, about 300m euros, went to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and was distributed by Nis getting 5% of it, and the rest went to all the cities in Serbia, a third went to Vojvodina, why would we now be denied the same amount of money from NIS, which will go to Vojvodina, and 90%? The development projects will also be funded, so when the municipality of southern Serbia applies for any project in the Ministry of Education or Health, or in the infrastructure, in the NIP, then they will say, wait, we have requirements from Bac, Topola, Šid, Sremski Karlovac, and we have to give them, as well as other municipalities in Serbia. When loans from the Development Fund are sought, the exact same arches apply to both Vojvodina municipalities and municipalities in Serbia, for any ministry the exact same arches. Transfer funds are proportionally the same for Vojvodina municipalities and municipalities in Serbia. But that's why the Dukean municipalities can get funding from the Vojvodina Development Fund, they can get resources for infrastructure and from the Vojvodina budget, healthcare aid, help for education. So local self-government economic operators from the Vojvodina territory have two mothers sucking, and the undeveloped south and the poor south that is empty can never get in line. That's why you have 30% of the population in Belgrade inflow for the last 20 years, and 30% of the population in southern Serbia. That way it'll keep going, maybe it'll get worse. I don't think that's the goal of anyone in Serbia and that this shouldn't be the way Serbia will be further ruined. If you want, and I think that everyone in their right mind would have to think of a balanced regional development, then these things can't be found in the basic document on economic policy in the budget. I'm sure this is how it's gonna go, unfortunately. Unfortunately, because it is unfair and because it will continue to encourage the underdeveloped to be even more underdeveloped and developed to have double funds from where it will develop and perhaps have far-reaching political consequences. Because what remains of these municipalities and people living in southern Serbia? Well, they have to self-organize. If Vojvodina has a political form of autonomy, why shouldn't they organize themselves, and make some form of association of municipalities, so they're looking for the same thing, because there's no other way. Obviously, in Serbia, everything must be fought or kidnapped. That's not our goal. Thank you for your understanding of this amendment, but I'm afraid it won't be any more important to fix it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11714	Thank you, Mr. Lapchevich. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Pejcic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Pejcic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11715	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I would like to thank you on my personal behalf, on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group, on behalf of the citizens of the Jablani District for accepting this amendment to the 4th Budget Act. For us in Jablani County, which has 242,000 inhabitants, stretching to 2,782 km square km, these funds are both important and important. You know that in Jablanic County we also have two devastated municipalities, according to those 2004 parameters, it's Leskovac and Medvedja, and I hope these municipalities and how to know that they're using these funds that you've granted them from the privatisation of NIS. In fact, some capital projects, such as the Barje water system, such as the wastewater processing plant and many other projects, have been launched in the Jablanic district. We thank you because we hope to complete these capital projects with these funds. Thank you for accepting this amendment of mine, and I would like to thank you once again on behalf of the citizens of Jablani County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11716	Thank you, Mr. Pejcic. Anyone else want a word? The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here after 12 hours of work we must preserve the mental set and negotiate very important matters. I think what was done by the finance minister, from the point of view of the opposition, is very good. The amendment was accepted, which speaks of the justification of the amendment sent by the opposition. I must point to the legislative and legal regulation of Article 4 and the problems that can arise from the aspect of legal regulation, and also from the aspect of the financial base, because there is also some financial information behind this which will be the result of the legal regulatory and legal basis that will arise from this position of the finance minister and the Government after the adoption of these amendments. In the draft budget law in Article 4(5), the provision states: Exceptionally from the Privatisation Act, Official Messenger, etc., the AP Vojvodina budget is 90% and the Republic of Serbia's budget 10% from NIS AD. I have to read article 61's provision, and then we'll compare it to Article 4. Draft budget law. Article 61 shows the assets referred to in Article 41b. The position of the 2nd law is being allocated as follows: 10% of the funds are being paid to the Republic's pension fund, 50% of the funds will be allocated to finance the restructuring and development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Let's see what article 41b says. The privatisation law says: "The funds achieved from the sale of capital in the privatisation process are paid to the Agency. The funds referred to in Article 1(1) shall, after the settlement of the costs, be sold in the privatisation process and the special compensation effected by the conclusion of the sale contract, i.e. the assets (provisions), as well as the primary settlement of the creditors of the privatisation entities in which the restructuring was carried out, be paid to the payment account of the Republic of Serbia. "Great, in the budget. The moment it entered the budget, and it has to go into the budget, but then why do you need the provision of Article 4(5)? The Budget Law, any lawyer who has dealt with this issue more seriously, thank God in the ministry with you and the government, will tell you that it cannot be a material and legal regulation based on which certain obligations are made. These are some other material regulations. Furthermore, what is important from the point of view of spending means that if we allocate 85% of the province according to the proposed proposal, 85% of the funds under Article 61(3) if the assets of the privatisation entity are located in the territory of the AP, 50% of the funds will be allocated to finance restructuring and development of the economy of the AP Vojvodina. The problem arises when you predict these funds in the budget, you don't have a material basis, the budget can't be a material basis, then you've caused problems as you violate the provisions of the Privatisation Act needlessly. So the funds went into the budget. You share them as you share all other means. You must frame yourself in a constitutional provision that obliges you to allocate 7% of the funds into the budget of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. When funds come into the budget of the AP Vojvodina, it doesn't matter, I say, and that's what your control should do, a special budgetary inspection, does not care about the legal obligation of the Privatisation Act, which says 50% of the funds are allocated from financing and restructuring and the development of the economy. It is especially important for Vojvodina to invest in agriculture. It is important for all of Serbia, but in Vojvodina, which the Vojvodinans rightly say is Serbia's cereal, in the last 10 years of new tendencies, new politicians, educated by the European Union's form, no longer mentioning cereals, no longer investing in agriculture. At least he's investing in agriculture. At least it is invested in restructuring the economy. The smallest is investing in the recovery of the severe state of the economy in Vojvodina. The same situation is in Serbia. Here's some data. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia -- in which all privatisation funds should be pooled. He doesn't get that money. You in the Ministry of Finance follow this and you must follow it, and you know the fact and the fact that 50% of privatisation must be poured into the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and that these funds are used according to the provisions of Article 61, where 50% of the funds are allocated to finance restructuring and development of the Republic of Serbia's economy. That doesn't seem right. Do an analysis, send in the inspections, and you'll see that it doesn't. What must be done, what the government must do, to develop those comparative advantages and those actions that we can all benefit from together. We need to develop agriculture because we have natural comparative advantages. We also have an educated peasant. He's got the machinery for now, the way he's got it, but he's been doing it for years, he knows, and we need to help him. Instead of developing agriculture, lobbying circles in our country have buried our market with agricultural products from all over the world. What's going on with the economy? The funds from the privatisation-based budget must be merged into the Development Fund. The Development Fund has spent about 10-13 billion or 14 billion dinars in the last three years, which is about 150m euros. Privatisation revenues were far higher than those amounts. Why doesn't it seem? It's one of the concepts of policies to break up the economy and especially agriculture. It's tragic for agriculture. Furthermore, we have an institution that was inaugurated during 2003. This is the Privatisation Agency, which, according to the government's 2005 decision, was given the opportunity to transfer 5% of the assets from auction and tender sales to the Privatisation Agency. At the Privatisation Agency is currently an average of 87,175,36 dinars, while the average of earnings in the country is 33,700 and some dinars, in this institution there are 87,000. Listen to the profits for September, October, November 2008. Director 302.938, Deputy Director 260,985, Executive Director 259,756, Director of the Centre 210,791, Director of the sector 137,000, Director of regional offices 131,000 and Head of Department 107.000. Now we'll see how many directors this institution has. We have one director, we have one advisor, we have one deputy, we have two executive directors, we have nine directors of the center, we have 13 directors of the sector and four directors of the regional office. He has a total of 31 executives. Further data, all from G17 and DS. Data on the Agency's gross earnings for 2006, 2007 and 11 months 2008. The Agency's gross earnings in 2006 are 467 million. In 2007, 653 million. In 11 months 2008, it's 865 million. We can expect that in 12 months 2008, the total gross earnings of the Agency will be about a billion dinars. If I tell you that the total outreach for employment through the Development Fund is 2,700,000 and that this agency has spent approximately that amount, then it clearly tells you how much we have really invested in the effort, or the current government, to employ people. The privatisation agency spends more money than the state spends on active employment. Start-ap loans for 2008, totalled two billion 700 and some million for beginners, and approved about two thousand and 130 loans, i.e. start-ap loans for beginners. Now let's see what a commission of 5% of the sale of capital, what the Agency collects and what the Agency spends. In 2006, it's a billion and eight million. In 2007, there's a billion and 418 million. In the eleven months of 2008, it was two billion and 40 million. As much as it's picked, it's spent. As much as this agency collects on the basis of a commission to sell capital and various fees collected by this agency on the basis of privatisation of state and social enterprises, it is also spent. If we compare as much as the state singles out for employment and these funds that this agency spends, then we see that it's an egal. We can't do that. You must not allow any state institution to create one system of spending. This is a vermin system that spends resources without real foundation. If we say there are 30 directors, 30 executives, what do we talk about further? This agency is due to finish most of the work at 31.12 this year. It stops working. It is now an institution with 150 workers and 30 executives. What's going to happen to 1.1? Will your workers end up on the street? No, they're going to redistribute to some other institutions or stay in this institution, get state resources, and these people are going to live quite happily. We see how the receipts are there, we see that there's an average profit of 87,000, while there's a total of 33,000. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11718	Thank you, Mr. Buha. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to the 5th Sections 1 and 14th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mladenovicu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vladan Jeremic submitted an amendment, in Article 5, divided one, function 110, economic classification 422 - travel expenses, in columns 6 and 8 to replace the amount of 226 million dinars with 126 million dinars. Also, in Article 5, division 14, function 420, economic classification 451 - subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in column 6 to replace the amount of 17 billion 285 million with 17 billion and 385 million, and in column 8 amounting to 17 billion and 885 million to replace 17 billion and 985 million dinars. The amendment has been accepted, as it is said here, for the reasons that these funds are intended for travel expenses under the distribution of the National Assembly proposed in accordance with the competences and needs of this budget user. We didn't suggest that travel costs be abolished -- simply to cut by 100 million dinars. We think it's real, that travel can be reduced. The price of oil is, you see, in a constant decline in recent months, and that is why we have proposed this amendment, that these funds be reduced to a minimum, that they be reduced by 100 million dinars. The funds that would be saved from these trips to shift to more important and significant funds for Serbia. In particular, those savings should be invested, i.e. shifted to modernising machinery and equipment that would increase the efficiency of production and reduce risks and thus also the production price of individual products. We also believe that these funds can be used to purchase equipment for agricultural production and processing, as well as for irrigation and construction equipment for mini-milkers, droughts, freezers, etc. We believe that these funds are more necessary for this purpose. They can also be invested in the equipment of facilities in rural areas, along with the purchase of equipment and restoration of traditional rural households that have the potential to deal with rural tourism and thus provide support for the development of the village. In part, money would also shift to improving agricultural land, then protecting agricultural land, through the possibility of doing so with counter-irrative measures through the control of the fertility of farmland, etc. It can also be used - for the use of agricultural land. We believe that this money should be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management for a number of reasons, and above all, a quarter of the money was allocated to the ministry less than in the previous year. We believe this small amount of this ministry will further tear down this branch. We also believe that some other ministries have received significantly less funds than is necessary, I will mention only the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and note that Serbia's coverage of spatial plans is currently 20%. On the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, which we had the other day, Minister Oliver Dulic suggested that they have a plan to cover Serbia with 90-100% spatial plans. However, I highly doubt that this will be possible in the coming year, and I think even if it does, the question to what extent these spatial plans will be realized. You're free of spatial plans if they're standing in drawers and they're not being realized, as well as laws -- we have good laws that don't apply, and we also don't benefit from them. Once again, I urge this amendment to be adopted. I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources should receive this amount and these 100 million dinars that can be saved from these travel costs, that they should be re-routed to these parts that I have listed, which will benefit the citizens of Serbia more.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11720	Mr. Mladenovicu, just one comment. Thank you. So this amendment concerns all of us. For this division, otherwise 100 million less than last year has been predicted, you are proposing a further reduction. That basically means we won't have travel expenses for sitting down, because we think we're already being denied. Last year we spent 320 million, the proposal is already 100 million less, and you suggest we go further down. Maybe it's a really good idea, but it's just not feasible -- it's travel expenses for coming to sessions. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. By the way, I think the proposer here has been extremely restrictive towards us and has really denied us a single item that is necessary for the functioning of parliament. The Serbian Radical Party not only supports this, but thinks the restrictions should be even more drastic -- that means we'll be on the bus. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11721	This is your contribution to the discussion of this amendment. But I think you've been misinformed. There's been a terrible fall in the price of crude oil on the world market, with about $140 per barrel, now we're at 38, there's still going to be a fall. In addition, we are counting on this cheap gas, so we are counting on NIS to be restructured with the help of this sale contract, so there are savings mechanisms in terms of fuel price. However, you have forgotten that there is a saving mechanism for the work of the National Assembly, which means, if a quality law comes in and there is a need to submit one, possibly two amendments, then the session can take 15 minutes, but if we get such bad material, on such expensive 800-page paper and some pages, then you have seen for yourself that all parliamentary groups express their disagreement with this policy led by the Serbian government through amendments. In order for Serbian citizens to know what the amendment refers to, the amendment refers to that budget split relating to the National Assembly and suggests reducing travel costs, and this is not only for MPs to come from some places to Belgrade to attend the National Assembly session, but also for travel abroad. We're proposing rationalization, so these journalists don't call us a little bit, so they call. If the funds are reduced, then the government will be obliged to propose better quality laws, then the presidents of the competent bodies, the working bodies of the National Assembly, will schedule sessions seven to ten days in advance, the MPs at home will read the material, and come to the board's session, and they will get involved, not to have these ad hoc sessions. Please, call these Legislatives, go there, call those from finance -- go there, while the session of the National Assembly. This includes also one rationalization and more efficient work, primarily the leadership of the National Assembly. In order not to be a problem, as far as budget system law is concerned, this amendment provides exactly where to direct those 100 million dinars. If taken away from the National Assembly, to give to the Ministry of Agriculture and to be dedicated means to mechanising and restoring our villages, because we count that due to the unilateral application of the agreement with the EU on impact, farmers will be, above all, because very cheap agricultural and food products will come free from customs. With the budget law, you are already proposing a reduction of subsidies to agriculture. Here, we count and appeal to the readiness of the DS, as ruling in that coalition, appeal to their willingness to give up the works of these funds in favour of the development of our agriculture. It would be even better if the funds were directed towards undeveloped areas, towards those villages where people leave and don't return. That's our idea. So we want to achieve several very important political goals. Of course, it takes as many people as possible, according to the standard of living in our villages, to move from socially unsecured status in the city to the village to be masters. But what an agrarian policy it is for the past few years, you have seen for yourself that a peasant in Vojvodina with 10 ha of property, even though all this is handled, becomes a social case, not a boss. This is our contribution and we appeal to all MPs, above all DS, to give up this part of the Republic of Serbia's budget relating to the costs of official travel. I have to work for the public, because in two minutes you're going to stop this transmission, let the citizens know -- tomorrow you're going to have a chance to hear that we're applying this logic to other departments and other ministries, to reduce the costs of official travel. Economic reasons for the reduction exist. What are they looking at? The decline in the price of oil derivatives, a very favourable contract with the Russians, is likely to improve these capacities in the first year and stabilise NIS, make the country's organisers more responsible for the very responsible business. Because, I'm sorry, please, and I'm uncomfortable with the press writing -- this MP was only in the Assembly for an hour and 22 minutes, or this one was so many days, or Gordana Comić 725 hours kept the tirada here, why there wasn't a broken Rules of Procedure, or maybe a little less, which hour, doesn't matter -- to break out those additives, to raise the reputation of the National Assembly, to fight for parliamentaryism. I advertised a book this morning, and I recommend you read it. It will be much clearer to you how to work in the National Assembly, how to fight for the citizens. I remind citizens, now that the DS is moving into its offensive, they're coming out to rest, they've been working all day, to remind me that the President of the Republic said on Saturday's tide that protecting jobs and keeping each individual's job in the Republic of Serbia is a sacred job, a sacred task. If you have any problems, please contact Rasim Ljajic, so that he can start with a work inspection to get your employers in line, to respect the law. Let me remind you that you're keeping an eye on the state banks, which are private banks, so you don't say tomorrow - you didn't warn us in time. I must warn you in time, that tomorrow there are no harmful consequences, very dangerous for all of us, I must warn other social groups before this holiday, to be patient. We'll see, it'll probably go the way we thought, there'll be everything and everything... (President: Time. Not yet? To draw attention to another fact, we hope for these 100 million dinars, that you will accept this initiative, to focus on agriculture and count on, if at least 500 citizens, 500 people who deal with agriculture based on this redistribution to protect their jobs in their field, it is a great success for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11722	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Just to remind you that the fees for using their own vehicle so far, in six months, have been 50 million. So that's the only item that's that big. Here you have the structure of the position 422 you can look at. Mr. Nikolic asked for a word and we'll be done in three minutes. According to the Rules of Procedure, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11723	Unlike the predecessors who defended a non-bulent amendment, squirmish, I can't say that it's necessary to cut travel costs because no one calculated them, I guess they're this big. Don't pretend to cut travel costs, and these will refuse that amendment, so you'll be good, here you are, taking care of the peasants, and the travel costs will be as great as they are. The Rules of Procedure exist, according to him every MP who travels every day has the right to a transport fee of up to 250 km, it is calculated. I guess the government didn't give us any more. I would accept that you are fighting for the greater rights of the National Assembly, I will not let you fight for the lesser rights of the MPs because it is hypocrisy to us, for example, from Belgrade, so we have no travel expenses. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS parliamentary group cannot support this amendment, it cannot put you independence on the government of the Republic of Serbia. If the law, if it is our Rules of Procedure, if the Rules of Procedure of the Administrative Board have determined that you have the right to travel expenses, it will not be possible for you to be lifted by some MPs by their amendment. You're dealing with people, politics, don't make up a pothole.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-27-0.u11724	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's ten o'clock, Mr Krasic has asked for a replica, but I think we're done for today. To ask you to work effectively tomorrow, in line with the real potential we have, and to finish the budget. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 126 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by members of the Government and Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Ruzica Stojljković, Assistant Director of the Treasury Office. With us, of course, Minister Diana Dragutinović. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to Member of the 5th Sections 1 and 14th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There was a word yesterday. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 5 of Sections 2 and 14 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Alexander Martinovic has a word. I sincerely hope that in time, which is enough to clarify the amendments, you will present your position on this amendment.
