ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I didn't want to report on the basis of Article 104, because I believe that the president of the National Assembly last night did not deliberately deceive the citizens of Serbia because she said that yesterday's working day was interrupted because most of the MPs who submitted amendments to the law we discussed yesterday were not present in the hall. So this is for the public, the president of the National Assembly knows that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly says that each parliamentary group has the right and the possibility to speak for 15 minutes. Members of the Serbian Radical Party, and many of our MPs submitted amendments, were in the hall and were ready to discuss the amendment until further notice. However, it is that we agreed on a previous day to change the order of the laws we will talk about because these laws on behalf of the government are represented by Mrs. Snezana Malovic, a minister, a woman who has shown willingness to co-operate with the MPs. As we know about the good news that the lady is pregnant, that we congratulate her and we want everything best in this regard, we didn't want to cause any trouble. We accepted that change in order and we thought, also in agreement with the minister and the president of the DS parliamentary group, that it would not be at least humane that up to one, two, three hours a night Mrs Malovic would sit here. For this reason, on the basis of the agreement, last night we cut off around half-nine, and as far as the SRS MPs are concerned, you know that, too, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, also know that we can work 24 hours, and that is no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4589	Thank you. This information is complementary to those we already know. National MP Milovanovic, who was not in the hall last night at the time we were due to continue work, submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter VI and Articles 51 - 58 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There's a word for Mrs. Radet, and then you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4590	Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, it's no problem whether the MP who filed the amendment in the O.R. or not. You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, keep saying what suits you, and that is not correct at the very least. So, SRS MPs, our parliamentary group has tabled a large number of amendments to the bill on the anti-corruption agency. On behalf of the parliamentary group, counterpart Milovan Radovanovic has submitted an amendment to treat and decide Chapter VI in the case of violations of the law above Articles 51 and Articles 51 - 58. Yesterday we talked about the reasons why the SRS parliamentary group submitted amendments to this bill. Every time we discuss and discuss with the parliamentary group the government's draft law, we make sure that the proposal is such that amendments can be corrected, if the majority or representatives of the government want to accept our suggestions that we make through amendments, or if it is such a text of the law that no amendments can be corrected either. When it comes to such text of the law, we in the Serbian Radical Party suggest that each of the members of the bill be deleted. Sometimes the ruling majority, or MPs from the ruling majority, see our amendments as obstruction, which, of course, is not true. We have the right to act as SRS when it comes to any government proposal. This time, we submitted the amendments by proposing, under the sections of the bill, the erasure of all members, with the same explanation that the bill on the Anti-Corruption Agency proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is such that it cannot be in the legal system of the state of Serbia, for the simplest reason it is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, an explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia why it does not accept our amendments is a text. We don't blame them this time, because the government can do the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We know that the government does not only adhere to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in its own functioning. This is what is not good not only for the government, but also for the citizens of Serbia, it is not good for the Republic of Serbia either. On a daily basis, we get acquainted with information about some affairs and announcements of some affairs. They mainly refer to corruption at the top of the government. These corruption affairs are tied to the period from 2000 to the day of today, precisely the period for which we Serbian radicals consider it very bad for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, when they were in power, and are still representatives of the Democratic Party. Most of the Democratic Party and senior officials of the Democratic Party are involved in various affairs the media is dealing with. The problem in Serbia, however, is that the affairs appear only on the front pages of the newspaper. We don't know how many mobs, so the people who are designated by the authorities as the leaders of these mafias will be in custody for a certain time, after which they get out of custody, whether the procedure is being conducted, how it's being conducted, it's pretty much all over that people's -- there's been a shaking up mountain, there's been a mouse born. This means that neither this current government of the Republic of Serbia nor the previous government has any serious intention of standing up to corruption and crime in the right way. If we seriously want to get in the way of corruption and crime, then we need to respect existing laws first. I believe that Mrs Malovic will agree with the fact that in Serbia we have standards, i.e. laws covered almost all social areas, and that until today, and before the adoption and entry into force of this law, we have also had broad opportunities to fight corruption. The problem is that the ruling majority has no will and has no serious intention of resisting corruption and crime. We talked yesterday about various committees, councils, commissions formed under some of the laws we've passed over the past period. We were also talking about what all these regulatory bodies actually did. The effect is truly devastating, and you have to agree with that. If there was someone or if there was a body who was willing to stand up in any way to corruption at the top of the government, of course, always stood in his way those who bear corruption. I don't know if it is necessary for Serbia's public to remind, let's say, of all the affairs that Mrs Verica Baraic spoke about very often in the media; each time she complained that the council she chaired by the state did not allow conditions for work. The problem is... You know, we don't need agencies, we don't need commissions, we don't need advice, we have a judicial system, we have law enforcement, we have prosecutions, we have courts, and it's quite enough for the state and the competent authorities to seriously deal with corruption and crime. I read in the paper this morning, and you were certainly in a position to read, that Mrs Vida Petrovic-Škero regrets that two and a half years had not been elected by any new judge, that every day there were fewer judges in Serbia, that people were leaving the judiciary for these or those reasons, and that, let's say, of the nine requirements for the resolution of judges because of the unconscious performance of the judge's office, three requirements were neither on the Committee nor on the motion for the agenda of the parliament's session because, as Mrs Shkero said, there was not a majority to decide. That's the problem. I'm a member of the Justice and Administration Committee, and I find it abnormal to know that from the media. Here, today is not the president of this committee. I'd like him to tell us if what Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero said is true. If so, why, when we discussed these proposals for the resolution of judges and of the Justice and Administration Committee and here in parliament, did someone remove those three demands that the High Council of Justice, i.e. the Great personal council and the National Assembly? If Mr. Bosko Ristic shows up during the day, I ask that this stenogram be forwarded to him and inform the National Assembly which are three cases, which is obviously... Again, if Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero has provided accurate information, and I have no reason to doubt that she is not, then Mr Bosko Ristic is obliged to inform the National Assembly, and the public of Serbia and all those employed in the judiciary, which are the three demands this committee and this parliament received, which are being removed for some unknown reason. So, first of all, for the sake of the public, I would like to warn you, as far as the Serbian Radical Party MPs are concerned, we have always been prepared and ready to discuss every topic on the agenda. And why for so long has there been no choice of judges, it is certainly a question for Oliver Dulic first. Because in the last term of parliament, it is true, we have never had the opportunity to discuss or decide the choice of judicial authorities. That was strange to us, too, but what you're going to do is it's the President of Parliament who meets us, who delivers materials to us, and we can never be sure that everything that we get is really everything that's addressed to Parliament. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, if Col. Ristic does not show up, I would ask you through the service to find out what three requirements the High Council of Justice has made for us, and have neither reached the Justice Committee nor this Parliament. Of course, one reason could be to try to keep the judiciary from operating in optimal conditions. It may also be one of the reasons, but conscious reasons for the ruling majority, not to stand up to corruption and crime in the right way. After all, we have one of the most serious crimes in play, and that is the end of the electoral will of citizens. Here's how many days have passed, we try every time to convince the ruling majority that a group of citizens who have sinned against the electoral law, who have committed one of the most serious crimes, is the end of the electoral will of citizens. You continue to treat them as MPs, although they are not and cannot be because they are not allowed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 102(2), which clearly states that MPs can make their mandates available to the party to which they belong. All MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have made their mandates available to the Serbian Radical Party. The fact that someone who has been excluded from the SRS has dared to insult not only the SRS, but all of our voters and says he has lost his resignations but has not lost but has stolen it and will therefore be held accountable, criminal charges have already been filed, a problem that should be discussed precisely under this anti-corruption law. Because an open question arises whether any of these people were potentially corrupt by whom he was bought to obstruct the work of opposition parties, precisely in the period when serious talks were suggested between the opposition that the opposition would unite to stand up right against the ruling majority and dictatorial regime of Boris Tadic. We know the answers to these questions. We know that Boris Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic, under the auspices of US Ambassador Manter, did all of this in an attempt to take over the SRS to Vojislav Seselj, thank God, without success, and thus allow The Hague tribunal to kill Vojislav Seselj. Thank God, the Serbian Radical Party remains the single, strongest opposition party, and to the soul of these "yellows" is the fact that the citizens of Serbia are sitting, unprovoked, in these benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4591	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Lausevic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter VII and Articles 59 - 62 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister, in front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter VII of the Integratedity Plan be deleted, above Article 59, and members 59 to 62. The proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency in Articles 59, 60, 61 and 62 proposed an integrity plan. Article 59 of this proposal sets out measures of legal and practical nature to prevent and eliminate the possibility of the creation and development of corruption. Article 60 provides for the obligation to adopt an integrity plan by state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government, public services and public enterprises. Article 61 defines the responsibility of the Authority to determine the person responsible for the construction and implementation of the integrity plan, on whose training the old agency is trained, while in Article 62 other legal entities other than those mentioned in Article 60 may also adopt an integrity plan. On their proposal, the Agency can carry out an integrity assessment and propose recommendations for improving integrity. The analysis of Article 59 will see which measures are particularly preventing and removing opportunities for the creation and development of corruption. The first step is to assess the institution's exposure to corruption. The fact is that the institution is exposed to corruption as much as those who work in it are exposed to corruption. The evaluation of this should bring the person responsible for the development and implementation of the integrity plan. The agency takes care of the person's training, but the question is how will this person assess the institution's exposure to corruption. Perhaps the assessment of that person will be that the institution in which it works is not at all exposed to corruption. That's his individual assessment. The next measure is the person responsible for the integrity plan. No information is required here. The following measure: a description of the process of work, how to decide and identify jobs that are particularly subject to corruption. Here, the person in charge of the integrity plan can describe the process of work and how to decide and determine that there are no jobs that are subject to corruption within the institution in which it works, and who will challenge it? Next, preventive measures to reduce corruption. The measures to reduce corruption are strictly law-abiding, which is not the case in our country. Here laws are passed which are not respected and are the basis for this amount of corruption in Serbia. All of this doesn't make any sense, because the agency whose establishment would want to be a completely unconstitutional organ. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is binding on everything and no one should violate it. If the state authorities are scheduled to be educated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then the law cannot educate others other than those who are educated by the Constitution. The government stated in its explanation that it did not accept the amendment for the reason it believes the bill educates the anti-corruption agency, which is in accordance with Article 97 of point 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides, among other things, the organisation and work of the republican authorities. These allegations for the establishment of the Agency do not have a foothold in the Constitution, so that no agencies, directorates or any other bodies can be established. If there is a will to start a fight against corruption and to suppress it in continuity, this will be done within a particular sector of the Justice Ministry, as the ministries are the only state bodies established under the constitution. The establishment of the agency doubles bodies with the same competences, a burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget. A massive bureaucratic body is created, inefficient and very expensive. The Committee on the resolution of the conflict of interest, which represents the advisory body, will cease to work on the establishment of this non-constitutional agency. The Committee made public its position on the draft anti-corruption law. Among other things, it says: "It is the position of the Republic Committee that the bill, based on its basic concept, in terms of organisation and mode of work of the Agency, does not constitute an appropriate legal framework for the prevention and fight against corruption. The Agency, headed by the director responsible for resolving conflicts of interest, political party financing and political campaigns, does not constitute a better solution compared to solutions from the existing law and the current concept of an independent Republic Committee consisting of nine independent members specialised in conflict issues of interest. The appropriate legal framework involves a truly independent anti-corruption body, and it is always harder to try to influence the exercise of public functions if the anti-corruption body is based on a collective basis than when decisions are made by one person - director of the agency. This position of the Republic Committee stems from political and legal theories on autonomous and independent bodies. The stability of truly independent anti-corruption, or anti-corruption, bodies are also crucial in the control of corruption and for the stability of democracy. "This is how the members of the Republic Committee on Dispute Resolution discussed the establishment of the Agency, and the result - the Committee will no longer exist. The Anti-Corruption Agency, even if established, would be a completely unconstitutional organ. Clearly, then, one such organ cannot propose any measures to anyone. It cannot impose an obligation on other state bodies established under the Constitution and whose work is legal, this illegal body to adopt an integrity plan, nor may it monitor the adoption and implementation of an integrity plan. This amendment therefore proposes to delete the entire seventh chapter and articles 59 to 62 relating to the integrity plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4593	The word is Mr. Stevanović, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when you see and realize that some members of the law cannot change or improve, then you are forced to propose amendments to which certain members of the law will be deleted. If you have followed, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted the last few amendments in this context to delete certain members of the law. This applies in particular to members of the laws covered by chapters 3 to 6. There are, of course, things that are defined by this law, which are objectively unable to improve, or control some written documents, and depend primarily on human conscience, awareness of the need to fight corruption, and certainly on human responsibility. If you read, Article 28(1) states: "The functioner is required to perform the function in such a way that the public interest does not subdue to private interests. "There is no written act to which you will make someone to whom this law applies or to whom you will be forced to rule in this way in the application of the law. For example, you have people who are sentenced to jail for some serious crime and up to 10 years, get out of prison and the third day after serving a sentence does the same thing or tends to commit a crime and they get sent back to prison. You have, for example, the fact that someone goes to the polls, wins a parliamentary mandate on the SRS list -- Dr Vojislav Seselj, after two or three months, realizes that he was doing all this under some pressure and coercion, leaving the SRS, but certainly retains the mandate, the heritage of what belongs to the SRS. That's what I'm talking about, that's what regulates a person's conscience, consciousness, and responsibility. Now it can't be said that in the state bodies that objectively existed and who could deal with this problem to the end there was no conscience, consciousness and responsibility. I'll back it up with one example, classic. I think yesterday someone after this speaker mentioned it, and it refers to the kind of corruption that a political party has applied in a pre-election campaign for parliamentary elections. Of course, it was a dominant factor in the previous government of the Republic of Serbia and it supported its political stances, for the concept of European Serbia, by buying voters with 600 dinars of market value. That's a lot of words from this pay phone. There's a lot of evidence for that, both written, recorded and on paper. Wherever the Serbian Radical Party met with such examples, we alarmed the competent state authorities. First the police came, found the actual situation on the ground, and then, as the duty warrants, they probably informed the market inspection, the financial police, who also came to the scene, determined everything on the ground. When things were meant to be processed, they came across a wall. The wall was usually located in the principles of financial, i.e. inspection bodies or ultimately in ministries. Although there was the responsibility of the competent state authorities, there was no political will for the state to deal with such matters. On the contrary, the highest state authorities have promoted these things and have promoted monsters like this. You cannot set such an example, then, that you expect someone else to rule in accordance with certain laws. I think that by forming this agency you continued one practice that you started eight years ago, which is that all the areas you're interested in regulate to certain agencies in one way or another. If you remember, you built a tobacco agency, so it was the Privatisation Agency, and there was a lot going on in those areas. You have a final example, which was a lot of words yesterday and yesterday, these days, and that's the State Audit Agency. The state created an agency, and then it did everything possible to keep it from functioning, and the agency is one of the mechanisms that could protect the state from corruption, which could control negative and bad phenomena in the area of public spending. You've done everything you can to keep it from working. I don't think this time's gonna be any different. If you see who chooses the board of directors of this agency, you realize that it will be the expression of the congregation's majority; the congregation's majority created on the principles of which you were created, the congregation's majority whose members threaten to leave it yesterday because of the presence of the so-called. The gas mafia. They even say they'll publish certain details about the gas mafia on Monday. Then you go one step further and you analyze who proposes members of the board of directors and when you do an analysis and the list of these agencies will look more like one of the DS's meat board than any body that will deal seriously with the problem of corruption and crime. On the basis of this, one conclusion is made; someone yesterday said that the fate of this law was questioned. I don't think the fate of this law has been questioned, it's sealed. Next week, I suppose, by the will of the majority, if some don't leave you, they'll adopt. He'll be back in the drawer where he was pulled from, waiting to be applied in a year. I think this approach to this problem puts the fate of applying this law in practice at risk. I think this is how you send a very bad message to the local public and certainly the one that is probably more important to you, to the European public. I don't think, based on all this, we all in Serbia can't even expect a gray, let alone a bright perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4595	Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic has submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter VIII and the members from 63 to 68 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we're looking at this law on the agencies that you're proposing, it's not foreseen by the Constitution to set up an agency. Such a solution reduces the responsibility extended by this government, which encourages corruption. In the previous period, we had laws and exactly agencies and advice on the fight against corruption, which worked, but which you did not, in any way, respect: advice on resolving conflicts of interest, Commissioner for Public Information, Ombudsman or Citizens' Protector, Public Procurement Administration and the State Auditing Institution. All of these institutions have been in common that no government has supported them since 2000. The latest data suggests Serbia takes 78th of the 180 countries, when it comes to corruption levels. This data suggests that as a country we belong to the order of states with systemic corruption and that we are a country with highly developed corruption, that the root cause of major corruption is the lack of political will of the current government to subject power to institutions of control that would have greater rights to prevent corruption, because mistrust in institutions and non-compliance is a scary big problem. The issue of corruption came first because of the fact that corruption not only prevents foreign investment but is significantly hampering political and economic reforms. The tycoons, newly-roasted rich people, affect politicians and executive and legislative authorities, judicial and other bodies, in order to adopt regulations that would be in their interest, and obvious examples are the setting up of company sales during the privatisation process. Corruption, in its essence and forms, has the most dangerous form of economic crime that characterizes covertness, high degree of social danger, many different forms, wide openness, difficult evidence in a criminal-priced sense, usefulness and a specific object that threatens corruption. When we talk about the emerging form of corruption in our country, we can say that, according to our current criminal and legal practice, criminal acts of corruption are most often revealed in business between public or public sector companies and private companies, where responsible persons in the state business or close relatives and friends appear as founders and managers. Through fictitious dealings with a social or state-owned company, most often through financial transactions, the acquisition of property benefit for private business owners, i.e. for themselves, then drastically enforcing the property of state-owned enterprises, when the state-owned enterprise leads to bankruptcy and then purchases in the so-called procedure. property transformations; taking over their jobs, then illegal evidence, until various permits are issued for construction, sale of land, etc. Then, in the case of large-scale public procurement, in international transactions, as a direct or indirect provision of any material benefit or other value given to a public official who performs his legal duties in order to obtain or retain a job and to benefit from it which is otherwise not subject to the general rules governing his work. The fight against corruption and its emerging forms is very complex and requires the use of special means and methods, as well as the constant search for new ones. In our country, the big problem is the fact that corruption rarely occurs in pure form, as well as that corruption crimes are difficult to detect, and those who find themselves hard to prove to the material and other evidence needed for complex court proceedings, which is why there are few suspects in Serbia so far truly and condemned. To successfully fight corruption, which is still on the rhetorical level, it is necessary to ensure independence, integrity and depolitisation of the judiciary, as well as to ensure the principle of rule of law. An important way to achieve a society with as little corruption as possible is to create a modern, efficient state administration, which must be a major defense for corruption and which, with an effective judiciary, will have a crucial role in eradicating corruption. Corruption in Serbia has been so rooted that it has become a common culture and way of surviving under this current power. It became normal for someone to bribe and bribe, otherwise nothing can be done. Woe to the one in Serbia who needs to finish some work, such as a lawsuit in court, getting some permission, going to a doctor. For several years, there has been talk of extreme healthcare corruption. So far, there has been no progress in solving this problem. The possibility of abuse in the field of public procurement, the opening of a space for conflict of interest due to the work of doctors in private and state practice and an inadequately regulated institution of protectors of patient rights contributes to corruption in health care. In the first place by corruption, customs, second place state-run, is health care, and then state-owned activities: police, municipal and republican services, justice, state-owned and private enterprises. Even though it only takes second place, the public assessment of the corruption of the state summit has the highest weight, because it has the greatest responsibility. All kinds of corruption, affairs, bankruptcy mafia, road mob, university mafia, urban mafia, tycoon issue, new gas situation, gas mafia, and none of that matters in power. Serbia therefore loses 2 per cent of its national income annually based on corrupt government and corruption in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4597	As regards the interest of Mrs Radeta, information that proposals for the resolution of the judicial functions or functions of the President of the Court of Justice who have been discussed and not accepted at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration on 22 September 2008 is the following: Nebojsa Milosevic, Judge and President of the Municipal Court in Vladicina Han, Ranko Bankovic, Judge of the Municipal Court in Prokuplje, and Mirjana Mitic, President of the Municipality Court in Surdulica. It is then quite clear to you why these proposals have not reached us, given Article 48 of our Rules of Procedure, which says that the Committee gives its opinion on the proposals for decisions on the selection of the President of the Courts and Judges, the public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors and other officials in the area of the judiciary and the administration of certain laws and submits proposals for the termination of their functions, i.e. the resolution. The word is Mrs. Radet, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4598	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, for the judge's discharge notice. Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero is right. The ruling majority, or members of the Committee in the ruling majority, did not do what they were supposed to do at the request of the High Council of Justice and the Great Personal Council. When it comes to the amendment relating to the proposal to delete the name of the chapter Prevention of Corruption, above Articles 63 and 68, it is interesting that this is already the third amendment and that you, Madam President of the National Assembly, are not paying attention to a very important fact. This is the amendment, nice in the title stands, the MPs' group of SRS. The amendment was signed by MP Veroljub Arsic. It was at a time when Veroljub Arsic was an MP for the Serbian Radical Party. How can this man still be in these benches, treating him like an MP, when this is the best proof that he was an MP when he was an SRS MP? Now that he has left with this "bolon" it should be kept in mind that such people are no longer allowed to be falsely represented, to deceive citizens of Serbia and, ultimately, to spend the funds of Serbian citizens who are meant to finance the MPs. I repeat, the question is what kind of corruption affair is behind what Manter, Tadic and Nikolic did, and with the intention of destroying the SRS, to help The Hague tribunal kill Vojislav Seselj. The issue should certainly be addressed by all the authorities in the state of Serbia, not just the MPs of the SRS, because you will see, this will be a problem for both the parliamentary majority and for the functioning of all the authorities in Serbia. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, they are no longer our problem, we have cleared the party from what was not good in the party; we are still the strongest and most serious political party in Serbia; we have and have always had the party president, Professor Vojislav Seselj. We don't have any problems with that, but it's unacceptable that every time we have to intervene because on behalf of the SRS Group here, someone who is no longer a MP appears as the signator of the amendment. When it comes to the bill of the Anti-Corruption Agency, Mr Spiro Gutic, a citizen living in Belgrade, delivered me a letter this morning and thinks the public should get acquainted with this letter right now when we talk about corruption and crime. I'm really going to do it. It's about this amendment and the section on the prevention of corruption. I won't read the whole letter, but Mr. Gutic wants to meet the MPs, the National Assembly with an injustice that has been committed to pensioners who have earned pensions in the former BiH and says: "The pensioners received pensions during the war and sanctions under the Serbian government regulation for 12 years; one time 50% of the total pension, after that 60%, to end up with 70%. When payment traffic was established between Serbia and the Federation of BiH, we began to receive pensions, the one we made fairly in Sarajevo and other parts of BiH. As possible," he asks, "that the difference from that percentage never got. "The gentleman goes on to say that he wrote six times in Sarajevo and that only after the sixth letter has he received an answer that when an agreement was made between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Federation of BiH in the context of the contract of succession, this problem, related to the pensioners that the gentleman is talking about, was not envisaged. He continues to say that, unfortunately, the original of that letter has now given the former Radical, until he has yet to betray the SRS, Nikolic, and that the original letters have been lost. So, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, which you have negotiated and who are negotiating the rights of people who have had to come from the former republics to Serbia and live here, the question for you is – how do you care about the lives of these people? Who is involved in this, where did this difference of funds that this gentleman writes about, and there are many pensioners from BiH who never got that pension difference? It's impossible that it went missing somewhere between Sarajevo and Belgrade, but it's probably divided somewhere between Sarajevo and Belgrade. It certainly is one of the affairs you never wanted to talk about here. It is not only the case with pensions, in general, that the Serbian state's relationship with Serbs who are from the former republics of the SFRY, not with their own will, came to live in Serbia is such that after so many years, they feel like foreigners not only because they were not born here, but because Serbia treats them machetely. So I would ask that a stenogram relating to this letter be sent to the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to get an answer and that both to this gentleman and to all the people who have been damaged in this way be able to give the right answer, but I would pray, if there is a corruption affair here too, that we are properly informed about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4599	Thank you. I understand the objection you are giving me, but since the amendment has been submitted until the start of the principle debate, so in time, and the amendments submitted by the President of the National Assembly directs to the MPs in the follow-up procedure, since no one has withdrawn the amendment, nor has Mr Veroljub Arsic, nor has the SRS parliamentary group, had any other option but to remain and remain in the procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic. By the way, I've paraphrased members 145 and 146.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4600	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you are legally-formally right when you refer to these members you have read for public and MP reasons. But it would be an impossible mission, because someone no longer exists in the National Assembly, so they can't even withdraw the amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, because it's like a suitcase. He's no longer a radical. He's sitting in the O.R. right now, but I don't know who he is, what he represents here. Citizens? It's Saturday today, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. During Predrag Markovic, a practice was established that citizens could come on Saturdays. Please provide us with a list of citizens who signed up to attend the National Assembly session today, this Saturday, let's see. Or are those other faces? You know, there are some dangerous guys out there. So the thing is very serious and we need to know, since we agree to work on Saturdays, are these the people who... They are in every sense dangerous, for malfeasance and machination, for fraud, etc. When it comes to these things, you know, it can't be someone who's no longer that on behalf of such serious parliamentary groups withdraws the amendments. On the one hand, you're right, it couldn't be done, it's an amendment to the SRS and someone who's known for the radicals, but now it turns out they were people who had been cheating on themselves the whole time, and then all the people around them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4601	Mr. Marash, by amendment, then Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4602	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I must once again express my gratitude for the relationship that Minister Malovic has shown so far towards the Parliament itself and the MPs and the laws we have discussed. I think it should be a role model for all ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, to show such a relationship towards the Assembly. I have reported to the game of this amendment, unlike colleagues from the SRS who, I believe, have reasonable doubts about the state's relationship with corruption, or through the experience it teaches us, through the anti-corruption council, they have submitted amendments to erase the entire chapter. We of the LDP have tried to fix this agency law with several amendments, but I must say, by amendment to Article 46, we predict that this member is deleted. We don't quite understand how, Madam Minister, such a member of this law. I'd read it, because I think it's very important. Article 46 states: "Articles 44 to 4 and 45 of this Act do not apply to a functioner who is a board member, i.e. a member of a board of directors and supervisory board of public undertakings, institutions and other organisations whose founder is a municipality or city. The provision of Article 1 also refers to a functioner who is a member of the board of directors and supervisory board of public undertakings, institutions and other organisations whose founder is the Republic, autonomous province or the city of Belgrade, if he does not receive a fee based on membership. "I agree with you, Madam Minister, simply, there has been an error in the procedure and this amendment has not been seduced and has not passed, so the mistake is on us. I ask you once again to consider this member of the law, for the simple reason that we believe there is no reasonable reason for municipal officials and board members in public enterprises, through cities across Serbia, to be freed from the obligation to file reports on their property. We're all aware that these companies... I can talk specifically about the city I come from, about Novi Sad, where there are a large number of public enterprises that really have great power. There's a great possibility of corruption. I'm not saying that there was, I'm not accusing anyone, but I'm saying that there's no obligation to report property for some board member, that no one gets angry, I really don't have any bad intentions, let's just say, the City Building Office or the New Sad Urban Institute... Being a member of such a board of directors is a tremendous privilege, not because of monthly money but because of power, because of the influences that members of these committees have. If this stays, we'll really have an open door for corruption in municipalities, cities. Remember, there are 160 municipalities in Serbia. In these municipalities, there are a tremendous number of officials, a large number of board members and supervisory boards. The second view of this member suggests that either those members of the board of directors and supervisory board of public undertakings or an institution whose founder is the Republic, an autonomous province or the city of Belgrade are not obliged to submit a report on the property unless their membership is paid. You see, I think the wrong picture has been created in public that people who take power in the Republic, the province, the city, etc. They fight over boards of directors only because of their salaries on boards. We just heard, the other day, what pay they have on some boards. However, you have boards of directors where there is no fee. It is not a source and a possibility of corruption just because someone is paid or not as a member of the board of directors. The power that someone has as a member of the board of directors, an influence that creates the possibility of corruption. As a member of the board of directors, along with other colleagues, many can create the possibility of being financially exploited. First of all, it's a position he has. We think we should take care of this member of the law. I hope other fellow Members of the Assembly agree. Not accusing anyone, it's really not my intention, looking straight into the future, to be a member of a board of directors and supervisors or a public official without submitting a report on the property... I am deeply convinced that everyone in this room will agree that a member of the board of directors, for example, the New Sad City Building Institute has much more power than I do as a National MP, or anyone here, and the possibility of being corrupt, for the simple reason that we all know what this institution in Novi Sad represents, or the Office of Urbanism, etc., and if it is paid, and if it is not paid. So, I'm telling you, there are a lot of boards in which members do not receive compensation, but because of their position and influences that they have, they can give someone the opposite benefit and, ultimately, to themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4603	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4604	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I would like to draw attention to the opposition's desire to correct its amendments to the law so that it is much better than it has been proposed. Based on the practice and experience we've had for years, we think we need an extremely large repair. The fight against corruption has been going on for years, and never to deal with corruption, but in one real and correct way. We always go in "paperology," it's become modern, but when something concrete is to be done, then it stops. It is devastating that these days a member of the ruling coalition comes out for a pay phone and says: the biggest mafia is the gas mafia, I will announce on Monday who are the mobsters, who are the mediators, who takes the money, and how. What do we from the opposition say then? What kind of agency are we talking about? What kind of fight against corruption are we talking about, if the people who exercise power and who propose law to us, the agency, and the order comes out for a pay phone and say, that's the mob of huge proportions, we're going to expose, warn the government, etc.? Therefore, I would like to ask the ruling coalition – sit down and clear with yourself if you really want to fight corruption. If you wish, allow mechanisms of control and opposition. There could be a fight against corruption if the fighting engine is an opposition. The opposition has an interest in raising real issues in the fight against corruption. Let's not talk about reporting property and some "paper" stuff now, and we know that half the politicians are reporting their businesses, their companies in another's name. We know that some people are millionaires, billionaires, and they have no property, they have nothing, they have no poverty, they live in 50 square meters. When they show up somewhere, you go out there and they say they're the richest in Serbia, and you say -- maybe. They have what the former Justice Minister Batic was talking about -- they have action. They bring paper, hand over and lift as much as they want, and they don't have any of the property. We can confiscate them now, the poor regiment, they don't even have coffee cups when you go to them; they have a limited number of visits, sorrows and misfortunes to catch you when you analyze them. I would ask you from the ruling coalition to reconsider your behavior. I don't want to tell you stories here right now, but many of you gentlemen have companies that work for the state, for the government, get mandatory jobs in tenders, not to talk about the city of Belgrade, and in all of Serbia, they have huge companies that make millions. Of course, those companies of theirs are under someone's name, and the sparrows know whose companies they are. So, gentlemen, sit down and clear that up with you. These registrations in someone else's name – you will ask them tomorrow to confiscate the property, and those people have nothing. So we need to discuss it. That's why we wanted to talk a little bit and fix it with amendments and get it in order, but, as you can see, the amendments were rejected. You make certain laws, here's a law of conflict of interest, you form a team, and nobody respects it, it's not binding for anyone. Now if someone told you that you're in conflict of interest, it's like he said "good afternoon," you say -- nothing, we push on, we don't touch anything, and they say -- so they're in conflict, the Constitution says, the law says, and we say -- we don't care. So we're wasting our time here making up some laws, passing some laws that no one respects. Therefore, political parties have large businesses. The political parties have electronic media, and that's forbidden, and we know it well, that they've been campaigning for 24 hours and no one can touch them. They don't even have a license, they don't have anything, they do what they want. Therefore, this venison that has arisen and in the media is very problematic. That's what we need to talk about. That's why we have as much corruption as you want. Corruption is at every turn. Corruption is on every corner, and we're forming some agencies that are going to be some kind of letter on paper again. Of course, someone who is not political or party-like will pay. We're gonna do it a little bit in the media, and it's gonna go the way it's gonna go, 'cause nothing good is going to happen. We had an affair about professors, colleges, bribes; arrested people, all returned to work. I don't know if anyone's talking about the Customs Mafia anymore. We said, in the military, there was the biggest robbery in Serbia's history. What happened to that? Nothing. Nobody even mentions it anymore. An affair opens up when something interesting happens, a little bit of writing, something that's very important, to get through and, of course, move on. What happened now, what Mr. Canak said about this pay phone, we expect on Monday, and we have to discuss it, whether the 60 percent gas collection for the citizens was because the mob was small. The Mafia wants more. He says, when you have power, we want our share, it has to be much bigger. We've been listening here to some explanations that were inappropriate to one parliament, to explain it in such a way. To collect gas 60%, and someone from the ruling coalition to explain why the hoarding is done, it's a disaster. I think the government needs to wash that mark off itself or resign. The second thing, to collect phone connections for three times, to pick up a 100% impulse, that's impossible, there's no excuse for that. Winter is coming, people are in big trouble, Serbia is already starting to freeze. You saw that the temperatures were low this morning in mountain-mounted areas. When winter comes, there will be a lot of problems. So, please, you in the ruling coalition, clear up what this is all about. We expect a serious explanation Monday against these accusations of Nenada Chanka. We agree with him that this needs to be reconsidered and I support him with all my heart to make this public, regardless of our political differences, but he has come up with one topic that is very interesting and we have to get it through to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4605	Ms. Marina Ragush, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Articles 225 and 226. Mr. Ilic gave good cream for what I want to apostrophe now and during today. This story doesn't end here. Of course, this story will continue for the next few days. One of the reasons why SRS MPs often go out on the basis of these members is just yesterday's session of the Energy and Industry Committee, from which only Mr Chanka's position was transferred in the media, which announces a shootout with what he says is the gas mafia, and thus organised crime. SRS MPs, who have been dealing with crime for many years, are eager to see how far Mr. Canak will go and what it will mean in the final collection. We just asked and asked the Minister of Energy and Industry to explain how they think the citizens will respect that obligation. This is about the public. Now let me get to the specific point why I actually answered. Of course, I use the presence of the distinguished Minister Ms. Malovic; I really don't know which time I thank you for your very patient and dedicated monitoring of the exposure of political inexperiences and indeed slowly but surely assure me that you will do something about those problems that bother us. Some time ago, Dr Vojislav Seselj had to vote in The Hague for the basic right to a fair trial by strike a hunger strike. It is totally inadmissible within the framework of international public law and what is called a sense of justice. In the first place, I appeal to your qualifications, your professionalism and your sense of justice. We noted the other day that the UN tribunal's prosecution submitted a submission requesting the imposition of lawyers by Dr Vojislav Seselj, which in the final assembly means life-threateningness. This is an overture for what I'm trying to do right now. The Russian Federation, of course, came to meet us then. Had it not been for the engagement of Russian diplomacy, Dr Vojislav Seselj would not have been met with the request, and that man, as a prisoner suspected of certain crimes, protected by presummation of innocence, would not have had the opportunity to continue his prison life. What is very significant is that Mr. Churkin, at the 63rd session of the UN General Assembly, expressed reasonable doubt in the impartiality of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and explained this in the following way... I'm sorry if I'm taking too much time, but just to finish the thought, this is very important and thank you for understanding. So: "Russia has reason to suspect the impartiality of the court, especially after the release of Ramush Haradinaj, accused of torture and mass murder of the Serb population. For the first time in the history of the international judiciary, witnesses in the work were subjected to uncovered blackmail and intimidation. They were often also physically removed. What is more, such facts have been carried out in the atmosphere of total impunity, regardless of the presence of international forces in Kosovo," Curkin said, concluding that this "will remain an indelible black stain on the reputation of the International Court for the former Yugoslavia". We from this place, because it's the only place from which we can appeal to the formation of a fairer and fairer world, we've been pointing to this for years. Now I'm defining the question: what will the Justice Department do about people who have been subjected to the brutal action of Ramush Haradinaj? And, of course, to repeat the question, what will they do in the situation of imposing lawyers on any inmate of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia? We were called by some foreign journalists yesterday. The final strategy of the International Tribunal is near; there is reasonable doubt that the cases will end much faster than justice allows. We are interested in what will the Justice Ministry do when it comes to citizens of Serbia and are prisoners of the UN tribunal?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4607	National MP Paja Momcilov submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter IX and the members 69 to 72 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Momchilov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, I see that my predecessors thank you; I do not want to thank you, I would commend you for, if we look at earlier ministers who came to this house and how they acted, you are indeed one sacred example. I'd like to move on to the amendment itself. You heard the saying of the amendment I filed in front of the SRS. In fact, like we said, you saw that we felt the whole law shouldn't be passed. Here, I also thought that chapter IX entitled Registration and Data Protection, which contains articles 69 to 72, should also be deleted. Someone might say it is a kind of political nihilism for us Serbian radicals, who only deny the need for modern European legislation. I will allow myself, within the time I have, to convince you that we Serbian radicals, for rational reasons, do not feel that we need to introduce this agency. You've already been able to hear the legal aspect, well explained by our legal experts. Mr. Martinovic elaborated this matter in detail, and I wouldn't hold on to it. If we look at what you call a path to Europe, through the adoption of European conventions and the rules that need to be adopted, we certainly know that much has been adopted, but it's interesting one thing - that you haven't adopted any of it. The question is why you didn't adopt it. The United Nations adopted the Anti-Corruption Convention on 31 October 2003, and we ratified it in 2005 and it is not disputed. The Criminal and Legal Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe was adopted on 21 January 1999, and we ratified it in 2002. However, the Additional Protocol, adopted on 15 May 2003, where it is said to bribe arbitration, whether foreign or domestic, that it must be sanctioned by laws, we have not ratified. The question is why we didn't ratify it. The Civil Law Convention on Corruption adopted the Council of Europe on 4 November 1999. We haven't ratified again. Which is why we haven't ratified, that's a question that's unclear to me. Namely, what does this convention foresee? It envisions protecting citizens who are damaged by corrupt activities. You see, in chapter nine, in article 72, you here and how you worry about protecting officials who would eventually be damaged by some false tip and if they were found not to be guilty. What about the citizens? The convention that obliged us to sign it, why wasn't it signed? Is it signed? Maybe in the meantime, the minister tells me; then I'm not informed enough. What is quite clear is that by joining the Council of Europe, we have become part of the GRECO team. It's a body that fights, a group of countries that fight corruption. What's interesting is we got 25 points from that team after an inspection they did in 2005 from September 12th to 17th. Of course, after that, we got a strategy. What a man has to admit, we have a whole series of laws, I'm not going to list them now, which we've adopted, and which we're supposed to fight corruption. What is quite enough and interesting to me, by amending the 2002 Criminal Code, is the chapter on corrupting actions in health care, the judiciary, and not to list now how this law regulates everything. It's taken a step forward and it's defined in an even more precise way where everything can find corruption so that it can be fought. Also, the Code of Criminal Procedure and a whole series of other laws have been passed, changed precisely to this end. That's not controversial. What is controversial is how we stand with corruption. My colleagues have already spoken here. According to Gallup's research, and Transparency International also gives that analysis, we are in 79th place of all countries. In Europe, there are three countries that are behind us, we all know that, not to repeat, Macedonia, Montenegro and I think it is BiH; then all other countries go. What's indicative, according to their measurements, we haven't moved very much since 2003, we've only improved by 1.1 index points, as they count. Practically, we tap in place. The more interesting thing is the other thing. Interestingly, Mr. Kos, President of GRECO, he is Slovenian, he says, approximately, that the adoption of the law will not be enough, because in practice corruption seems very little to contain, moreover, we have examples, as well as in the case of health care, that regulations that directly promote corruption and are an example of conflicts of interest have been put into effect since 11 December. So, all these legal regulations that we've passed, it's an assessment of the Council of Europe and there are serious objections, there's no one here, there's no sanctioning corruption, and that's a big problem, and it's gonna be safe if you want to go to Europe. It is already a widely accepted position from the domestic expert public dealing with this problem, that we have such a situation. If we look at the situation of corruption, I'd stay a little longer, I hope I don't abuse your attention, health care is considered the most corrupt. The Transparency International came out again this year, and in Vienna they issued a statement that it was the world's Barometer of Corruption, which the Gallup Agency has been doing again, in the world's most corrupt health care. I'm a doctor and I'm kind of interested in it and guesses it. You see the situation with our country when it comes to health care: according to the World Bank corruption index last year, it was at one consultation, we were in fourth place, and that's this chart right here that was shown at that conference. Who's worse than us? Tajikistan, Moldova and Morocco. The others aren't interested in being numbered. And in the country, they did research on what it looks like in health care. Then the "New Serbian Political Thought" of Health put us back in charge. According to one of their studies and research, health care is the most corrupt -- 18.9% of people think we're corrupt, and then the government goes, so the police, etc. What's the latest and the freshest, "Strategic Marketing" was doing a press study in 2007. They're interested in whether they're corrupt and, thank God, they're not too corrupt for us and for us. Politicians are the most corrupt, so the judges. Then I'm not surprised that the Belgrade District Court can pass a verdict like this and that the Kragujevac District Court can pass such a verdict, when, behold, they are so high-ranking. Unfortunately, health care is here, too, right now. How about the Radicals are constantly criticising and it's mostly the women who complain about the evil fate of this people, here's someone from your closest society, your family, so I say, the Open Society Fund, in co-operation with the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights in Serbia, the Educational Policy Centro and the Ambassadors of the Environment, published a report on the state of human safety for 2005 and 2006. Big publication, one big book. Here's the conclusion, he says, "Health in Serbia currently looks like a house without foundation. At first glance, it's getting nicer and better but the system is full of inadequacy, unstable and unsustainable. There is no firm and clear regulation, and there are no laws and no respect for them, and there are many bad solutions." I am now reading because of this second piece and the follow-up on corruption, it says this: "Unquestionably present, from petty bribery of medical and non-medical staff, through the acquisition of functions and professional titles, to certain highly suspicious tenders for the supply of medical equipment and construction works." Please, you know how much money has been invested in health care, in building and restoring capacity. Who's even talking about whether there's corruption in our country and who's doing it? When we ask for relevant information, then we come across a wall of silence, we encounter an impenetrable blight. At this point 40 health projects are going, and 29 are already completed; the smaller parts are financed by the international community, donations, and are mostly funded by loans. But when we ask who the perpetrators are, who's how much they got, and for what, you can't get it, and when we want to find out what's done, you won't find it anywhere, not on the health ministry sites, not anywhere. My predecessor here was Mr. Velija Ilic. In "Kuru" yesterday, he made a statement yesterday that two major corruption affairs had also been discovered in the health ministry. He accused me of, I think, Mr. Dinkic, and if I'm wrong, I'm sorry. Why am I telling this whole story? By increasing the number of these agencies and inaction, you already have a bunch of laws you don't apply. Now you force another institution on this people's back to support it, and the question is what effect you'll have in the first place. I don't want to talk about bureaucracy, and she is a big problem. Max Webber thought she was something ideal for an organized society. Let's get out of this, let's see how we stand with government employees, government, etc. Milosevic was criticised and his time that he was then an expensive government and that the apparatus was too bulky. The IMF and those who know insist on reducing the administration in Serbia. You know that well. What do you care about that, you don't respect it. Here's the evidence. In 2001, 8,099 people were employed in the public administration, on 30 April 2007, without the MUP, BIA, the foreign ministry, the Ministry of Defence and the Administration of Institute Sanctions. May 2008 - 27,891 employees, without the MUP and BIA. What are you doing? You're increasing one big, parasite machine and you're building an expensive state, and the IMF tells you to cut off the administration. That's how you do it. Cvetkovic's government - two ministers more. So, what'd they figure out? Be careful how cunning Serbs are: when they were distracted that the apparatus in the government was large, the number of state secretaries began to increase, they would not, for God's sake, remain advisers. You now have 49 state advisors instead of 44. I don't think Ivica Dacic has yet to determine his own, we're waiting for him to determine them. The counselor has his own camera, his own cabinet, and that and how he costs it. You see now what it looks like - 80 officials are available today for 24 hours cars; 126 vehicles Management is for our ministers and for their service. But that's not all, we have special, the ministries have their own fleets. Here, I know about the Ministry of Health and I'll tell you: you have 282, plus you have 128 vehicles for sanitary inspection, okay; 49 for health inspection, okay; five - drug inspection, okay; eight units for the implementation of projects for the reconstruction of clinical centres, eight cars for something still hanging in the air; the Secretariat itself has 16 cars, of course, are the most luxurious cars. What's that for? When all of this comes to mind, then we have a situation that we have. That's why we have an expensive country, a party state, because that apparatus is being entered by party listeners and sympathisers, those who have previously filled out the access card, and then they get admitted and then, of course, we have this situation. We appeal from the SRS - enforce the laws, let the law enforcement authorities do their job, let the judges judge and we'll be better off. That's why we don't have money for students today, so they protest, we raise dragon prices like this. (The Chairman - Gordana Komic: Time for the parliamentary group is 15 minutes and 30 seconds, remind you that time has been used. Here, I'm just finishing up. That's why we're asking you not to vote for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4609	Anyone else want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic proposed that the name of Chapter X and Articles 73 - 77 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4610	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law has delayed its reaction, however only in an attempt, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia because all the positive legal norms so far have not prevented the government from fighting corruption. The name - Anti-Corruption Agency is also insufficient in this attempt because crime and corruption are really closely linked. You can't say that some corrupter is also in some corruption affair, some state official, it's a milder variant, because mostly all state officials are in the highest positions from October 5th to today involved in the worst possible criminal activity. When crime and corruption take matters into their own hands, which is said to be a knife, then democratic changes happen, right? That's what happened after October 5th. It has not been a year, Mrs Malovic, and the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, has systematically, thoroughly and very seriously, precisely started to inform the public about the link between the state authorities and the corrupters belonging to the DOS political parties to organised crime and corruption in our society. It was not enough for them to make a huge fortune through various smuggling channels, but at that time the Republic of Serbia's budget was skillfully used for its own purposes, to be enormously rich and to be tailored by the government of the Republic of Serbia in a way that would allow them to gain wealth. The vice-presidents of the DOS government took part in this, above all. Here, there's one in the O.R., Mr. Korać, who, of course, had nothing to do with these mobsters and corrupters, didn't deal with that smuggling and business, I know it for sure, but that's why one of them is, the former boss of Mrs. Hope Kolundzie, and maybe that's why she left him, or she's stuck to this other DOS flock. President Seselj published five books from that anti-mafia and anti-corruption cycle, and their names are "Murder of Defence Minister Pavel Bulatovic", "Glog's stake in the Dossovic heart", "Dosmania as new Janarians", "Cetnik sabers over Dosmanley's head" and "Stanko Subotic - Cane Zhabac, King of the Duvan Mafia". It is, in fact, a chamber of collected court files, a press conference between 2001 and 2002, until the last day; I think the latest conference on organised crime, corruption, the mafia was held at our party's headquarters on February 21st, and you know that on February 24, 2003, Prof. Seselj volunteered to go to the Hague casamat. So he started the entire avalanche and taxed on who these people are, by their names and last names, from one, from the other, from the third clan, which the officials from which the parties are closely connected, what material benefits they gain, how they rob the state budget, and how the law throws them away makes them an illegal benefit. Of course, since he's a very smart man, truly intelligent, to a degree of genius, he's never handled it -- yeah, today I'm only going to go after those who are gathered around Covic's flock, so I'm going to do it for ten days. No, but one day it is one and the other; as one mob clan breaks out, the next day he holds a conference, then the next. That's how he made a clear picture of the dice, connecting people and events, from whoever broke into the federal customs administration through those who were vice-presidents of the government and ministers in the government. Thus, one of the ways to acquire the enormous wealth of the former Deputy Prime Minister mentioned earlier was – behold, the witness is, I am sorry that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic came out of the hall, Mr Micunovic certainly knows, although he was not a minister in the government, but Mr Korac is sure – the insistence of then-President Covic to halt the adoption of a regulation prohibiting the transport of cigarettes through Kosovo and Metohija. For what? Because for every cigarette picker he got directly into his hands, in his pocket 100,000 euros, or 100,000 marks at the time. Not to mention the involvement of Shipar Ekrem Luke, as well as others who led the Federal Customs Administration in our country and who directly belonged to the top of the government. Now it seems, Mrs. Malovic, that you are sitting in one government that is gathered around professional people, competent for this or that area, but it is the same mile you are moving in, only you are now in an institutional sense freed from sitting next to you such a mobster, minister or vice president of the government, excluding, of course, Bozidar Djelic. But when you look at who these people are in the structure of the government, who remain in the institutions of our system, to use the possibility of robbing the state budget, public enterprises, and to be rich in people's torment and to avoid legal regulations, then your situation is the same or almost unchanged. Why do I say that? Because many actors of the tobacco mafia, for example, have never been properly processed. The previous government has launched one action, but I can tell you it's really funny, because the one who is the main organizer and who was ultimately connected to Zoran Djindjic as the first prime minister in the so-called team. democratic change has never been responsible for that. Justice is slow, but it is only a matter of days behind the prison bars to find the second leg of the same tobacco mafia, which is Milo Djukanovic, who has taken the path of separatism and the destruction of everything that is Serbian in Montenegro. What's very important is that we still have reliable information that we are trying in one way or another to make an energetic announcement to the public. We come to this, Mrs. Malovic, that Dr. Vojislav Seselj, the president of our party is not... As a lawyer and as a woman at the head of that resistor, and I believe that you follow the trial on RTS, or a delayed video, you see that it's funny, that those witnesses who appear there, like that before last night, are mildly, retarded, that they don't know what they're saying, that they're instrumentalized there, that they're talking nonsense and disgust about Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Now you have a clear situation as to why the charges against him had to be filed at the time. In those days, when she was so locked up and written, he called all that mob, and who was all from the top of the state government connected to those people. The man published it in his book. Of course, when it comes to everything he didn't get, because he bought a plane ticket from his money (no day or day that the Hague court paid him) and left, we, his associates and, above all, the people who perform the publishing work of "Great Serbia", printed books in which we clearly showed that every word was true and that he was behind every word, like all of us. Why? Because the state wasn't involved in organized crime and corruption. They have been so protected and so many are still favorites of the regime that criminals are protected (Mrs. Malovic, these are spoiled mobsters) that when the police come and come (I will leave the time of one of what they called in public, experts on these issues, he will say what he has, colleagues Vukovic), they, according to their operational findings and under the law, cannot act further because the blockade and hitching of the process is coming, right from the top of the government. Where are we? In a vicious circle. No one will believe that your former ministers and vice-presidents will respond, or MPs. Where's Radulovic? Where are all these people who have abused their position as elected officials? So this is ridiculous. First of all, I asked for the erasure of the criminal provisions for the fact that this agency cannot be found in a role that a para-state body cannot have according to the Constitution. The state should have been really serious and fundamentally concerned with the issue of crime and corruption through the Criminal Code and through all other laws and the mafia behind prison bars. But they continue to rob and do whatever they want. We can, Mrs. Malovic, and I believe that it will be, since you will vote this law, a good lesson and a good path and for this newly elected director who will lead the future agency, we will present all these five books of our president. There are over 5,000 pages of clearly depicting the mafia's actions and trials he has begun. As much as his books are valuable and as much as they can shed light on all the circumstances under which the robbery of the state and the people is making a statement to this guru leader, I'm really not surprised that he's not here today, who leads this political sect, these citizens... You know, maybe their method is that a guru has to meditate on Saturdays and that mantra, maybe does nothing on Saturdays, I really don't know, but anyway, as much as it is... I had to make a little joke, but it's sad that they're still sitting in the congregation. How important every book was, and everything he published and everything he said, risking his life and despite threats to him and his family, says the unfortunate Nikolic, who has been our president's deputy for so many years. Two years ago Tomislav Nikolic answered the question of the journalist "New reporter" – you know, when we are gone, and in Serbia as it should be as a responsible state, every peasant will say, "I have a property, I have a tractor, I have a cattle and I have a book by Dr Vojislav Seselj." Yes, so will every decent citizen and every Serbian peasant, but unfortunately Tomislav Nikolic learned nothing from the books of Prof. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4611	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Time is available to the parliamentary group for three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I'm just going to rely on the discussion of my predecessors. Of course, I will stick to the subject and I will give you a specific case that confirms Mr. Ilic's claim, and Marine Ragush and all my predecessors that we cannot fight corruption or agencies or laws if we do not apply them. Of course, I agree, in order to fight corruption, corruption must not be at the top of the government. I will give only one example of how the current regime and this group of citizens are in line, in particular Tomislav Nikolic. Instead of being dealt with by the authorities, these days they force him and want him and his groups to build a party. This case I'm about to present is also about what Mr. Ilic said about the gas mafia, or Mr. Canak. I want to make a contribution to the fight against the gas mafia with this example. In late 1996, Tomislav Nikolic went to Switzerland, which we know, the Serbian Radicals, because he did not hide from us, for agreements and talks on a project to build a gas thermopower plant in Novi Sad. I remind you that all the media have followed this, and the state, who was all present at the opening of this project. The whole project was run by the company Mentor Energi, registered in Switzerland in 2005. The company was designed to be the operator of the construction of the New Sad thermal power plant. The company's shareholders were Michael Virsmer, Jia Cavdi, Manuel Vernli, Bit Kalin and Milan Bacevic with 18% of the company's ownership. Milan Bačević is a friend of Tomislav Nikolic. The son of Tomislav Nikolic married Milan Bačević's daughter. It's very important that you know. "Mentor Energi" contracted with the Russian company "Technopromeksport", which was supposed to provide a project and construction of the Novi Sad thermal power plant, as well as the necessary amounts of gas from Gazprom. The relationship between Mentor Energi and Tomislav Nikolic and the City of Novi Sad Assembly was at the time controversial businessman Branko Montenegroc. That's the man who opened the bank and didn't have any money in it, so they shut it down. The company's manager, Mentor Energi, is Manuel Vernli, a major Swiss intelligence officer and a British intelligence associate, otherwise active and present in the Balkans during the 1990s. The company's chief funder, Mentor Energi, is Aleksandar Kirzhnev, a Russian emigrant who lives and works in America, and has escaped from Russia after a major debt-related affair, claims, during which he damaged many Russian companies. He's one of the biggest financials of the Republican Party in the United States. In 2007/2008, after learning who is actually behind the company "Mentor Energi", "Technopromexport" and "Gasprom" are withdrawing from the project. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Russians are running from criminals. This Aleksandar Kirzhnev, meanwhile sentenced to prison in America, gives Michael Virsmer 20m euros. (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. Allow me, I'll be done soon. This is very important, Mrs. Comic, you are from Novi Sad and I am convinced that you are also fighting corruption and crime. Allow me, I'll be done in a minute. Virsmer makes 20m euros available because Kirzhnev is convicted in America. Michael Virsmer invests Kirzhnev's money in a gas thermopower plant project in Novi Sad, however, about four-fifths of the money are taken by shareholders for themselves privately, along with a domestic partner. The domestic partners are Bačević and Toma Nikolic. Kirzhnev comes out of prison from America after three years and asks questions about his money. Then he realizes that most of the money is distributed among shareholders and starts with litigation. That's what we'll get in the next period. Everything about $3 million has been spent on real project costs. The project has never been revived, neither has the company obtained any licenses, nor is it authorised by the city of Novi Sad, nor by the government of the Republic of Serbia. He was in charge of security of licenses and licenses... (President: five minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Milan Bačević, who, before Manuel Vernli, was the CEO of the company "Mentor Energi". Thank you, Mrs. Comic, just so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4613	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Momir Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title of Chapter XI and Articles 78 - 83 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, when that democracy, after the October revolution, clapped Serbia, so to speak, ran into Serbia, the first of its tasks set up by the regime in question was the fight against corruption and crime. I remind you that one of the government's vice-presidents, the late Vuk Obradovic, was determined by the government to go into a fierce fight against crime and corruption. And when he realized, that is, when he came up with the documentation that, regardless of what they were ruling, the corruptionist affaires smell, they smell a little bit, and then they were fiercely painted yellow, so the main carriers of that criminal mile came from the top of the DOS, he was asked for that portfolio taken away and his first sentence was that he was removed from the post of vice president of the government. Then DOS formed a Council to fight corruption and crime. Before that, there was another institution, I can't remember exactly who filled the interspace between Obradovic's portfolio and a new council that will now be hard to deal with corruption and crime. Verica Barac, whom you have elected president of the council, also set out to expose the affair, but soon began to crack her wings, the ruling nomenclature. You put her in a position where she could find something, but she had to keep it to herself. She was not allowed anywhere to publish it, not only under the threat of being removed, but under many other threats, even when it comes to personal integrity. The birthplace of corruption in Serbia is DOS, in any aggregate state, whether it is the original or this modified, or this recast, or this one, or this one that has been removed, or this one that is not finished, is quite the same. DOS is a source of corruption, birthplace, a home crime book in Serbia. Before I go any further, I must inform the citizens of Serbia that last night, Belgrade's mayor, in the simplest and most vulgar manner, has cursed the board of the Serbian Radical Party of Mr Zoran Ognjanovic, just because he reminded him of some corruption and criminal affairs in Belgrade, making him, making him his first, second, third and other associates. Of course, I don't justify Gilas, but I can understand, because Gilas is gunned down. First, how can someone reveal what was being secretly done to make it public now, and on the other hand, it was the mayor's place to earn it. Profits can be paid, profits can be trade, I won't prejudge anything, but it's known how it's being solved: how much it costs – as much; money trail, trade route. It's a finished story. There are indications that some who were supposed to be at the top of the city's authorities afterwards began buying watches of nine and a half thousand euros, drinking 1,000-euro wine, wearing a thousand-and-a-half-euro suit. Before that, Gilas paid for it fairly. So, I remind you that DOS went off with affairs immediately; October 6th, one of your tops (not chief) put a sock on his head, took a rifle and three more and flew into the National Bank. What happened to the vaults at the National Bank, what happened to what was in the vaults? I don't want to bid now, but I know reliably that some of the artistic paintings of the fabulous values that were in the register of the Yugoslav Museum of History, just given to the People's Bank to stand on the walls, disappeared. Let me remind you of Carina: the famous Zabunović, who was one of the feathers and the Dossov's "buldozer of the Revolution", flew into Carina and forced Kertes to sign to voluntarily leave the place of Director of Customs. The first thing he did (after you arrested him), he picked up all his invoices and all his debts customs and ripped up, put aside. Of course, who's he gonna do it to if he doesn't do it to himself first. Not to remind you now of that famous Cyprus. A few of your ministers were going back then. Vela Ilic went and found four and a half billion dollars in Cyprus -- they stayed in Cyprus. Vladan Batic went, found that there are still four and a half billion dollars in Cyprus, the Serbian money that was exported at the time of sanctions. I don't know who else went. There goes Mladjan Dinkic to find out that there are four and a half billion dollars there, but they were no longer in Cyprus, but they went to some Seseljska, Bahamas, Virgin and various other exotic islands, and it seems to me that... And Cayman, that's right, Mr. Milivoevich, couldn't have that kind of money on an island. The island would sink. It seems to me that the money that now appears in these privatisations is actually our money, which Dinkic saved on these exotic islands and now buys our factories, our country. Our money for our country and everything remains ours. It's Dinkic, though. It's a little more yours. When the Serbian Radical Party takes over, it will be ours; that is, the police minister, so he will be his, or the director of the Office for the Implementation of Office Sanctions; then Dinkic will be his. You're making up, ladies and gentlemen from the yellow company, various bodies, organs, institutions. You're divorcing the system, and none of these institutions can do anything. Bureaucracies. Mr. Paja Momchilov told you nicely that you raised the number of staff in the administration from eight to 28 thousand, 28 thousand. You should have paid those who beat you into pots, those who actually led you into the pots, led those who wore the banners of the "buldozer of revolution", who burned the assembly, etc. There's nothing for free. Free cheese, as one man once said, is only in a mouse hunter. All this, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and citizens of Serbia, is not done to detect and combat crime and corruption. On the contrary, as soon as the affair is revealed, it is spoken of for three days, and on the fourth day a new affair is revealed; you have made them so much that every other day can be discovered by one, the old one goes under the carpet. None of the government institutions took to clear up the affair by affair, but this one under the carpet, so now we're talking about the next one. Gasna will soon go under the carpet, because it will be found that she has magically robbed the government again for Serbia's enormous money, Serbian citizens. That's how this gas affair is going to go down, unless you find the price of Nenado Canka with two public enterprises, or how you're already solving those problems, and then he's going to calm down too. He'll finally realize the price has to be that high. I repeat the question - why does the natural gas produced in Serbia not go to households, in Vojvodina is taken from our sites, which is far cheaper than the import gas and why are households burdened with a weighted price? The price of imported gas is far higher, the price of domestic gas is lower; then it is evened and the weighted price is made, so that's where the state is installed. The second question is, why doesn't the state give up the margins? Look at the price of gasoline, half of it goes to the state. Why doesn't the state in this case give up the margins on the natural gas it takes? You invented the gas mafia. It's not the gas mob, it's the yellow mob, it's just changing the aggregate state. Because when it came to cementers, then it was the cement mob, when it comes to gas, it was the gas mafia, so the educational mafia, so the road mob, it's all yours. If it wasn't for the folk that "the crow's neck isn't coming out," you'd all be stuck in jail a long time ago. Only a few of whom you accuse and prosecute appear; it is he who did not steal, but who did not share. In the end, let me go back to the amendment. I have submitted an amendment to Chapter XI and Articles 78 to 83 with a proposal to delete. The government says it does not accept the amendment for reasons given for not accepting the amendments of MP Aleksandr Martinovic. I have to read this part, the amendment refers to titles and articles from 78 to 83. First: "The day of application of this law ceases to be the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions", to Article 83, which says: "This law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the 'Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia', and will apply from 1 October 2009. "You left a year to finish your jobs, to pick up the carpet, to push something else under it, to get this mob of yours in various aggregate states to finish the job, and only then will you start applying this law. If you wanted, Verica Barac and the late Vuk Obradovic could finish the job and cut the mafia in its roots. You don't need any work body, no group, no advice and no committee, you don't need any agency. He's got enough resources to get the mob cut in the bud. Our judiciary has capable, educated, honest and honorable judges. I don't mean Mrs. Kragujevac and this case at the Belgrade District Court. Everyone else works honestly, honestly and honestly. I know that the judiciary is in a difficult situation and humane and material, but they do their job fair and square. You have mechanisms to stop the mob. You didn't do it, your agency didn't do it. What is symptomatic here, he says - no amendment is accepted for reasons given under the amendment of Mr Martinovic. Mr Martinovic's amendment applies to members1. And two, where the interpreters are interpreted as being used in this law, where they list what's going to be called any of the parts of this agency, what's the face, what's the private interest, etc. What does my amendment have to do with Mr. Alexander Martinovic's amendment to make the argument the same? And what does the Law of 1st Law and Articles 78 - 83 have to do with it? Absolutely different members. I think these people who helped Mrs. Minister prepare this hated writing a second explanation. I can't say they're not capable, they're very capable, at least they've prescribed the law from some Western countries, which is why it's inadmissible. They're capable of copying, so at least they could rewrite some other explanation that's more similar to the amendment I've submitted. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest you press the green button in the voting day and vote for this amendment. Then at least we'll stop the government from making these laws that we're now passing by emergency procedure... Because at an emergency session, all these laws were in an emergency procedure, as soon as possible, Europe can't wait, and now we're delaying for a year. I suggest you adopt this amendment and any amendments submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs, as well as those submitted by some citizens who were then MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4615	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan J. Nikolic submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 82a be added after article 82a. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Finance of Political Parties (single) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic, Igor Bečić, Milan Škrbić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milorad Buha, Sreto Perić and Mirko Munjic on the bill. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a reminder again, as was the case with this previous law I spoke of, we have an amendment to the SRS parliamentary group submitted on 25 September 2008, and on behalf of the parliamentary group of amendments was then signed by SRS MP Veroljub Arsic. As for us Serbian radicals, it is unacceptable, and based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and impossible, that Veroljub Arsic, who has been excluded from the SRS, is still sitting here as a national MP. This is a problem that the assembly majority does not want to discuss, nor does it want to address the issue of SRS's kidnapped amendments, or a question directly related to electoral will and electoral theft. I remind all the MPs and the public in Serbia that electoral theft is considered one of the most serious crimes, that there are certain sanctions for violating the electoral will of citizens. None of these disfellowshipped members of the SRS can say, they never really could, and especially not now, that one of them is individually responsible for the result, or that one of them thinks he has the right to have 15,000 votes won by the Serbian Radical Party in each parliamentary term. Because it is obvious that those who now act and act as MPs here, and these are not, that their leaders (not only know with certainty who will be first, how they will share it, because they say they have two leaders), those two leaders, publicly state that they will not have a political programme, that they will not have any ideology, that they have reduced the borders of the great Serbia to the borders of Bajcetina - Belgrade. So, if the SRS voters had heard from them then, we would certainly not have this number of seats, or this number of votes, because the SRS voters are voting for SRS because of the ideology of the SRS, the ideology of Serbian nationalism, because of Professor Vojislav Seselj, who is the president of the SRS. It is certain that someone who now gives up all that, who has changed overnight, cannot inherit the will of the voters, or the votes of the SRS. After all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow that either. I don't know how much a man must fall morally to continue sitting in a parliamentary bench in addition to all these remarks, to spend money on Serbian citizens and not an MP. Of course, it will be appreciated by voters in some future period, but we Serbian radicals want to fight for what is the right of the SRS, which are the mandates that were won in the last parliamentary elections. We will remind you every time and every day that you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, are complicit in this criminal act, that, in fact, Boris Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic did this together with the American ambassador, or under his patronage, Ambassador Manter, with whom Nikolic met publicly, as he boasted, and thus only confirmed that he had met in secret before. Unfortunately, we didn't know that in time. Our president, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, warned in time and knew what was going on, but he had no one to talk to. You know, according to that folk, "grandma gave a dinar to get in the wheel, she'd give five to get out." They got into what they got into, that's their problem. It is certain that one day he will come under the influence of the Criminal Law and under the influence of this agency that we have just discussed and which, by the way, is unconstitutional, but it is something that some other organs will solve. We want, above all, because of our voters, to draw attention to the fact that the Serbian Radical Party has been kidnapped and that the dictatorial regime of Boris Tadic is responsible. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties, we have proposed the individual erasure of all seven members of this bill, for the simple reason that this law stems from the Anti-Corruption Agency law, which now has certain competences in the financing of political parties. Since we have already explained for two days that this agency is unconstitutional, that it is not a state body, then the logical consequence is that this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties cannot be applied. Thank you very much. You yourself have confirmed, by adopting these two amendments by fellow MPs from the SPS-JS parliamentary group, that you are not actually ready to fight or to deal with corruption and crime, and that all of what we are doing here is actually throwing dust into the eyes. In the very proposal for a law, you provided that it enters into force on 1 October 2009, and you accepted the amendment to apply the Anti-Corruption Agency Act on 1 January 2010; then, that the official who performs several public functions on the day of the application of this law is obliged to declare within 90 days of the date of application of this law which the public function will continue. So, the law takes a turn-in, we work Fridays late, we work Saturdays, you pass that law, it goes into effect within eight days of the day of adoption, but it applies only on 1 January 2010. Then those who fall under the sanctions provided for by this previous law may, as of 1 January 2010, have 90 more days to garden for two, three, five, seven, not knowing how many functions and in the meantime, identify which function they will choose. This is really so unserious and so irresponsible that it leaves anyone who is seriously involved in this business without a word! It would be good, Mrs Malovic, just because of what I have now stated, to accept our amendments and to withdraw from the procedure, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties, because this bill says it will enter into force on 1 October 2009. Before that, you say in Article 6: "The closer content of the report referred to in Article 14(2) and Article 16(5) and the record referred to in Article 16(4) of the Law, the director of the Agency," it is said of this anti-corruption agency, "he is obliged to arrange within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. "Now, how will this director act in accordance with this law 30 days from the date of entry into force of the law, which you say enters into force on 1 October, and he will be the director only after 1 October 2009, on 1 January 2010. So either you should have agreed with yourself and come out here before the MPs with some serious proposal, or don't play with us. What exactly did you want with this? This law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties in Article 1 on which this amendment is submitted, you say: In the Law on the financing of political parties in Article 14(1), the words "Republic Election Commission" are replaced by the words "Corruption Agency". And, instead of the minister, the director of the agency is in charge. This refers to reports submitted by political parties participating in the elections after each RIK election. Since the work of political parties is financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. by the resources of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then the spending of these funds can only be controlled by the competent authority, the Constitution provides, and we have already found that this agency to which you would leave this job is unconstitutional and is not a state body. It's going to form the way we talked about yesterday. There will be a director, someone, of course, from the ruling coalition. You actually want to control party financing and party financing reports, funding reports in the course of the elections, to put all of this under the hands of one man, or one political party - the Democratic Party. Why are we saying this? The Republic Election Commission, as well as the Financial Committee, is made in a parity relationship with the number of seats in the National Assembly and then can certainly exist and should have certain control and can be expected to be impartial bodies. Now you're talking to us here about someone who's going to be an extra-party person and who you claim to be impartial, and of course there's no way you're going to choose someone who isn't in the will of the DS. Then, when Tomislav Nikolic comes out and says that Miskovic himself paid for a rental car and that he personally paid for a TV show, then with this future director of yours, since he is doing all this with the Democratic Party and Boris Tadic, he will remain unrecorded. I say - personally, because financing the SRS has always been and will be strictly in accordance with the law. No competent authority under the SRS statute is aware of the facts that Nikolic presented, such as we did not have a decision by the Central Ministry on the basis of which he could possibly have raised a loan signed by Nikolic without valid authority and which, of course, caused us to file a criminal report because he thus damaged, or robbed the SRS register, all of which with the aim of weakening the party. The ultimate goal is, in fact, to help The Hague tribunal kill the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj. I repeat, the Serbian Radical Party is stronger than ever, proud of its president and his heroic struggle in The Hague tribunal, as we have always been. We expect him, Serbia is expecting him, his family is expecting him, unfortunately Tomislav Nikolic and his parents. We believe in God and he will come alive and well.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4617	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4618	In accordance with Articles 225 and 226, at the time when two political parties, DS and SPS, sign a treaty, agreement, reconciliation declaration, however, it started thirty minutes ago, we, here and in accordance with this new law that will start to apply from 2010, we do not know what money and two parties will pay for whiskey and cookies that water and suffer this reconciliation agreement. I would like to ask questions first of all, and I hope to receive an answer, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, within eight days, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the SPS, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Given what SPS views he had as we discussed in this Parliament on a number of resolutions on Kosovo and Metohija, what views he had on Eulex, what attitudes the SPS had, and Mr Ivica Dacic himself, during the campaign (based on which votes are likely to be received) on the Eulex and on Marty Ahtisaari's plan, I would like to ask him, and I expect an answer in writing, did the SPS change its policy since we see that it participates in increasing the price of gas, telephone services, possibly VAT, which was also a blow to the citizens' standard, and we were talking about socially responsible government. Does it still stand at the same points of view when it comes to the plan of Marty Ahtisaari and Annex 10, based on which EULEX is stationed in Kosovo, does it support it, since it earlier said it did not support it? Does he agree with President Tadic, who is now signing the agreement, which says EULEX is acceptable in Kosovo and Metohija? Does he agree with Minister Bogdanovic, who said yesterday that a greater presence of the European Union in Kosovo and Metohija is needed? If necessary, we all know, we have spoken in what form, but certainly not what the job of Eulexa - to install the institutions of the state of Kosovo, which is his job under Annex 10 of Marty Ahtisaari's plan, and to create an incompetent Shiptar government in Kosovo, because, of course, criminals cannot make it. So, I repeat once again, I ask Mr Ivica Dacic to answer whether the SPS is behind it, or whether he will join a group of 108 MPs who have submitted a request to the National Assembly and a proposal for a declaration on Kosovo and Metohija in which it clearly and explicitly states that EULEX is unacceptable to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4619	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to you for clarification on the amendment spoken of by my colleague, Veronica Radeta. I think there's been a misunderstanding in terms of when the law comes into force and when a part of the law begins to apply. This agency law shall enter into force within eight days of the day of its publication. The law will therefore enter into force long before 1 October 2009. That's why we gave one period of one year to get the job ready and the agency to start working in 2010 fully trained. So, in a period of one year, we will choose the Director, as it is written in the transitional and final provisions of this law. Article 80 provides for a procedure for the selection of board members, who shall lead the first committee and the committee shall be obliged to elect a Director and Deputy Director within 60 days of the date of the constitution. That committee shall be established in relation to the deadlines from the date of entry into force of this law. Other technical details, such as the content of certain reports and forms, shall be required by the Director of the Agency to establish from 1 October within 30 days. He can do it. So, the agency law before that enters into force, the director will be elected, the whole agency will be formed. We think it is no problem for the director of the agency to establish a report form for political parties, as they submit their report and to establish the content of the report to be discussed further. I am telling you all of this because if you read Articles 16 and 5 and Article 14, Article 14, you will see that it is technical matters, that is, about the patterns established by the Director of the Agency, and since 1 January, the Agency will fully enter into force and will deal with the conflict-of-interest work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4621	The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta, based on article 101, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4622	My colleague Konstantinovic, I'm not legally illiterate. I know neither are you. I understand your need to try to defend the undefense. You've been listening to the opposition's two days, you've heard a lot of bad, not bad, but what's the fact, at the expense of this law on the establishment of a anti-corruption agency. You have heard, we have repeatedly told you that it is an organ, if it can be called an organ, which is unconstitutional, is not foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You haven't had any serious objections to everything we've been saying about the state of corruption at the very top of the country, about various corruption affairs. Of course, I'm not calling you and I have no intention of moving on with you, but since you just said all of this for the public, so that the citizens of Serbia would be convinced that you're right when you say it, and that we're talking about it for the sake of the story, I want to say, first of all, for the sake of the public and for the record, that you're wrong at all. I really believe you're aware of that, because I know you're a good lawyer. So, article 83 says nicely that this law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". No one's questioning that. But it will apply, you have predicted, since 1 October 2009, that by adopting the amendments, you have extended it for more than a year. In the meantime, technically, it will be done, why it takes more than a year and a half to form this non-constitutional agency, to elect that director, etc., but until all this is over, even if you finish it before, you cannot apply the law before the deadline that will be an integral part of the law and will be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". You know that, and we all know that, but don't use time like that; you mean, today's Saturday, lunch ends, so people are in front of TV, monitoring the work of parliament, so you're going to say that you're doing something in accordance with the law. No, what we've been talking about for three days is unconstitutional, illegal, and it's just pointless to bring something back today, and we're going to apply it in 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4623	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4624	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members 100, 103, 226 and many of those members. I would just like to say briefly, to the public, to inform the following: the most abused members of the Rules of Procedure are members of 225 and Article 226, members who speak of the right of MPs to be informed, which is not disputed, but it is the right, it is not a request for a session to be interrupted for the purpose of reacting to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In this democratic practice of ours, we had the opportunity to take care of it to the end, so that every MP would take advantage of his right to address the public with some current subject, some current issues, and I support that. I would like to say that SPS MPs are patiently sitting and waiting to show themselves when it comes to a point that is on the agenda and not responding much. I want to respond this time to a serious abuse that, in fact, Mr. Shormaz used to the end. Mr. Shormaz called for Article 226. A Rules of Procedure that says the MP has the right to be informed, which is not disputed, and to request notice from the president of the Assembly, committee, ministers, officials, etc. He has a right to have an answer to that. I would like to say that MP Shormaz does not have the right to ask the president of one party for information on what the party's policy is and the Socialist Party of Serbia will not answer those questions. The SPS will be responsible here and in front of the citizens for their policies. Now, that's abuse, total abuse. When it comes to the SPS, yes, a reconciliation agreement is just being signed, because the Socialist Party of Serbia appreciates the past, but it does not just want its past to be the future and it does not want us to just fight, split, share. We want to get together and do something in the future. That is what we are responsible for, and we will answer to the citizens of Serbia. When it comes to politics on Kosovo, the Socialist Party of Serbia has not changed its stance. She advocated, advocated, and will always advocate that this is a matter of the most significant national interest and that it is most important to achieve a national consensus on it. Kosovo is not a trade issue. Kosovo is a matter of a couple of excellencies, the most important for Serbia, and the SPS will do everything possible to find a common language and achieve a national consensus on the matter. As for the questions for Mr. Dacic, Minister, Vice President, let Mr. Dacic, like everyone else, answer those questions, but the SPS will not answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4625	The word is requested by MP Dragan Shormaz. There are 11 minutes and 30 seconds left in the discussion of the details of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4626	I didn't even ask Dacic as SPS president, but as the first vice president of the government, given what he promised the citizens in the campaign. I asked him if he agrees with the President of the Republic and with the minister in that government, whose first vice president, who said something quite the opposite of what the SPS was saying in the campaign. He can't run away now, because he's the Deputy Prime Minister, from being from the SPS. He can't get away from it, because he's got a program to run. Your programme is an increase in pensions, and the euro has jumped several dinars. What's that 10% pension increase worth, plus an increase in the price of impulses, plus an increase in the price of gas heating? You don't lower the price of gasoline, even though the price of oil is falling on the world market. There are examples as many as you want. If it's your program, I'm not interested in it, I'm interested in how your MPs vote. We'll see how you vote for the Duke's Statute. We'll see how you vote. Gentlemen, if it's decentralisation... And I trust you to vote with all four hands, I agree, they'll all vote with all four hands, and I agree, because it's only important to divide companies, to have certain people come into office, and goodbye. But is it decentralisation that you say that in Vojvodina money is controlled in the New Sad? So what's the difference for those from Zrenjanin, Pancheva, Sombora, Subotica, Sremska Mitrovica, Ruma? What difference does it make if money is controlled in Novi Sad or Belgrade? Real decentralisation is the regionalisation of Serbia, not the creation of a country in the country. If you participate in this, it will be the opposite of what the SPS programme is and, of course, the citizens will tell their own court about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4627	The DSS Group has 8 minutes and 30 seconds left. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again inexhaustible reasons why such a law is passed, and secondly, which is why amendments by Members of the People are rejected or not accepted. National MP Igor Becic tabled an amendment to Article 2. The bill, which reads, "Article 2 is deleted." Article 2: Paragraph 4 of Article 16 states "the finance minister" is replaced by the words "the director of the agency", and the words "the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in charge of finance" are replaced by "the Agency's Director" and the words "the Finance Minister" are replaced by the words "the Director of the Agency". In an explanation of why the amendment was rejected, why it was not accepted, it is said: "The government does not accept the amendment for reasons given for not accepting the amendments of MP Veroljub Arsic, former MP, and now citizen, "to Article 1. The bill of law." That explanation for Article 1 says: "The government does not accept the amendment because it is of the opinion that the control of political party financing should be carried out by an independent body. "Is the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly a dependent organ? Who's he addicted to? Does this committee depend on the president of the assembly? Do you not trust the committees we formed? Come on, people, let's say it openly, and we'll break up all the boards and get the job done, and we'll break up the Assembly, and then we'll go to the elections and some new assembly will come. It is amazing that the Committee of the National Assembly, the Committee of Finance, which is directly linked to all the financial flows coming from the budget to the National Assembly, is now suddenly an independent body to control, and this one is, by surprise, dependent. He says he specializes in fighting corruption. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, believe that corruption is in political parties? However, I have information that in some "yellow" political parties there is a lot of corruption, but people, you have a militia, you have prisons, you have courts. That's what you're chasing with the means that so far corruption and crime have been prosecuted. He says this solution is in line with the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. What does this mean to you - national? Where is this strategy, and why haven't the MPs gotten it so far, so let's see what your national anti-corruption strategy is? Where is it that you in the national strategy are predicting that it has not been so far? What's stopping you from going into a fierce and determined fight against corruption all these eight years? Is it maybe that birthplace of corruption I was talking about in the previous report? He says, "In addition, we believe that this body is educated in accordance with Article 97 of point 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. "We will now see what Article 97 of point 16: "The Republic of Serbia is regulating and providing security" - so now it goes to 16 and point 16 says: "Organization, jurisdiction and the work of the republican authorities. "Does the Republic of Serbia organise the organisation and work of the National Assembly? Is the National Assembly one of the pillars of the government of the Republic of Serbia? What is it that did not allow the Republic of Serbia so far to implement the point of Article 16 and to regulate the organisation, jurisdiction and work of the republican authorities? Nebulose total. There are also examples that laws are educated by independent and independent state bodies, such as the Information Commissioner. What does the Information Commissioner have to do with access to information where citizens can access information that has been held behind nine locks, stored, because any information can be sent to a minister, say, jail? We have now voted in favour of the Commissioner for Information and we and the team who assist in the preparation of the defence of Prof. Vojislav Seselj very often use the institution of the Commissioner for Public Information to prepare, find, provide documentation that Dr. Vojislav Seselj will defend himself in The Hague. However, we did so until some domestic traitors published, for God's sakes, a transcript in one, for God's sake, the newspaper, in the press of public disinformation, and said that, for God's sake, a meeting was held where Dr. Vojislav Seselj abused himself... Completely fictional, but trendy and therefore Dr. Vojislav Seselj cannot report to a defense-prepared team for a month, which is why he cannot bring his defense to the level that he might need. It is an attempt to directly prevent Dr Vojislav Seselj from defending himself. So it has nothing to do with the Commissioner for Information with the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, which has so far controlled the work of political parties and the financing of political parties and which has so far done so very successfully. But you want to build an agency, a prenup was born, and you need to put it on, and you need to prepare the material, something to do with the agency. You know he won't be able to work, because the first case he gets caught up in, the roots will be with one of the senior DOS officials. Because of this attempt to push this into a corner, to now discuss whether the political parties receiving certain funds at the expense of having a certain number of MPs use those funds in accordance with the law... Billions pass to the other side, but you will fight, or you will doubt an institute called the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly. While I'm at the defense of Professor Vojislav Seselj, I must remind you: all who are following the trial heard recently, three or four days ago, that Professor Vojislav Seselj asked the UN tribunal's council to provide him with complete information, documents and documentation on the encounter of a man with David Tolbert, Assistant Attorney General Carla del Ponte. It was established that Tomislav Nikolic met secretly with Deputy Prosecutor Carla del Ponte several months ago in a town in Hungary. What was said there, what was agreed -- this is exactly what the results are, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and citizens of Serbia. The betrayal was complete, the betrayal was deeply prepared and prepared to prevent Dr Vojislav Seselj's trial from being tried, to impose on him a lawyer, to strike hunger and to die and to kidnap his party in this way. See how low people who trusted Dr Vojislav Seselj, the trust of the Serbian Radical Party and the trust of voters and supporters of the Serbian Radical Party can fall. This issue was discovered to the end. We will see what the tribunal will deliver to Dr Vojislav Seselj and see what the citizen Tomislav Nikolic has agreed to do, in what way to kill the Duke.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4629	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of all amendments by the MPs of the SRS, when it comes to this law, is that it is necessary to delete the anti-corruption agency from the bill, primarily for those reasons that we pointed out - that it is an institution of a very suspicious legal nature that has no basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, I must refer to the explanation why amendments to the SRS MPs are not accepted. However, one is no longer a folk MP, but a citizen, but these others are still MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. First of all, Madam Minister... Mr. Cossic, I don't know if you're holding any blame for not accepting these amendments or for the minister? Confirmed. If you're carrying it, then I'll talk to you. So, Mr. Cossic, I assume you were involved in writing these explanations. It's not called "an independent organ", because it's independent of one who doesn't envy anyone; it's supposed to be said "independent", one who doesn't depend. Take some account also of the terminology, spelling and grammar of the Serbian language. What you wrote – that amendments should be rejected because the clause that there is a anti-corruption agency provided for in the National Anti-corruption Strategy – is ridiculous. You can anticipate everything you want with the National Strategy, but the fact is that the Anti-Corruption Agency is not foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a stronger legal act than the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, especially since the strategy is not a legal act, but a political document that was proposed by the Serbian government by some anti-corruption programme. Otherwise, as for these strategies applied by the Serbian government, that this strategy is not a secret document such as the Action Plan – what will the Serbian government do about recognising Kosovo and Metohija's independence, so you banish the ambassadors of some countries, and you go to some for advice. That your National Anti-Corruption Strategy is not the same as the action plan for the arrest of Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, so no one lives in Serbia knows who arrested Radovan Karadzic? They say he wasn't arrested by the police. He was arrested by some security services. When asked which – well, we do not know whether domestic or foreign. Otherwise, what you wrote was that the Anti-Corruption Agency was educated in accordance with Article 97 point 16. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not stand either. The member prescribes that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the organisation and operation of republican authorities. The Anti-Corruption Agency is no organ. It is completely unclear what function the state authority is performing; it is neither a legislative body nor an authority of the administration nor a judicial authority. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia neither in this member nor in any other member provides for any anti-corruption agency at all. To somehow strengthen your position you said – well, there are some other state bodies that we have educated after 2001, which are also not foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's how you jump into your own mouth. The Commissioner for Public Information is also, as you predicted, independent and, you wrote here, "independent" state authority, you didn't write that he was "independent" and that's good. The Commissioner for Public Information is also not envisaged by any law, but you have some, even remotely, constitutional basis that the trustee exists, in Article 51. A constitution that says that everyone has the right to be informed in full, in full and in good time about issues of public importance and that the means of public notice are obliged to respect that right. Everyone has the right to access information owned by state authorities and organisations entrusted with public authority, in accordance with the law. So the Public Information Commissioner may be able to find some constitutional basis; the Anti-Corruption Agency does not. The Anti-Corruption Agency is an entirely artificially constructed state body (in fact, we don't know if it's an organ or an organization, whether it's a public service, what it is), which you invented to be publicly identified as god-awful crime and corruption fighters. I don't understand one thing: why did you substitute the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, RIK and the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the authority of the Anti-Corruption Agency? Do you consider the entire matter of funding political parties to be one big corruption? However, in one part you are right about funding, first of all, the Democratic Party, there is indeed a lot of corruption. It is a public secret that the Democratic Party is funded by a number of domestic and foreign tycoons and mobsters and that you, in addition to those budget funds that you legally belong to under the law, must be taking as much as you need. I am also referring to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, both the AP Vojvodina budget and the budget of all local self-government where you are in power. The dramatic example of the abuse of budgetary resources on the territory of Vojvodina is the use of the rights of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. It's a very obscenity and dark institution, and it has an innocent name - for capital investments. Basically, behind the institution is a sack of money used by the DS whenever the time of the election campaign approaches. (President: Time. I'm sorry, one more sentence. Otherwise, the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund buys those yellow-and-blue packages and pays for the trucks to which these packages are transported. If that's how you ask your province's Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic, he literally knows everything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4631	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4632	I'm reporting from Article 225. I hope you'll stop my time because I'm worth this second, given that right now I just want to quote the first indent, where he says, "The People's MP has the right to be," my time continues, Madam Chairman, "informed on all the questions needed to perform the function of the MP". I hope you count me in these 27 seconds in time. Thank you. The Serbian Radical Party wants to launch a very serious debate in hopes of a good solution for academic citizens in the state of Serbia. These few days, we've just been paying attention to the fact that we're really going to deal with the problems that bother students. Right now, the SRS Parliament Club, and this is what we're informing academic citizens and their parents and everyone else about, wants to ask for the information we need for further parliamentary life from the deans of eight colleges that have raised tuition prices to 60%, so information about price structure and costs, what the money of academic citizens really go to. That's the first request. The second requirement is that all the Belgrade University Deans deliver a cost-effective to which the money from academic citizens goes and what it is that students pay. All of this I would like to support the following arguments: in addition to these daily protests, the student parliament sat down three days ago and also made very serious demands concerning registration quotas, budgets and tuition prices. At the Faculty of Architecture two nights ago, in a crowded hall of amphitheaters, architecture students announced that unless they received a timely response they were moving into serious strikes. The SRS parliamentary club joins the demands of academic citizens for equal participation in scientific education and this occasion requires the competent authorities to provide accurate information on what happens to the money that students pay each year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4633	Thank you. Explanation: I have to record the time you use for the quote because if I stop time then I turn off your microphone, that's the technology. The MP says the technology is obsolete. But that's why we're modern, all together, all 250 of us. As far as the questions you have referred to are concerned, it remains to be checked whether the National Assembly can address the deans directly with a request for information or must use the Education Committee as an instrument, or a rectoral conference, or the Ministry of Education. Once we figure out what the way of communication is, then the question will be passed on. Anyone else want a word? According to the amendment, the People's MP Nenad Konstantinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very difficult to have a serious debate and a serious discussion if this discussion is constantly interrupted in particular by the Rules of Procedure. I reported on what counterpart Martinovic said, not to remain unclear again in public: The National Anti-Corruption Strategy, which established the existence of an anti-corruption agency, was brought by the government of the Republic of Serbia but by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So a decision has been made in this house that there should be an anti-corruption agency. After that, all state authorities adopted an action plan to fight corruption. By passing the agency law, we are practically implementing a National Strategy which, practically, has been established in the previous term by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4635	Just to give information to MP Nenad Konstantinovic: insight into the stenogram shows that during the debate on the details of the draft law on the financing of political parties there was only one requirement to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and that was the National MP Marina Ragus. No other MP has been asked and has been asked to speak to him about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, so just one announcement. The word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been requested by the MP Marina Ragush. He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4636	Thank you very much. So, according to Article 104, my dear colleague, I will appear and come out here in a visible zone every time I feel that any of the rights of the parliamentary group or any of the rights of the Serbian citizens have been derivated. The Serbian Radical Party has no place other than this. You have truly hurt the dignity of all MPs by insulting their intelligence, especially if you thought your findings would be unresponsive. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow us to appear every time we have no other option. This is for the SRS and a good part of the opposition's MPs the only place we can say something. Now you're breaking the Rules of Procedure by throwing it out of place. That's very unacceptable, not to say rude. Be assured that we will report as many times as the rights of both us and these people who are watching us are at stake. We've got a mandate for that. I don't dispute your right to go out for this pay phone, but allow your colleagues, don't challenge us from the right to go out and say, answer, participate in the work. Here, I've only used a minute and 31 seconds, but I promise you that every time I come out here, I'll... Here, the chairman, please, the public should know that MPs of the ruling majority who are trying to comply with the procedure are earning MPs of the opposition and making it impossible for MPs to work. I think this is completely politically incorrect and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4637	There were no injuries to Article 104, as MP Nenad Konstantinovic did not say that he had numerous reports with intent to insult or demean, but based on the impression. But by looking at the stenogram, he can see that there was only one announcement and that in all other cases the word was received from the discussion of the details. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word based on Article One, Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the thing. Mr Konstantinovic, the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, brought the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the government's proposal. Your role, as well as the adoption of all other acts in the National Assembly, is to press the green key on the day of the vote. Half of you here have no idea what's in the documents delivered by the Serbian government. That's one thing. The second thing, neither the National Anti-Corruption Strategy nor the Anti-Corruption Action Plan are legal acts, these are political acts, Mr Konstantinovic. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is no basis for the existence of an anti-corruption agency. Constitutional law norms are congenital, imperative nature, cannot be changed by laws or by legal acts which are, in their own right, lower than the law. That's the problem. You can't use every new law to predict a new agency and say -- well, yes, it's not foreseen by the Constitution of Serbia, but it's intended by a national strategy or an action plan this or that. The hierarchy of legal acts defined by the Serbian Constitution must be respected. Otherwise, you're bringing the state into chaos. This anti-corruption agency is further evidence that you do not really want to respect the Serbian Constitution, nor do you honestly care about the fight against corruption. You need an institution, in a series of agencies that no one in Serbia knows what they are doing and how they are funded, to create in public a picture of how you are great anti-crime and corruption fighters. In real life, in practice, the fight against crime and corruption will be nothing, except that from time to time you will arrest some politically inappropriate official of the Democratic Party. That and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4639	National MP, you did not specify, which is your obligation, which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to respect the provisions regarding requests for a word based on the desire to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The MP throws it out of place that it was a replica. If it were a replica, I'd say you're getting a word based on article 101 and what's the basis of the replica. I said you're looking for a word based on article 100, because you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. So, please, no abuse. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, in front of the parliamentary group, it is important to say that for the sake of Serbian citizens, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties. "Article 3 is deleted," so my amendment reads. I explained that the work of political parties is financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. by the means of citizens, and the control of the spending of these funds cannot be left to, as Mr Martinovic said, an unconstitutional body, especially if it is obvious that the body is planning to be the exposition of a party. And that's different, no one believes that anymore. Programically, the SRS is against setting up agencies for all sorts of things, because it's an expensive and slightly efficient part of the state's apparatus. None of the agencies established so far have given the expected results in their work, so it is unnecessary to allocate budgets for the Agency's work, thereby increasing the costs of the state administration. Given that in today's presentations of the SRS MPs, we have heard some information, accurate information, about the number of employees in the state apparatus, and we are witnessing that the IMF, who you are daily seeking, daily informs you that you should reduce at all costs the state apparatus, and you are increasing it, then man simply doesn't know what you are doing at all. We made it clear that after October 5, about 8,000 people were employed, that today this figure is 27,891 employees, exactly as much without data as there are employees in the MUP, BIA. So when it all comes together, the state apparatus is about five times the size of October 5th. We have also heard these days how much it costs, what the salaries of these employees are and how much it is a burden on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I have to state, for the sake of the Serbian citizens, that on several occasions, and even from your coalition partners, it was highlighted and determined all of this happened after October 5th; mostly, the core of everything is carried by DS, in fact, everyone fits in, I repeat, not "semaphore company", but a company that... Or that light that only works with the yellow blinking light, they all blended in those colors. The position of the SRS, ladies and gentlemen, has proved true. When various agencies began to form at the resolution ministries, we reacted, as I said, at the same time and until today we are warning you, and I from this pay phone, and the government and MPs, that agencies are unnecessary and that this job must and should work as a resolution ministry. I repeat, for the sake of the citizens, in these agencies, respected citizens, people are working politically alike, who belong to the ruling political option, which the minister himself belongs to. Their powers are great. The powers of these little gods, as the people call them, the director of the agencies, are great. They're acting on their own. We don't have the ability to control them as MPs. And not to mention the behavior of employees in those agencies that, at the very least, are inadmissible. They decide everything, on the one hand; on the other hand, the ministry is largely pretending that everyone is doing their job, that the jobs aren't undersold, etc. The spending of state money, respected citizens, through these agencies or even the government, through the budget, must be controlled. Well, I guess we MPs have the right to do that. We must, in the name of the people who chose us, control the work of the ministries, and we are actually disabled in that. So, if it wasn't for the agencies, that job would have to be done either by the ministries or by someone who's done it before. The government's explanation says: "Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the laws propose amendments to Articles 16, 17 and 18. The law on the financing of political parties by transferring the powers of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Finance Committee and the finance minister to the Anti-Corruption Agency, i.e. the Director of the Agency. "As for Article 7, which we were just talking about, it is said: "Article 7 of the law provides for the law to enter into force on 1 October 2009, when the application of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act should begin. "When should I be," and who will do it by then? It is not only about pre-election campaigns that control the financing of political parties is being carried out, but it should also be done in the pre-election cycle and from campaign to campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, the fact is that I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, of course, because you refused the amendment and I know there is no way to accept it because it comes from the SRS parliamentary group – no one found in those institutions has been fired by the agencies. Everyone's going to stay in business. There must be some new jobs for some new people, members of parties that were not part of the government's last term, and now they are. Among other things, that's why there are these agencies. That's why we are from the Serbian Radical Party against agencies and against opening similar institutions and institutions, which you continue to open, only with some other names, such as: committees, administrations, directorates, commissioners, institutions, secretaries, and who knows what everything, and all under the cover that your party associates, people who have been doing elections for you, to get home, to take care of. The current control solution, when it was the committee that had insight into the political party's funding report, is an absolutely better solution. How many committees had some data, not all of them, but they had some, because on boards there are people from all political options, parliamentary parties, who got their seats on boards based on percentages in the elections. So many are represented on these committees. Is this part of the plan to ensure those powerful who have financed and supported large sums, especially in election campaigns, this coalition today? Is that, we're wondering, another security detail for you in power, so there's nothing else that would happen to be discovered, that you're running from control? Well, it makes sense for us to think the same way, and believe me, the citizens of Serbia. But you're free of it. You've known it a long time ago. Every day we're going to warn here, tell the citizens what kind of fraud this election campaign was, and these elections. A man could eventually conclude that you do it all the time, you know why? Not because you're not afraid of anything, but because you're not ashamed of anything. I almost forgot, since we still have time. Today, we mention little of these powerful men and those who must not be forgotten throughout the story, which is certainly the false Emperor Scepan Mali or, in translation from this new Montenegrin language, Mladjan Dinkić. It's a man who's so sick of the citizens of Serbia that in this whole story we don't want to call him out anymore, and we don't want to pay much attention to him, but we always have to mention him and we can't forget him, because he's not telling the truth. They are like that; for them it is necessary to point out what they do and how they do. I will mention this because of Serbian citizens, I will also mention these free actions and a million new jobs for Serbian citizens. Instead, they got free mind-sharing and a million new problems. What's free in the end usually costs the most. Mr Dinkic has raised the price so much to himself, in his deceptions, at least so he thinks, that one day he will be given a deadline to pay off all these lies and all these frauds, but in the banks of Sremska Mitrovica, Padinska Skele or Belgrade CZ banka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4641	Anyone else want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must refer to the explanation of the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties. You see, Mr. Cosic, this law provides for the establishment of a new one, I will not tell the state authority, because it is not, but let's say some new state institutions that have never existed in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I assume you'll be hiring a number of your staff in that institution. The institution will have a director, will have various advisors, assistant directors, etc. In the light of the bill, you say this way: "The financial resources needed to implement the law - no additional financial resources need to be provided in the budget for the implementation of this law". Will the Anti-Corruption Agency be on donations to Serbia's budget, or how do you think you finance that agency? Your salaries in the agency may be provided by Olli Rehn, Javier Solana or another EU official. That's one thing. It is possible that Miskovic, not disabled. The other thing, Mr. Cossic, I'm talking to you, because I assume that you were mostly involved in writing these arguments. If I'm wrong, you'll excuse me. "The reasons for the law being passed by emergency procedure"... All these laws, and the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and the Bill on Legal Liability for Criminal Crimes, etc., have the same explanation, are the same reasons: "It is proposed that the law be adopted by emergency procedure, because the adoption of the law by emergency procedure will create all necessary conditions for the work of bodies and organisations, which would meet the necessary conditions in the process of joining the European Union. "Aside from the fact that this language is no good, but it is simply amazing that the Republic of Serbia cannot function normally if you do not form a anti-corruption agency. It's a little weird for me. If we could work so far, why can't we continue? If there were no objections from the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, if we had even said - everything was great in the bill, you yourself, who advocated the EU, would have to criticise what it says in this law. In this way, you are additionally burdening the state administration. Instead of reducing it, you're increasing it. You don't have to listen to the MPs of the SRS, we may not know anything about it, but listen to what your friends from the West, the World Bank and the IMF tell you from day to day that the state administration of the Republic of Serbia is too big, that it costs a lot, that public spending in the Republic of Serbia is extremely high and above the European average. That is one reason, but you are not telling him why Serbia is slowly approaching the EU. The easiest thing to say is -- it's the Serbian Radical Party's fault that Serbia is not in the EU, but it's an explanation for small children. The real explanation is that from year to year, from month to month, you increase the state administration, you increase the number of employees, you increase budget issues for their salaries, labour costs, etc. If I didn't turn out to be saying something out of my head right now and spreading some demagogy, here's what the World Bank tells you: "According to the World Bank's comparative data, the Serbian state administration is pre-named, or the number of persons working in the state administration is above the European average. The number of employees in Serbia's state administration is higher than in Finland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland. Comparative data on the participation of employees and officials in the state administration of the Republic of Serbia and the Central and Eastern European countries in the total volume of public spending are also unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia. In the Republic of Serbia only during 2004, there was a higher participation of the fund in the overall volume of public spending than in Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia. "Lords, Slovakia entered the European Union in 2004; Romania and Bulgaria entered in 2007. You keep saying that the legislation of the Republic of Serbia and the legal system should be illustrated by the legal system of the European Union. Why don't you look him up? Who's stopping you? You're doing everything the opposite of what you're saying. You say you are for the EU, and you do not respect the EU standards themselves. You deceive the public and you don't care about both the EU and European and world standards. You need a story about Europe for elections, to deceive a people who have difficulty living and telling them - we are about to join the EU. That's what you've been saying since 2000. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a year. It's 2008, you win, Mr. Milivojevic, by buying votes, by manipulating the electoral body using packages, trucks, etc. That's what the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund is for. The truth will come to light. You are not interested in the European Union. You are interested to know that based on the story of the EU and the better life, if Serbia enters the EU one day, in a completely illegal way... (President: six minutes. )......................................................................................................... You rule the Republic of Serbia. But the people are smarter than you think, you'll see in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4643	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 4. I submitted a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties in front of the SRS parliamentary group, an amendment requiring the removal of this fourth member. An important Law on the financing of political parties, whose content wants to change this proposal for the amendment and addition we have ahead of us, has regulated that the political party is obliged to submit to the National Assembly of Serbia's Finance Committee a final account for each year with a certificate of the authorised auditor, as well as a report on contributions exceeding 6,000 dinars and a report on property. Article 4 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties is amended by Article 18 of the current law, which states in its position: "If it determines irregularities regarding the collection, use or recording of funds within the meaning of this law, the chairman of the Finance Committee is obliged to submit a report to the competent authorities. The proposed amendment concerns replacing the words "President of the Finance Committee" with the words "director of the Agency". Article 2 states that if a political party is fined by law, it loses the right to funds from public sources for the next calendar year. Paragraph 3 states: "The decision of the 2nd member shall be taken by the Finance Committee. "The amendment provides for the words "the Finance Committee" to be replaced by "agency". The government did not accept the amendment, with a bit of a strange explanation that the control of political party financing should be carried out by an independent body specialising in the fight against corruption, instead of the authorities provided for by the Law on the financing of political parties. The question arises whether the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia may be dependent on someone? The spending of funds for the work of political parties approved by the Republic of Serbia's budget is subject to control by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This control cannot now be left to the authority of the Anti-Corruption Agency, for the simple reason it is an unconstitutional body. There is no foothold in the Constitution for the establishment of this agency, and we have talked about it many times today. How can an unconstitutional body control budget spending? Budgetary funds are the means of taxpayers. The National Assembly is a legitimate body and cannot be replaced by the jurisdiction of an unconstitutional authority. the anti-corruption agency referred to as an independent and independent state body, which will hardly be independent and independent. In practice so far, it has been the responsibility of the chairman of the Finance Committee to report to the competent authorities if it identifies irregularities in relation to the collection, use or recording of funds. Now this wants to be transferred to the director of the agency. Also, the decision to lose the right to funds from public sources for next year for the punishment of the party is being made by the Finance Committee, and now it is wanted to be left to the agency. It is not specified here whether the decision will be made by the Director, his deputy, or by the Agency's board. Another important point is that the draft law on this agency mentions party financing control only in the list of the Agency's competences. It doesn't say anything about how control is going to be done. That is why this amendment has been submitted requiring the removal of this article. This would continue to be carried out by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as so far, by the control of the regular work of political parties and the cost of funding of election campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4645	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try and prove to the argument that you're essentially not going to change anything in this country. You can pass 100, 200, 300 laws and each day you can pass by some law, but nothing will change essentially. I also have to notice that with the simple application in Serbia of some laws that apply in the European Union not only do you not want to get close to the EU, but you will move further away from the EU. That's the way it is with this law. By setting up a anti-corruption agency, you'll in some ways make it impossible for some things to be solved. For what? Well, very simply, you have transferred all the RIC powers, the National Assembly Finance Committee, to this agency. The pure logic is that RIK and the Finance Committee have both been put together on a parity basis, based on the composition of the Serbian Parliament, or parties that went to the elections and received a certain percentage. I guess it makes sense, I think you all believe that one such body composed of representatives of several parties will be more objective, regardless of what the majority of both the Committee and the RIK vote towards political interests. In any case, at least you can hear, at least you can argue, that there are arguments when it comes to, say, financing political parties and, apparently, if it comes to abuse. You remember, a number of examples have been made here, and we've illustrated it to you by severances and bills, by truck pictures, about sending packages to a pre-election campaign, right before the election. We have proved to you that several million euros were spent on the campaign. We have also proven to you that there is not a single euro that has been declared to the Finance Committee for this purpose, that is, that life supplies bought, packed and sent to the field to give to the most vulnerable part of the population, and, as they say, to buy the soul, or their voice, to vote for the Democratic Party. That's the problem you've been facing all along. Regardless of our political bickering, which is perfectly normal, you fight, we fight for every vote, to be best presented to the electoral body, but believe that the SRS really has a desire for conditions in the state to improve. How can they improve? If you're going to do something, if the law isn't just on that folk's "mama's grandmother's roll" day, we're going to discuss it in the Assembly for a few days, one day, it doesn't matter, it's going to end and it's all gonna end up on it. Eventually, in public, the ruling coalition or representatives of the ruling coalition will come out and argue – here, we passed this law, we passed this law, and in some ways they want to say that they have done their job and that everything is fine now, and that is not the case. I personally believe, Madam Minister, that you want to and think that you will do something with this law, but most of which you belong to has shown right away, ever since she came to power, that she doesn't want any change. That's what she showed at work. I've listed only part of the affair since 2001, since 2000, how much these affairs have burdened our country, how many individuals have folded the money, and those who bought the commissions cheaply. None of these affairs have been processed, many because the courts have not done their job and the process has become obsolete, as in the case of Janjusevic - Kolesar, so they have not even been called to account, although it has been proven that they have taken about two million euros, I don't know the exact number, it doesn't matter. With this law, you will establish one body whose representatives will to the most extent be members of the Democratic Party, possibly someone else will get, but I don't believe it, because you share a public enterprise, you share agencies, etc. And there's no ban, and no one gets in, so don't touch me, I won't touch you, on that people's hand me. Do what you do. I do what you do, you do what you do to me, and you finish what you do. But it is a problem that costs citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. I'll show you on your case how it works, just when it comes to party financing law: December 28, 2000... You remember all that time when DOS came to power and promised to solve all the problems, apartments, cars, summers already in 2001, 2002, we are in Europe. Among other things, that's when you passed the Law on the financing of political parties. Do you remember there's this law, Madam Minister? You remember. You know what he says in that law? Property that was at the administration, use and availability of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, the Socialist Union of the working people of Yugoslavia and the Alliance of the Socialist Youth of Yugoslavia, which was made up of facilities, business space, equipment, office furniture and the like, is property of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. According to Article 2(2), the Federal Authority responsible for the affairs of justice will make up a record of the assets referred to in Article 1(1) to the users and, until the entry into force of this Act, by type, quantity, or area and location, to determine its situation and propose a method of use and users, take care now that at least one half of the immovableities which, in the possession of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, have passed through the application of Article 1 of this Article to parliamentary parties for the use of regular work. Is there any party, I ask the question, which from this property has received anything? A pen, a chair? As far as the SRS is concerned, nothing's been received. There's a logical question. Interestingly, I don't expect anyone to ask the question, but I admit, this time the question is logical. They ask how much this property is. Here, and I'll read it to you. According to the list, 280 immovableities existed in 129 places, and so far, in eight years, a book was made for only 50 years. Now, we ask the question, who signed up for this 50 and what about 130? What's up with that? Why didn't you give it to the Finance Committee? Why didn't you present this to the Serbian Parliament? I doubt it, simply, about you. If you could give sugars for three euros, don't convince me that you haven't taken advantage of this possibility. Well, for some of you, the "seeing the eye" rule applies, there's no dilemma. Just because you're in power, the citizens of Serbia, and the parliamentary parties don't have the opportunity to get all the things out of sight. Here, Madam Minister, in order not to be in vain, I am asking the Director of the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia and you as the Minister of Resorship; please send the Director of the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia to provide me with an answer with a list of these 280 immovableities and to provide us with a list of other assets which are not registered to Serbian citizens and political parties with information on what has been done under this law. Now, as you have done with this law, here, eight years have passed, so you will do with both this and those you have brought before and with those you will bring in in a day, two, three, five, with all the laws you will bring while you are in power; they will be just a dead letter on paper, without any desire to solve the problems of the citizens of Serbia. That is what we are facing and that is what is the biggest problem of Serbia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4647	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have referred the amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties. In order to get to know the public about what is defined by this article, I will read the draft law of Article 5. He says: "The Republic Election Commission and the Finance Committee are obliged to hand over final accounts and reports to the Agency within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. 14th and 16. The law. "The government did not accept this amendment with an explanation that it is the opinion that controlling the financing of political parties should be carried out by an independent body specialising in the fight against corruption, instead of the authorities provided for by the Law on the financing of political parties. The current, applicable law provides for the control of the financing of political parties to be carried out by RIK and the Finance Committee. The promoter is going to change and a newly formed body, a state body, which will be inaugurated after adoption in this assembly within a few days, will receive significant powers and as such will have the opportunity to control the financing of political parties. The Serbian Radical Party believes that we cannot trust this authority to carry out these affairs for several reasons. According to the concept of the law on the anti-organised crime agency, huge powers are foreseen, but will also be followed by the employment of a huge number of workers. We believe that RIK and the Finance Committee can carry out control tasks perfectly normal, within jurisdiction, without wasting time. So, within what they do in accordance with the law, they can also carry out funding control. On the other hand, we consider this newly formed state-run anti-organised crime agency a political-legal phantom, which will take on huge powers and we fear abuses that could cause certain political consequences for some political parties, and we can see it based on experience so far. Article 3 The law on the financing of political parties says: "The funds for the financing of activities under Article 2 of this law can be obtained from public and private sources, in accordance with this law. Public sources, within the meaning of this law, constitute funds from the Republika Srpska budget, the territorial autonomy unit's budget and the local self-government unit's budget, approved to finance the political party's regular work and election campaign costs. "Look, these public sources of income won't be a problem, so these funds will normally drown in current accounts of political parties, control will normally be done by any state authority, but the problem with this second category of income generated by parties in normal work and business. This is defined by Article 3(3), says: "private sources, within the meaning of this law, make up: membership, contributions from legal and natural persons, revenues from the political party's promotional activities, revenues from the political party's assets and legislation. "There's a problem here. This is where the problem arises, not with membership fees, but with the income of legal and physical persons. Why is that a problem? The problem is, as a rule, because both legal and physical persons in them avoid the public. So they make secret payments to individual accounts, and some third accounts pay certain obligations that political parties have in their work and business. We're working undercover. Could this control agency, in order to fight organized crime, be able to control these secret payments? He can't. That's quite clear to us. If behind this there is the same political party whose people work in a state body that controls corruption and political parties, then we will rule out so far what we do not know, and we are aware of that. Furthermore, there is a great danger that this state body that you are proposing, or anti-corruption agency, will abuse the data of political parties it finds in financial reports. How will they abuse? Certain funds that pass through the current political party account are public character, entities that pay funds at the expense of the political party will be seen. There is once again negative experience in practice. When it comes to legal or natural persons who deposit directly on the party's current account, as a rule, there is pressure from state authorities. Various inspections immediately take place to control those legal persons or natural persons. No one's willing to give more serious funds if it's a physical person. Then we get the controls, we sanction those legal entities. In practice we have it, you know it very well. We in the SRS have had such examples. It's especially typical of local self-government. Please one, the other, the third. When a certain legal person pays, then we get sanctions against that legal person. There's a possibility of abuse, and that's for sure what we'll have here. Why is it good to stay an old solution? For a number of reasons. So we're not gonna have a working double. In order for the agency to exercise control, she has to hire workers. We already have workers in the state administration working here; these are RIK workers and in this case they will be Members of the Finance Committee. We don't double. We advocate, and especially the current government says it will actively work to reduce public spending. This is the opposite of what you're up against. Both the IMF and the World Bank are telling you to cut public spending. How do you reduce it, when you increase the number of workers, you increase the various expenditures for state bodies that are financed from the budget? Here's a convenient opportunity for you to accept this amendment and remove all of this that we're telling you is negative. Another finding. We need to look back here at certain donations that the DOS group has had since 2000. Individuals in your ranks said they transferred funds to Serbia, funded DOS activities, transferred part of the funds into private pockets, invested part of the funds in corruption and crime. What did we get after all these activities? No case has been prosecuted, and you yourself boasted about how much anyone had won and gossiped about the one who got more. The state prosecutor's office, the prosecutor's office in general, did not take any action to expose the way these funds arrived, the way these funds were spent and all the abuses that followed the arrival of those funds in the areas of the Republic of Serbia. The latest situation concerns the facts presented by the citizen Tomislav Nikolic on a political show. When asked by a journalist, "Was there any funding from the SRS by the tycoon," he said, "Yes". But he lied. There was no funding, and that will also show the control that you will probably do, this organ or any other organ, because nothing through the SRS account has gone through. The citizen Tomislav Nikolic said the funds were paid by tycoon Miskovic for two accounts: one is for the use of car rentalrs and the other is for the financing of the services of one TV house. It's private arrangements, the SRS doesn't stand behind it. In our account, none of it went through. Ask yourselves why the Attorney General is not responding in this situation. You yourself know which tycoons funded you. Did the D.A. react? It's not. Has anyone in the justice system reacted? It's not. There's no fight against crime. Until the funding situation is resolved in its own ranks, there is no rule of law, no fight against corruption and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4649	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr Konstantinovic, I am speaking to you because you've been going out on several occasions to talk about the amendments of the SRS regarding this law, so I assume you've been involved in the drafting of the bill itself, as well as the opinions given by the government. My fellow MPs, when I get a bill, I read the title first. I assume that's how you do it. I can tell you that I was happy to see that the amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties were made, especially when it came to 12. Nine. In 2008. I thought there was a problem being solved – if someone took some funds and later claimed to have used them in the election campaign. When I started reading further, I saw that it had nothing to do with it. This law would also make Serbia's citizens happy if it contained what I expected, and so do they, which is that everything that appears in the election campaigns of political parties is resolved in a perfectly normal way. In our normal activities, I mean all political parties, we use funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and we are obliged to account for citizens who allocate those funds. These seven members, except that the seventh regulates when this law enters into force, are largely putting off the force three completely legitimate bodies that have solved partly in this matter so far. They may not have always done the best, but they're certainly legitimate enough to solve well. My fellow predecessors explained the proportional representation in these bodies, which gives one more guarantee that, when it comes to political parties' business, the issue of their funding will be resolved in a better way. However, you put all of this aside, introduce one phantom body - the Anti-Corruption Agency and transfer into its jurisdiction the powers of a dozen state bodies, organizations, or congregation bodies so far. How do you think they'll handle it, all that they have serious intentions? I'm sure there won't be any success. I had to suggest that article 6 of this bill be deleted. Basically, we challenge the entire law, which is what seven members dispute in this way. Mr. Todorovic, the head of the SRS parliamentary group, told you that you have no intention of changing anything. I wouldn't worry about you leaving at least the condition you found in 2000, but you've been destroying it from now on. I can't say that you do, but you support to the greatest extent those who do. For every law we had in this session, the reason for which it is brought by emergency procedure is the same, and it is said among other things: "to meet the necessary conditions in the EU accession process". The EU is just waiting for this law to be passed and they will then welcome you into their arms. counterpart Martinovic said he does not care, he says you are not interested in the EU. We worry, SRS MPs and the whole party, as well as Serbian citizens, because you are not interested in Serbia, which you are not interested in Serbian citizens. There are great experts in various areas here. You need to deal with this proposal by Prime Minister Boris Tadic (I did not make a mistake, he is "three in one", he is also the President of the Republic, and the Prime Minister and very often the President of the Assembly) and to give your expert opinion on how to protect agricultural producers, how to protect agricultural production that is threatened by reducing customs duties on imports of agricultural products. I think that today all the masks of those who are also from this assembly payphone, and also through various media, say that the MPs of the opposition, I want to say that those who sit behind the SRS, are obstructing and slowing down the process of joining the EU. Serbian citizens, the best proof that it is not the MPs of the SRS that we are doing today on Saturday. But we were invited to this session. We would come 50 days, when no one called us and worked, but we couldn't do it, because the president of the National Assembly delayed it first for 15 days and then another month. Then the effects of the government's work... It is said that the government was doing great; the prime minister or deputy prime minister, but not the first deputy president, but the one changing Tadic, when asked how he assessed himself, answered - excellent. And then he saw what he did and he said, "I was just kidding, 'cause that's not appropriate." He says he only passed 14 laws. The way we bring it, it'd be better if we didn't bring those 14. Serbian citizens need many other laws. We stand at our disposal. We can work on Saturdays and Sundays, always, and after six, but come to your senses, start sending MPs laws that will improve and change the lives of Serbian citizens. They expect it. They do not divide us according to whether we are on the left side or on the right side; they expect from us, because they have given us trust, that we may do something to make them better. We do it every day, you try it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4651	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the 30s of the last century, some communist ideological cleaners began to transfer Stalin to the practice of Stalin's state, Soviet Russia, departing from some established Marxist principles. One of these principles is the dying state. So Marks said that the aim of communism is to make the state die, and in practice, in Stalin's time, the state was growing stronger and stronger. Then some Soviet philosophers, I'm sorry that Dragoljub Micunovic is not here, he probably knows what I'm talking about, came up with a brilliant formula not to go against Stalin's will without being in the spirit of Marxist philosophy, so they said the Soviet state died by strengthening. This was taught by all the students in Yugoslavia, in the Soviet Union, in all the countries of Eastern Europe, that the Soviet model of the state does not actually deviate from Marks' philosophy. That's what you're doing here in Serbia right now. You say, we are reducing, rationalizing the state administration as the EU asks us to. How? By increasing it. It's a philosophy that you manage. Otherwise, what you're saying is that the EU is asking us, to become its member, to pass this foolish law on legal liability for criminal acts, so that we can form a anti-corruption agency, etc., these are all the daily stories that Serbian citizens no longer fall for. What exactly is the EU asking of us? Seeking what former US ambassador to Belgrade William Montgomery wrote in the daily "Today" on 6 September 2008. Otherwise, since he was a longtime ambassador to Belgrade, he speaks Serbian and wrote an article in Serbian for the daily "Today". I'll read you just a few sentences: "What's most important, the assistance that the EU especially provides to Serbia has its price. European leaders expect Serbia to arrest two prominent fugitives wanted by The Hague tribunal in the near future and play a less obstructive role in Kosovo. If these steps do not take place under the current democratic government, enthusiasm for Serbia's support within the EU circles will quickly fall. "It is, in fact, the true essence of what the EU is asking of us. I don't care about Javier Solana, Ollie Rehn, and Montgomery, and Bush and all those who handle the bloc that stood against Serbia whether there is some anti-corruption agency in Serbia, whether in Serbia legal persons are responsible for crimes, etc., and are not responding anywhere in the world. This is the right price, these are the right, necessary conditions, which you are talking about in all the laws, in order for Serbia to enter the European Union; therefore, we should arrest General Mladic and Goran Hadzic, probably those two people to whom Montgomery is talking and, of course, to recognise the republic of Kosovo. The other day, I don't think of you, Mrs Comic, I think that the chairman of Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, applauded here because the UN General Assembly had passed the initiative to ask the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion on whether the declaration of independence was so-called "independence". The Republic of Kosovo in accordance with international law. At first sight, when a man looks, it is a great success of Serbian diplomacy. However, what is the insidious and hidden intention of those who have submitted the initiative? What happens if the International Court of Justice says that the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija legally and in accordance with international law declared Kosovo independent? Do you know what will happen? Then Boris Tadic will say -- well, we did our best, but the International Court of Justice said it is in accordance with international law, which, we have nowhere to go, we have to recognise independent Kosovo. That is the essence of the story of approaching the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4653	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. It's a member who talks about when this law comes into force. I asked the amendment to delete this member of the bill. It's obvious, and that's what my predecessors have so far been very well aware of and said, here's the point and the basic thing of the anti-corruption agency. In fact, the National Anti-Corruption Strategy provides for the establishment of an independent and independent body to which the RIC, the National Assembly Finance Committee and Finance Minister will be transferred in fact. That body is a anti-corruption agency. For reasons only it is found, there is no real and valid reason why this is being brought and why these authorities, which are RIK, the Finance Committee and the Finance Minister, are not able to carry out this job properly, i.e. Control of the financial operations of political organisations. So there is a promise that this will be an independent and independent agency, which will rightly fight corruption, but these are just empty promises. Ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, who will believe those promises more? Who more will believe those promises of yours, especially after those great promises you made in the past to the citizens of Serbia? I'll remind you of just some of them. You promised to raise pensions at the same time and reduce inflation, and there's nothing. You promised that citizens would get 1000-euro free shares, we saw that none of it had anything to do with it. You promised to hire 200,000 people first, and again 200,000 people, and now we see that it will absolutely be nothing, even on the contrary. You promised that huge money would come from abroad, only that pro-European forces would come to power; we can see that there is nothing. You promised to travel abroad with a white Schengen visa by the end of this year; we can see that there is nothing. You promised that all you had to do was approve of Holland and Belgium, and here we are getting into Western Europe; you can see that there's nothing there either. Do you know what goes on after all these promises? After all these promises come to an order of apologies, and afterwards you apologize to those who broke our country, those who expelled close to a million Serbs from the territory of Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska and Kosovo and Metohija, those who waged lands wars, those who waged country wars, those who waged merciful wars, only an apology to an apology. After these apologies, there is a prestigious European prize for you, and you are probably now hoping that you will get the main, most prestigious, Nobel Prize received by Gorbachev for breaking his country, and the people only with mere promises, promises that the corruption agency will fight corruption in this country. What the people say is, "don't take a donkey to green grass."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4655	Anyone else want a word? Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, want to give the final word? Yeah. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4656	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to express my gratitude and satisfaction for attending the debate in detail and principle in this lofty home. I must say that all the discussions that have taken place here, not about whether it was the bill or the Rules of Procedure, are a great experience for me. All the suggestions, objections, suggestions, and advice I took well - meaning, and I will try to stick to many of them in my future work. I would also like to thank all the MPs, unrelated to what parliamentary groups they are from, whether from power or opposition, for taking part in and having a comprehensive debate on the provisions of all the draft laws. I listened carefully to all the opinions, whether they referred to the provisions of the Bill or the Rules of Procedure, and I tried to answer some of them immediately, and those who require time to answer will receive a reply in writing. I also stress that many of the amendments proposed here were personally acceptable to me, but because of the consistency with the legal system and compliance with the provisions of the primary constitution and the law could not be accepted by the government. In the future, I will try to actively participate in the work of the Assembly not only at Parliament meetings, but also in the work of the committees responsible and in the work of parliamentary groups. When it comes to the draft laws I intend to refer to the Assembly, primarily to the Government, and then to the Assembly, I will try to hold first working meetings with the representatives of the parliamentary groups, given that the Government and I, as a promoter, are making a proposal, and you are making the final decision; as someone who has proposed these laws, I will try to respect each decision unnecessarily. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4657	I conclude the review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I am informing the MPs that today, on the basis of Article 25, we will work after 1800 hours, we will continue the debate in detail on the agenda point. I'm setting a break by 3:30. At 15.30 we continue our work in the afternoon debate in the details of the Foreign Law proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4658	We're continuing our work. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON PARTIES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Jadranko Vuković, Milorad Buha, Srboljub Živanović, Igor Bečić, Dragan Stevanović, Momir Marković, Dusan Marić, Milovanovic, Milorad Krstin, Dragan Zivkovic, Sulejman Spaho, Milan Avramović, together Milica Vojić-Marković, Miroslav Petkov and Arsen Đurić, Slobodan Vuk, Vjerica Radet, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Aleksandar Martinović, Sreto Perić, Nikola Žutić, together Judita Popović, Ivan Andrić, Kenan Hajdarević, Nebojša Radelović and Slobodan Maraš, Jovan Damjanović, Vitomir Plužarević, Dejan Mirović, Milan Štović, Štović Štović, Štović, Milić, Štović, Štović, Štović, Štović, Štović You have received the Government's opinion and the Legislative Committee's report on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I'd like to inform you that we'll be working after 6:00 today, in accordance with article 84. Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4659	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am amazed at how Mr. Dacic came to be in the assembly today. I know you had this obligation, a solemn act of signing a declaration with the Democratic Party as your co-workers from the coalition government and from Internacional, but, Mr. Dacic, with all due respect to you and your willingness to appear here, I must inform you... And Madam President now needs to tell us -- how is it possible for you to break a deal with the heads of the parliamentary groups regarding work and today's session? We have now moved to the agenda of the proposal for a law on foreigners, to debate in particular, however, it was not an agreement between the president of the Assembly and the heads of parliament, and the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic. And that's what the president told me at the beginning of this working day, today, on Saturday, we didn't mind coming -- that we would be working until the end of the debate on Mrs. Snezana Malovic's set of laws, because of these beautiful and happy circumstances and expectations of good news for Mrs. Malovic and her family, which we accepted, as normal people. But, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, we are now in a position for you to begin calling the MPs at this session to discuss the agenda point and we have already told our MPs, especially many amendment applicants, that our agreement with you is to work with you until the end of the previous point. Now you say – the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. You know, it can't get to him that you're tumbling at the speed of light. Now, Jadranko Vukovic should consider whether Mr Dacic has in the meantime prepared, changed his mind or you have made some kind of decision. It's not right and it's not right. It is indeed something that is now entering into some of our future relationships and cooperation. We were absolutely ready to work today. Maybe they didn't tell you, Mr. Dacic, but, you know, you were as old as yesterday... You and I have known each other for at least 15 years, and we used to, I won't say when, we were the youngest MPs in the National Assembly. As far as I know, as president of the parliamentary group, you have always acted correctly; when an agreement is reached, whether you were in opposition or in power, it must be respected. I guess that's some unwritten rule of parliamentaryism. We have destroyed everything that should be the basis of democracy; parliamentary mandates, such as in Kragujevac, are being kidnapped, and now we are coming into a situation to make a mockery of the National Assembly. I must tell you, when you left, Madam President, the Serbian Radical Party had an amendment to the previous two laws we discussed in detail and every MP was in the O.R., all of them very professionally, reasonedly debated. Even in the end, Ms Malovic, for our citizens who may not have followed the meeting, came out and said it was a great experience for her and thanked the MPs for working so responsibly when it came to these points of the agenda. We want, Mr. Dacic, to have a very responsible approach when it comes to this law and to explain our amendments to you, but how do we do that? To call now the people of Vranj, from Piroth, from Bogatic, from Koserić, come back, has Ivica Dacic come? It doesn't make sense. We cannot accept that the Assembly behaves in this way and is playing with the largest parliamentary group, especially because Mr Todorovic has had a constructive and correct approach since the beginning, despite the fact that you have entered the legalization of the kidnapping of parliamentary mandates as the president of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4660	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order for you to be absolutely clear, the deal really existed. We agreed to make a change to the order, to have the justice minister finish with his bill's proposals, to work today until her agenda ends and to continue our work on Monday. You understand that... Nor are all MPs currently involved in the interior ministers' proposals. No problem, you can continue this, but I think we should work and be in this assembly for a while and make arrangements that we reach, if possible, we respect. We won't achieve anything by continuing to do today. As far as the SRS is concerned, you know we can get out, I'm not telling you that we will, that we can figure this out by the Rules of Procedure, but I urge you to honor the agreement we have reached.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been informed that an agreement has been reached to work today. There was a requirement not to work on Monday, to have at least one day off, but to work today. It wasn't any deal that counts, but to work, and by the time we've already got a day's work, it's ours, let's say, working hours at least by 6:00 p.m., with the usual ending point that's on the agenda at that time. A number of MPs voiced the need to have at least one day off in a week to complete other obligations. Our deal was not to work Monday without working today. (Dragan Todorovic: The deal has not been reached. I'm not really informed. You have no idea there were such agreements. I am truly sorry and it is obvious that meetings with the heads of the parliamentary groups will have to be held by me; that agreement is obviously not completely clear. So we could all not come back here today and work on Monday. Let's keep working. Please, since the MPs of the SRS have extremely securely explained, processed their amendments and defended their views here, to continue our work in this spirit. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4663	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think you're a little more naive than you really are. First of all, you were in a very bold way last night... This morning when I spoke to the Rules of Procedure, I said that I would not speak in accordance with Article 106, but only for the public's sake to present what is the fact that we agreed on last night's work and today's work. You've been deluded last night, and I'm now speaking by article 106 because you've injured the Serbian citizens' Rules of Procedure, you said at 8.20 because you... For what reason do you not know about the agreement, this is really your thing, so Mrs. Nada Kolundžija came up to you twice, this is what all the MPs saw, to tell you that a deal was actually made that last night was done by 20.00 hours with respect to the fact that it would not be humane for Mrs. Malovic to sit here for more than 20.00 hours, and today to complete amendments or draft laws in particular on those points where Mrs. Malovic is the government's authorised representative. We did that and we agreed to change the order of the agenda points to show that we are correct and constructive and that we really want to work here. Mrs. Nada Kolundžija literally said, I suppose you can find her and ask her, when we talked to her, Mr. Todorovic was not there at that moment, to finish tomorrow of these laws that Mrs. Malovic, the minister, represented, and then on Monday, we'll finish, we'll work until we're done, so we can go to budget rebalances. That's what the deal really is, and if you think you can... You know, you're sitting here now chairing, you can do whatever you want, but believe us, you're forcing us from a normal, entrenched session where we spoke very correctly and in principle about our amendments, fully prepared to continue our work the same way on the rest of the agenda... You don't let that happen. If you don't allow it, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you know there are so many problems that we Serbian radicals want to talk about, well, dear colleagues, I'm waiting for your rules of procedure to be raised and we'll start working.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4664	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge you to work. Here you go, Jadranka Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would also like to suggest to you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that we continue our work Monday, as agreed. Otherwise, we're really prepared, I also have two or three amendments, that as we did correctly today we continue on Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4666	Dobrislav Prelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, we Serbian radicals obviously continue to trust people with our word. Otherwise, it is known that you do not respect the arrangements, and you are showing it today. We have no problem working on Saturdays and Sundays, but the way you want to work is above all not correct and I don't think it's fair to the citizens of Serbia or to the MPs. Why are you in such a hurry to pass new laws? You are in haste because you are being pressured and you are trying to present to the citizens, above all you, in your statements, that SRS MPs are obstructing the work of parliament, and at all MPs of the opposition, which is absolutely not true. The work of Parliament has been obstructed by you, ma'am, by not holding a session for 50 days. Now I ask you why Friday's session was suspended after only 15 minutes, if it was so urgent and the deal you had with Mr. Todorovic today was not respected? It is our duty to represent our citizens and our constituents here, the SRS voters, and to fight for their interests. What you did, and you weren't present in the O.R. today, you were probably at that famous reconciliation, that's your problem, how you'll explain it to your voters when the time comes. Serbian citizens, above all, did not vote for such a coalition. Serbian citizens have given unequivocally confidence in the folk's option. Who cheated and why many will be clear in the next election, which I hope will be next year. It is already evident that this impossible mission cannot last. That's what Nenad Canak suggested the other day, but that's why the "yellow dictator" in time was provided by an attempt to tear up the SRS, to have a reserve. All this is absolutely clear to our citizens and I am sure they will be punished in the next election. I thank you, only if I can finish... I can't? I'll get back to you, ma'am. You will have to explain a lot to the citizens of Serbia in the coming period, and I am sure you will be punished in the next elections. Thank you, for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4668	Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4669	Dear fellow Members of the People, I wanted you and the chairman to remind me of article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to address, above all, the Serbian public who is monitoring the work of this highest legislative body, so as not to get the impression that we do not want to work. Far from that, therefore, we can work if we need 24 hours, but it's also a matter of quality work. Why are we being deceived today, and why is this taking so long? I think the reason you want us to start a budget rebalancing debate on Tuesday is because you want us to have plenty of free time to commit ourselves to this proposal and to submit amendments to the draft budget rebalancing law. If we work again today, and I remind you that article 85 obliges you and us to work Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, and, as you can see, we work very often on Mondays and Fridays, so here we are on Saturdays, and if we have to submit these amendments to the budget rebalances on Mondays, I really don't know when you think we do it. As these sessions are increasingly under emergency procedure and as these points of the agenda are joined together, you really influence the fact that the laws are passing through this House. Thank God, there's enough and we can manage and give our contribution to the debate on all the bill's proposals. But you're going to let us, we're really exhausting ourselves, and you're not letting us, and we don't even have the opportunity to meet the citizens of Serbia, to fulfill what is our obligation, to give answers to our voters on the ground, because our job is not just sitting in this assembly hall, but much more than that. If the parliamentary function comes down only to the fact that we come to Parliament's meetings to vote on the bill's proposals, then such democracy and our role are illusory in political life at all. So give us a little more understanding of the obligations that the MP has and give us the opportunity to commit ourselves to a very important draft budget rebalance, which will be on the agenda, as far as I can see, on Tuesday. I don't want to remind you that you often violate the arrangements you make with the heads of Parliament clubs. If you do not want to respect the Rules of Procedure, at least respect what you have agreed with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4670	Thank you. Elvira Kovac has a word. Just to have that day off on Monday, I realized we should work today and not work on Monday. There is no usurping of the right to do our job properly in and out of this room, but we can't have that day off on Monday and this afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4671	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for violation of Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure, and I would like to quote it: "The MP is obliged to state which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his view, is injured, that he quotes and explains what the injury is, with which he can speak for the longest three minutes, which does not account for the time needed for a quote", as well as the first position of Article 100: "The speaker can only speak about the issue which is on the agenda". Dear citizens, dear colleagues, we are aware that since we continued our work, with all due respect that Mr. Ivica Dacic has arrived at the afternoon work, we are talking about some arrangements. It is obvious that the opposition is completely misusing the Rules of Procedure by reporting on all kinds of issues, some agreements. I appeal to the president to make sure that we don't let the dignity of the National Assembly be violated. The citizens are aware that we are really doing our best and I appeal to all MPs who are here today and who have repeatedly stressed that they would like to work even 24 hours a day, indeed yesterday the work worked, today we can work on the amendments, but it is pointless to keep reporting about everything and everything, that everyone talks about everything and everything. We are aware that this is anti-business, but if there was an agreement and if we are all willing together to improve the laws, to work together to bring better text and work together to bring our country closer to the EU, the SVM and all MPs were here in the O.R., and we will be here any day, we worked only to really speed up the path to the EU, once again I appeal, you were really great at arguments yesterday, to return to the agenda, we know that the debate is currently in particular, to talk about the points of the agenda, and for the consultations of the bosses there will be time. I appeal once again to the president to schedule them and that the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, are upstairs in the president's cabinet agreeing, and that the rest of us continue to work, that the actual spending of budget funds, since we are all here, is made sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4672	Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 101, right to replication. I would really not ask, but recommend that you no longer serve such flossules about how the opposition is obstructing the work of the Assembly, and for God's sake, you want to work, because Europe is waiting for us every minute in the Serbian Parliament is a shame for Serbia and Serbian citizens. How much you want to do can be seen by one fact, by how many heads of parliament the ruling coalition now sits in the hall. Let the heads of Parliament raise their hands. One hand rises, I don't want to mention who he is, only one head of the parliamentary group sitting in parliament. And you're telling us about wanting to work. You deceive Serbian citizens. You want the time to pass, to get it over with, to go home, and we want to work, but we want to work quality, according to our suggestions. Come on, raise your amendments to this bill, since you're ready to work, to answer. There isn't. That's how you're getting ready. Who are you kidding? It's not worth it to you anymore. The citizens of Serbia see everything because, fortunately, there is a public TV broadcast, so they can see who's really working and who's up for what. Do not worry about our rating and how Serbian citizens will assess it. Why are you taking care of us? We take care of that. The way we're going to work is in line with our political interests, but above all with the interests of the citizens and the state of Serbia. It's yours to get it done as soon as possible so you can go home. That's your problem. You're not interested in improving any legal proposal, you just want it to end as soon as possible. Any attempt by the opposition to point out a problem, that something improves, you declare an obstruction. Where have you been for almost 50 days, since the term of office of this congregation? How many of you were at the Olympics? You're telling us about how you want to work. So, what's your problem with putting a few thousand euros in your pocket and going to Beijing at the Olympics or anywhere in the world? But I don't know how many citizens you've seen... It is a problem that we are facing, that you are not interested in the problems of Serbian citizens, but simply want to meet the obligations you have received from the US and the EU and you are not interested in anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4674	Mr. Avramovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4675	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the windows are really open here, something's been pounding for five minutes, you don't see. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 225 and 226. It's very important to clarify some things. I got a fax on behalf of the SRS MP from Kosovo and Metohija from the Kosovo police. This is very important to me, and I have to bring this up right now, although we are in a hurry on the white Schengen list, but I think Serbian citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija have a lot of problems, and I want to take advantage of the minister's presence. On this document, which I received from the illegal president of UNMIK's municipality, Stanko Jakovljevic sought assistance, in relation to the constitution and the law of the Kosovo government, from the Kosovo police to help him, as the legally elected president of the municipality of Strpce, which is absolutely not true, to throw out for them so-called. The parallel structures of the municipal building, where the legally elected president, our colleague, Zvonko Mihajlovic, works. This is what the Kosovo police responded to his request. Otherwise, Stanko Jakovljevic is also a senior official of the DS, who called himself the president of the municipality and who is calling for the Constitution, more specifically the Law on the Local Elections of Kosovo and Metohija. In response to the Kosovo police, it is said: "In connection with the municipal building, we do not have the possibility of being present at the facility because of political implications in the building. As for the occupation of offices," he said here that parallel structures occupied the building, "it is a political issue, not a police issue, and a solution should be sought by the entire local government ministry bodies. "This is very important, the third paragraph: "In any case, when an incident occurs, such as disrupting public order and peace or criminal damage in offices or municipal buildings, Kosovo police will intervene without thinking and will take all legal measures. "What does this mean? Why is this attitude important? What message did the Kosovo police send to Serbs in the municipality of Strpce? He says this to him -- you free, not Serbs, make a mess in that municipality, make a mess, and we'll charge them and arrest all of them, so that you can legally enter a municipality that isn't yours. Because of all this, Mr. Minister, it is very important to me, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, what will the Assembly of the Republic do if Kosovo police arrest Serb representatives legally elected in the local elections, i.e. in their parallel bodies, as they call it, and who will stand in the protection of Serbs from the municipality of Strpce and throughout Kosovo and Metohija, as this is only one example of how abuse by the DS is committed by the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4676	Thank you. Mr. Buha, and then Mr. Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've all been brought together into a confusion because they didn't welcome this implementation of the foreign law. We have a huge number of amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party. We've been talking about 15 legal projects in the last 15 days. It is inappropriate for every MP to carry all the legal projects with him and all the materials we receive from professional services. In particular, I was an authorised representative of the SRS for this law, I was making amendments, and I left that documentation at home, according to the agreement. I, among other things, have to go out here on many occasions and now I have a problem with how to (and thank God, I'm an older man) memorize everything I've prepared for these legal projects, so, in order to prepare myself in a certain way, I have to take from my colleagues. No one, more or less, is in a position to carry such a bag; specifically, my bag was heavy, about a dozen pounds, so if we do this, I'm going to have to ask the President of the Assembly to pay me one man to carry that bag, because I can't wear it. Therefore, we need to take this seriously. So we can't talk about three or four legal projects one day. We cannot prepare ourselves enough, nor can you adequately lead this congregation if it comes to abundance. This is particularly interesting with government representatives, who must be here; they need to know clearly when and at what point comes which law, to prepare them, to come out here, to accept certain amendments if they are valid and give the opportunity to fix legal projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4678	Thank you. In particular, your amendment has been accepted and is considered an integral part of the proposed text of the Government. I would just like to say that 19 amendment promoters, members of the Serbian Radical Party, are present here at this time. Mr. Zivkov, come in. Then Mrs. Radeta on two occasions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4679	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. Madam President, I think by counting the MPs of the SRS not to violate the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of the Assembly, you're counting us, not to say, as sheep. It is our parliamentary groups that are present to hear the amendments of their colleagues or prepare the amendments, which should now be prepared quickly because you planned this item of the agenda for Monday or Tuesday, the working day of the session. In a regular session of the Assembly, working days are Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and in an emergency session you can schedule a session when you think you should schedule it. I've called the Rules of Procedure, just to say some things to Mrs. Elvira Kovac. She said today that she is trying to make parliament efficient, that she wants to get us into Europe as soon as possible, etc., while on the ground the party she belongs to is doing other things entirely. For example, in the Becay municipality of Elvira Kovac, she voted in favour of the initiative that in the Becay municipality, two populated towns belonging to certain local communities get the status of populated towns and be special local communities, which are settlements with 100% of the population of Hungary's nationality. On the other hand, in the Vienna municipality, I've already talked about this pay phone, privatisation. The tycunisation of local self-government has just been done and established by your party in Vienna, because your leader i.e. The president of your party is a member of the board of directors in PIC Vienna. You know very well what I'm talking about. If you don't think I'm right and I'm wrong, come out and deny me. It is a harmful action as regards the local self-government of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia, not what the SRS and SRS MPs are doing in parliament. We try to explain it to the citizens of Serbia, explain what you are doing, and the other is what you are saying. You have called us demagogues and retrograde forces, and in fact we are retrograde forces only when we recognize your actions regarding the Republic, the province and local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4680	I'm sorry if you got the number I mentioned in the negative connotation. In accordance with Art. 221 and 222, the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly and I was just about to say that you are indeed here and that you respect the Rules of Procedure. So it was my intention just to say that you are truly numerous and present and nothing else. Mrs. Radeta, two minutes at a time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, you have been in violation of Article 85(4) for days and days. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and without any explanation informing the Members of the People, make sure that 16 hours do not pass, and you say - today we continue to work after 18 hours; sometimes forget to say - until the end of the agenda that happens at 18 hours on the agenda, and sometimes you say that. Without any reason, we're working on Monday, we're working on Friday, we're working on Saturday. We SRS MPs mostly don't react like that because we're here to work, unlike those who can just nod their heads and wave their hands, I don't know what that means to them. It would be nice now to make a quick quick survey; Mr. Todorovic asked you to show the amendments, and I, here, just to say which two laws are now in the agenda, just the titles of the law. We can work and, not to be mistranslated that we don't want to work, we've been preparing for both this law and all the laws, but we want to stick to principles. If you're saying that some MPs told you that they have obligations on Monday and that's why we're doing it today, contrary to the agreement, then it's really amazing. I'm asking you, pursuant to Article 85, what are the particular reasons? That's what you had to do, based on item four, to tell us that we're working past the Rules of Procedure's established working time. So, please tell us what is the final date until which these laws must be passed that need to be adopted. What happens if they don't get adopted by that date? Who's responsible for not being adopted so far? So if that's how you can explain what you're just telling us -- we're extending the work, then we can accept it, or we can't accept it so we can tell you that. You haven't told the MPs yet, since you've been President, why you're extending the work. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4682	As you know, the Proposer has proposed all these laws by emergency procedure. We have declared ourselves on the agenda and have not complied with all the proposed laws that were on the agenda but have identified ourselves as those for which we have made priorities when adopting the agenda. So they are proposed by emergency procedure, we adopted them by parliamentary majority as something which is a priority compared to everything proposed and we have not adopted the complete agenda that was proposed and the reason is this urgency. The truth is that the reason we think that in the nearest period of time should come to the agenda and budget rebalance, it is very important for the functioning of the state. There is no secret that we are in a hurry, not at the expense of the quality of work, on the contrary, we think that we should do a little bit more vigorously because everything that comes on the agenda is extremely important and it represents a legal framework for the functioning of the state. I don't know if you're happy, but that would be my explanation that I said once, but maybe not always. You've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4683	Of course I am not satisfied, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, because the difference between the emergency procedure and the regular procedure, according to the Rules of Procedure, is only in the period during which MPs receive these proposals and within the deadlines for submitting amendments. What is your intimate desire, what is urgent, and what is not urgent, you must share with the MPs and with the citizens of Serbia. You still haven't explained the urgency, which is why you're in a hurry, where you're in a hurry, and why you haven't done it yet. So I'm not happy with the answer because you didn't answer the question. I was just looking at the Rules of Procedure, which, by the way, I know by heart. I tried to find a member somewhere where the MP could commend the President of Parliament, so since I haven't found such a member, I still have to use Article 104. You know, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, at least ten times you've happened to say, I'm talking about the MPs of the SRS, and it applies to others -- yes, you have the word, go ahead. A man comes, talks, and you don't know his name. When someone whispers to you, you remember to say so. That's what happened to you yesterday; I'm not gonna say just the first day or the first days. And today you have so accurately counted how many applicants of the SRS amendment are in the O.R. That's not the point, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. And last night I told you, when you tried to deceive the citizens and said - we interrupt the session because Mr. Milovanovic is not in the O.R. He wasn't today either, so I talked about his amendment for 15 minutes. So, it's not that you're trying to misrepresent yourself here. The point is that this parliament really needs to work quality, seriously, responsibly. So it's unacceptable, I'm not going to say who said it because it would be incorrect, but someone on this side, while we were arguing like this, says, hey, we pulled people out to come on Saturday, there's no point in us breaking up now. You know, I don't know who pulled who, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party normally came at the agreed time at the scheduled session and on the agreed agenda. We don't have a problem with you, which must have a certain number just to sit here and laugh like crazy at flour at everything a man says from this place. So, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, you also injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4684	The word is made by MP Momir Marinkovic. Excuse me, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4685	Since that Marinkovic is missing, I asked the chairman to speak for him. I am advocating the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 85, paragraph 4, which says: "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly may decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, that is to say, that the National Assembly extends the work even after 1800 hours if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the President of the Assembly declares to the MPs. "The chairman (or former president of the Assembly, whether Comic or you, however), agreed with the heads of parliament that Mrs. Justice was pregnant and that, in order to hurry, we would consider her laws and amendments to her laws, so we worked last night until some time today. If Mrs. Justice is pregnant, Mr. Police Minister isn't pregnant and I don't see any reason to extend today, it's Saturday, it's a day off, we've been here all day, and we stayed up till 10:00 last night. You don't understand, you have a little brain bigger than the big one and don't answer it. [[Dropping out of place.]] Em, today we've been working all day, and besides, we need to continue the law that has 40 amendments, which means 11pm, so we may not be working on Monday, and Monday, look at the order there, it's a day off. It's Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays eventually. I mean, ma'am, that there's really no reason, the exceptional situation isn't. As far as I know, there was an extraordinary situation somewhere before the vacation, so then we broke up with two months off, for more than two months, the Assembly didn't work. In the meantime, however, you did some important work to get close to Europe, so you arrested Radovan Karadzic, broke up the rally, or tried to break up the SRS rally, beat up the SRS MPs, etc. If it was for those two months, and then all of a sudden after that and sessions up to ten o'clock, until eight o'clock, session on Saturday, session on Sunday... I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that by the time we get to that Europe, everyone will come out of it and we'll be alone again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4686	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4687	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting for article 100 and for article 206. Rules of Procedure. I would have a few questions; one question for Serbian President Boris Tadic and Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic... Madam President, please calm this gentleman who keeps throwing. Was there an encounter with Montenegro's leadership just before Kosovo and Metohija's recognition, when, and was that recognition discussed? Certain information related to matters of vital importance for this country is learned from the means of public information, and it is indeed time to learn from the relevant factors, therefore, from the President of the State and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The second issue concerns Science and Technological Development Minister Bozidar Djelic. When the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, when the famous Montero government was mounted, Mr Djelic told RTS in an interview that he was visiting the departments of the MUP in Serbia, that he was doing so in the afternoon, with the intention of seeing officials do their job, whether they are working on making biometric passports. He literally said it this way on that show, and he said it would continue. Then there was a case that a portion of biometric passports had been made with about seven degrees of protection. To remind me that Western European countries have four degrees protection of biometric passports. Those passports had to be destroyed. My question is, how much are these biometric passports that have been destroyed and is anyone responsible for it? The second question for Minister Djelic is where he actually finds support for this part of his job regarding running from the department to the MUP department, when exactly what does the Minister of Science and Technological Development say in the Ministry Act? If that's a direct credit to Mr. Dacic here, I congratulate him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4688	Mrs Vesna Pesic, then Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4689	Dear Members of Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I appeal to Article 194. It's a representation of the government in the National Assembly. I'm using the minister's presence to ask a question. Mr. Minister, I must say that you have disappointed me terribly, because I expected you to propose an LDP amendment to Article 75, which I have explained very well to you and said... When it comes to party entry and registration, you only accepted the amendment to extend it from 12 hours to 24 hours, to report a visiting stranger, and you refused to delete the entire reporting of foreigners. I'm completely amazed and I want you to give me a direct answer if you can. You've explained it in some amazing way, quite the opposite. So it's about getting a stranger into the country, recording when he comes in. I told you there's a technology, a passport slip, and it was recorded when the stranger came in. Also, as you know, there's that seal. You can hit a stamp on a passport and you can tell when it came in. However, you do not accept that this member is deleted for certain reasons that we have stated, but you are citing a foreigner coming out of the country. I'll read you an explanation, because a man can't believe it. The entire article of 75 refers to the entry of a foreigner and residence, and you answer "with the departure of a foreigner from the country". What does going in and out have to do with anything? Look what you've answered. So you refuse that amendment. "The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the record of the foreigner's stay is necessary in the ministry, in order to have insight into the length of the foreigner's stay. "What does this application have to do with the length of a stranger's stay for 12 or 24 hours? He has the right to stay for 90 days. How do you know how long he'll stay based on those 12 or 24 hours? You say, "As the time of a stranger's stay is limited by this law, the adoption of the amendment would lose any record of how long he is staying, which in the government's view is not complete." How do you measure how long he's stayed and has he broken his 90-day stay, based on whether you're reporting a stranger, based on 12 or 24 hours? Please answer that question, because this is completely incomprehensible. This refers to the length of the stay, and this is about the application. I just can't believe you can give a reverse answer like this in your own way. What difference does it make when I have to report a stranger to whether he broke his three-month stay or didn't break it? In other words, through this argument, you have obliged the citizens to report and when they leave, means not when they enter, that I measure how many foreigners they will stay, whether they stay over it or not... (President: Time. ) You have in your passport a seal when he entered, a seal when he came out and you can see if he broke the time of his stay and that's why you have a record. In doing so, you call very boldly to the fact that this is a common practice in all countries. I'm going to ask again to explain my practice in other countries. You have that card, it binds your passport card, when you have to go out and when you come out, take the card and you're done. Why did you respond to that application amendment with the opposite dating practice? What's it to me? So I have to make sure he broke 90 days. Since it is, Mr. Dacic, you have disappointed me that you want to advertise as vice president of the government by hiring for your sports consultants to advise you on sports. What do you have to do with sports? You want me to advise you on diaspora and humanitarian work... (President: Time. ) What does it have to do with your role, and you burden this government, that someone advises you on sports and humanitarian work, and we also have the Ministry of Diaspora? That's two things, and I had to use your presence to advertise this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4690	Mr. Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, pages 1 and 2, quote: "The Members of the People are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly." Item 2: "The People's Messengers are obliged to address one another with respect." I think MP Elvira Kovac has injured the dignity of Serbian Radical Party MPs. I quote -- they come up on all kinds of questions; secondly, they talk about everything and everything; thirdly, I appeal that this is where they talk meaningfully. I regret that Mrs. or Miss Kovac did not use her pay phone date to explain to the ignorant how it makes sense. Now, because of the citizens of Serbia, I will briefly remind myself of the topics that we have discussed over the past five days, which are topics "on everything and everything": the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, the proposal for a law on the confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automatic processing of personal data (all these are extremely important laws without which we cannot, so you all rush us every day), the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property stemmed from a criminal offence, a bill on legal liability for criminal offences, a bill on the establishment of a anti-corruption agency, a bill on amendments and amendments to the law on the financing of political parties. We also talked about the following topics, mainly coming up in the Rules of Procedure: the problems that students of Belgrade University have been protesting on the streets of Belgrade for five days, then, on the secessionist Statute of Vojvodina, on the work of district courts acting on the complaints of the SRS, or on the attempt by a phantom party to kidnap several hundred parliamentary mandates of the SRS, on the attempt of the same group to kidnap 20 parliamentary mandates of the SRS and thus practically overlap and steal the electoral will of Serbia's citizens, then, on the recognition of the terrorist formation of independent Kosovo by the regime in Montenegro, on the position of the poorest layers of the population. Yesterday we talked about it in the days of the poor, and we pointed to the fact that Serbia has 500,000 people living below the poverty line. I was talking about 50,000 inhabitants of the Great Plan who haven't had drinking water in five years. We discussed an announcement by EU and EULEX representatives that the final phase of talks with the regime in Belgrade would legalise the status of EULEX in Kosovo and Metohija. Elvira Kovac is everything. What worries me is that it seems to be everything and the ruling majority, because we've been discussing a total of 14 laws these few days, and we're expecting a debate, and you 128, 130, I think... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... you have not submitted any amendments. Thank you, and since I feel that this really is a violation of the dignity of the MPs, I ask that the Assembly in voting day be made known about this injury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4692	You've really pointed out the importance of the law, and I thank you for that. The particular reason why I think we should have some dynamics at work is the draft law on amendments to the Higher Education Act, which is next after this debate is under way. Mr. Vladan Jeremic reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I really hope this is the last time I call on Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament, which is all about better or worse hidden cynicism or the hypocrisy of the ruling coalition MPs, this time Ms. or Mrs. Elvira Kovac, and their help to work. You have been told well, you have had the opportunity during these four months to participate in the work of this congregation home. You clearly don't want it, you're bored, and then those amendments we're trying to at least sort of fix these radical legal proposals that we have daily in the congregation procedure are accusing us not only of obstructing but also of being unemployed. Then when we want to talk about some life-long, current issues and issues, it bothers you, so this time I will use only my parliamentary right, according to Article 225. Rules of Procedure, and the presence of Interior Minister Ivica Dacic to today's meeting. First of all, I would like to point out that after my performance of three or four days ago and the commendation given to the MUP for the arrest of the largest drug dealer in the municipality of Mladen Novakovic, as well as after our writing in the special edition of "Greater Serbia", one of the prominent DS members and financiers in Mladenovac Director of "Keramike" Mladenvac Nenad Arambasic is invited to an informative conversation, and probably it has to do with "Intergas" and "Oil BG" etc. I'd just like to repeat that really sincere wish that even during this first case... I remind MPs that the same Novakovic, therefore the biggest drug dealer, has said that he has funded local politicians in Mladenov to come or rather survive in power. I hope, because of the citizens of the Young Man, that you'll get that thing cleaned up, and that we'll finally find out the truth about all this work at the Keramica. So these are some of the life issues and topics that and how they relate to all the legal proposals that have been in the congregation procedure so far. This time, I'm going to use this little time to open up just one more question, that is, the problem that the citizens of Mladenvec have raised in the conversation with me, which is an attempt to bring one of the few light points to Mladenov, which is the Institute of Rehabilitation Selters, to topple collapse. The beginning of the end was in 2001 by the election of Stanka Vidakovic as director of the Institute. It was elected, of course, on behalf of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia, and, on a proposal from the Management Board of which Dr. Branko Nikolic, otherwise the best man, Rasim Ljajic, was elected. This board of directors expired in 2004... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, and the director of the Institute, which normally employs 500 people, magically continues to perform his duty. I'll honor the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure, but I'll point out the real problem later or the first time, so you'll all hear what's going on at the Selters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4694	The word is Mr. Milorad Buh, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will read the provision of article 85 here. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. He's very important. Paragraph 1 states: "The session of the National Assembly, which discusses the proposals for legislation, development plan, spatial plan, budget, final account, Rules of Procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions, conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts by the National Assembly, shall be held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in a period of 10 to 18 hours with an end of one hour. "It is also important that attitude 5: "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly can decide that the National Assembly session is held for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends its work after 18 hours, if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the president declares to the MPs. "The president of parliament did not say what justified reasons these are, and the justified reasons are indeed justified, the current government stresses them, which is the adoption of these three legal projects relating to the white Schengen list. The current government, as well as the president of parliament, has on several occasions deceived the public by blocking parliament from the SRS and other parties. That's why we can't get to legal projects. I must once again warn the current authority, and also the President of Parliament that such information cannot go. Why? Because on July 21st, we were sent on an emergency vacation. I deliberately say forced because it was known why we were going on vacation; Dr Radovan Karadzic was arrested and we had to leave. After that, we went on a regular vacation, so we worked for two days, so we went on vacation again. I no longer know how to legally illustrate what it means to go and why parliament does not work during that period. I'm sure it's important that we get to the white Schengen list. The Serbian Radical Party stands for it. It also advocates the adoption of these laws; we are trying to correct and suggest to government representatives certain solutions that, according to the SRS, are important to be incorporated into legal projects. Here, let's get out of all this, out of this dead end that we're set on fire right now, I have a solution. The Vice-President and Vice-President and Minister of the Interior will accept all amendments to the SRS and we will be very soon... I'm telling you responsible for the very well-reviewed amendments, that they are constructive, that they are realistic, that they improve legal... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... projects and I think it would be justified for them to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4696	Mr. Avramovic first. The length of the summer break was otherwise on the proposal of your parliamentary group to calm down political passions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I remind you of section 3. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly - During the session, Article 98 paragraph 3, which says: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. "So the conclusion here is very simple. Here, I counted, I didn't find it hard: the draft law on the parties to the Liberal Democratic Party proposed five amendments, the DSS two amendments, DS two amendments, which became an integral part of the bill because the government accepted them, and 29 amendments to the SRS. Since we in the SRS, with 29 amendments, ask you to postpone this session and schedule it for Monday so that we can talk realistically about these amendments to this law, and you don't want to do it, it only says one thing - that you are demonstrating force here. So if 29 MPs have proposed an amendment and wants to explain their amendments precisely and well, and you do not allow them to do so because you are forcing them to work past preparation, the conclusion is made and the question is, who are they obstructing here? How do you think you're going to stick the label to us now, the one you're using? Then comes someone who has not submitted any amendments throughout this term in the Republic Parliament, someone who does not participate in the debate on any agenda, someone who does not even want to answer questions, not ask questions, and accuses us of obstructing. Use this article in line with the Rules of Procedure, Article 98(3), to terminate this session, to schedule it for Monday, because you have the right to do so, so that we can explain nicely, fundamentally, all the proposals we wanted to make here, even if we could convince the Minister to accept some amendments that the Government did not want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4698	He has the word Mr. Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4699	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I shall make a constructive proposal in brief. I'm sure everyone here will accept it and we'll find a solution to getting out of this crisis to consider amendments submitted to the bill. I suggest that Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic take a break for only 30 seconds, invite the presidents of the parliamentary groups to come to an agreement and we will solve the problem. Since only the president of the parliamentary group, Mr. Todorovic, is here, I think this problem will be resolved quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4700	He's got a word, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4701	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, was just mentioned by the Liberal Democratic Party when amendments were listed. I didn't understand the context in which my colleague mentioned us. I wanted to say that we as LDP don't mind doing it today, but we fully understand the MPs of the SRS who, here, since the continuing session persisted in their request, as well as what the predecessor said -- that it would be best to call the Parliament club. We agree with that, because there's also a deputy head of the Parliament Club here to see if we're going to work under this law today. Mr. Dacic, I just wanted to pick up where Mrs. Vesna Pesic stopped. She mentioned that you took a counselor with the help of the advertiser. I am much more concerned by the second adviser, Mr. Tom Fila, since you are the interior minister, and Mr. Toma Fila is a person who as a lawyer strongly advocates the UN tribunal, which is one of the lawyers who defends those indicted before The Hague tribunal. It's kind of like a conflict of interest to me. As much as you have dared to explain that you have not participated in the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, I fear that, with such an adviser, you will do everything to ensure that the remaining two crimes indictees, Mr Ratko Mladic and Mr Goran Hadzic, are not arrested. That's why I'm more concerned about that other counselor, Mr. Tom Phil. I don't mind if you advertise with Mr. Divac's help, but I'm more concerned about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4702	There's a word Mr. Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4703	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 226 and I'm asking for a notice from you. Before I ask for a notice, I'd just like to suggest something. I'm sure you're a smart woman and you have a way out of this situation. I don't see why you insist so much that it continues with this agenda point, first of all. Yesterday, you said that the parliamentary majority did not think so and that you were sorry to comment on an opposition MP, and today you demonstrate force and dictatorship. I'm convinced you're not in a hurry to Europe personally, and I don't think there's any reason why you shouldn't postpone this agenda. And if you are in such a hurry in Europe, in fact, Europe does not want Serbia. That's what this MP wants. Let's just remember how Bozidar Djelic yelled from this pay phone -- come on, come on, he almost took off, and then we got a slap from Holland and Belgium. You will adopt all these laws and we will not go to the EU again, and we will not leave because they want democracy and respect for the law in the EU first and foremost. When someone does not respect democracy and the law, above all its laws, cannot expect to be accepted in the EU. The MPs of the SRS ask you only to obey the law, to respect what is agreed in this high house. To be more concrete, on the basis of the number of MPs won by the SRS, we were assigned, in one political agreement, two vice-presidential seats in the Assembly. Today, the SRS has only one place and there is Ms. Jovanovic. You allow a citizen, a retired, to sit at the post of vice president. If he has any problems, or anything, in this House there is a party that has its own representatives, it is a PUPS, it can address them, but sitting at the post of vice president belonging to the SRS is simply unacceptable. It's been three minutes. You've allowed the theft of your mandate. I'm sorry, I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4704	There's a word Mr. Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I usually want to work, make laws and get back to the agenda. If there was any intervention, it was in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4705	Dear colleagues, I am reporting on the basis of Article 104(2). I thank the President of Parliament for actually helping with the introduction to the discussion that I would like to address and appeal to my colleagues, above all from the SRS. Now Mr. Todorovic says, "Not at all costs." You know what, because of such a procedure, I can understand that obstruction is a legitimate tool unless we want to accept something... I said it's Article 104, Section 2, it doesn't matter, they don't speak either. I don't want to communicate, I just want to appeal. So, you can, and very skillfully do it, many of you have been sitting here for years in parliament, never in power, so you're sitting down and you've reported very much in what kind of cellophane you're going to give what you want politically. Obstruction is a legitimate thing, and if Mr. Todorovic is already saying "not at all costs", then those headlines in the paper, where it doesn't distinguish which MPs, unless we get a list of how much we charged, and there are champions among you, then they don't even us. I don't want to be part of a well-packed obstruction and I don't want to take this kind of salary by explaining it to high moral and high-priced political views. In this House and in this assembly, gentlemen, never in practice, not as much as you would like it, it is not forbidden for me to speak to you personally as an obstruction – even on behalf of my parliamentary group, as an MP, as a man who is involved in politics and who participates in public life – it is never here for you... Even to a greater extent than it may be, to say the measure of things, so more than you may deserve, you are allowed to report, use this pay phone, use, sometimes abuse, and even solve, these are no longer internal problems, your relationships with your colleagues this morning. Allow us other messengers, if you do not wish, that we too may retain a little honor, dignity and cheek toward this people. We have sometimes thrown out the unnecessary criticism of the public, because there are many laws in this House. We even let the executive power not as interesting as the MPs are and as much as we're to blame for everything. Please, it wasn't my intention to be maligned. I am first of all an MP, and I have certain obligations to this people and to those people who voted for me. Please, I don't mind that if we can find a measure of things, we can even send a series of messages that we want to send to the public, but to spend the time of this Parliament, and if we've already stayed up to 17 hours, we can spend up to 18 hours, it's not controversial, until 19 and 20 hours, and without effect. Believe me, the idea of my discussion wasn't to insult anyone, the idea was to invite you all, to measure, to simply... People say wisdom begins with a sense of measure. I want to appeal to you as colleagues to come here, and for the citizens who voted for us and for the need to have efficiency in the work of Parliament, find a measure, to spend some more time on all this we want to say, and then to keep doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4706	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard a previous speaker who, frankly, is about to come out of their mouths of honey and milk. But well, he probably forgot the time when he was an opposition, so now he wanted to show what his value was as a position. According to Article 226, I would like to ask one parliamentary question, which is related to the formation of a committee. The Science and Technology Committee and many other committees have not been formed. I'm interested in why these committees haven't been formed and it's been one longer period of time, a few months since the Assembly was established. I think it was necessary to form all the committees so that they could address certain issues from their area that are present, especially those related to students' problems, and normal and science, which is welcome in solving all these problems that are present in the economy and in the state. I'd also like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question. We remember well when we acted as an opposition and when many who abused privatisation... And these previous laws that were in the implementation, which we discussed yesterday and the day before yesterday, we talked about this business... But where there's already some information that could lead to criminal proceedings, I don't know why these proceedings aren't already in place. Are these laws waiting? I don't think it has anything to do with whether or not the property was taken away, later or later, but certain people were supposed to be behind the lock. That doesn't seem to have happened. I'm looking for an answer for what. I am asking for an answer from the Minister of the Interior, since we certainly know very well that the Minister of Privatisation since 2000, so we call Mr. Vlahovic, and the director was then the current Prime Minister Cvetkovic... However, there are many unresolved problems related to the privatisation of many companies. What I'm saying is about privatizing many companies in the Sabbath community, where there's data, there's documentation that speaks of major crime. Even Minister Vlahovic for individual privatised enterprises, where there were certain data on abuses, until at a given moment, before his shift, or before the end of the option of the first Dosmania government, I saw... I'm surprised it's not on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4708	The selection of board members is the 14th item of the agenda of this session. That's the answer to your question when the board members will be elected. The word is Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank everyone who wants to help the Serbian Radical Party, but don't, please, try hard, there's no need. I'm not even going to tell you to try to help your own party, your own MP group, that's your business. As to whether or not we have a measure, whether the measure is a sign of wisdom or something else, even a reflection of domestic education, the citizens of Serbia will assess. What we don't want at all costs, we won't be in power at all costs, we won't have a debate at all costs. Among other things, you could hear, I don't boast of it, but you could hear the closing word of Justice Minister Snezana Malovic who came out and said that she was extremely pleased with the quality of the debate, the proposed amendments and all the suggestions and that she was even sorry that some amendments could not be accepted and, as far as she was concerned, I had the impression that she would do so. I suppose the interior minister will also be able to reach a certain conclusion after the debate is held; whether it will come to the same or different, we will see when the debate is over. But when we say we're not going to have any discussion at all, that means we've been, I'm not going to say that we've been deceived, that we've been mistaken because we agreed to change the order of the agenda points and to discuss this law on Monday. That's what's making it impossible for us, because people have even come without amendments, they've come to end this part of the agenda. But you just keep wanting to finish what you're interested in, get it started, end another law and say you're closer to the white Schengen list or to entering Europe. It's not gonna happen. As for honor and cheek, do not guard ours, guard yours, and we have shown for this past time that we have cheeks and that we know how to preserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4710	The word is by MP Dusan Maric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am re-admiting the violation of Article 104 paragraph 2: "The Members of the People are obliged to address one another with respect. "I trust my denominator, Mr. Bajatovic, that he didn't mean to say anything bad at the expense of the SRS, but if he takes a stenogram he'll see that he said about three minutes of all the bad things, wrapped up in a cellophane but bad things about the SRS. He says, always in parliament, never in power. We aim to win power, however, as Mr Todorovic said, never at any cost. If we wanted at all costs, we would now be the ruling coalition. Next, you're masters of obstruction, to wrap it in a cellophane. Third, the champions of raising the logs. I'll look back on that moment, that claim. The first thing, the height of the diaries in the Assembly was not determined by the Serbian Radical Party, we were not the majority here for seven or eight years, therefore, the height of those diaries was determined by you. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I want to say that these diaries are, I think, two thousand and some dinars. For that journal, I'm leaving the house at 7:00 in the morning and I'll be back at 10:00 p.m. I really don't think I'm overpaid, as far as the diaries are concerned. The next thing, if one of the SRS MPs, whom Mr. Bajatovic says are at the top of the raised diaries, has raised some diaries that do not belong to him, then does not bear the responsibility of the SRS, bear the responsibility of the assembly administration that allowed it. I claim there is no such case. Here, I insist, if there's an SRS MP who's been raising a journal that doesn't belong to him, someone get out here and let him know. When it comes to receiving MPs, I want to say one thing for the citizens of Serbia. I'm not saying that our receipts are small, the amount of income you've set again, you can reduce them as much as you want, but, say, BiH lawmakers have three times as much income as MPs in the Serbian Parliament. MPs have a starting salary of 75,000 dinars. You saw the other day in "Evening News" a list containing the receipts of directors and board presidents of various public enterprises in Serbia. You saw their average salary between 300,000 and 400,000 dinars. I just want to say one more thing: Parliament's receipts are the only income that the SRS has, the only source by which we earn certain funds from this state. You've been in power for 15 years, you take where you get to, and that's a little bit, and you blame us for taking MPs' salaries and journals.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4712	Mr. Buha, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4713	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I understand the haste of the current authorities to adopt these laws, however, the public must know that these authorities and previous authorities must be far more up-to-date and agree far before all legal projects are adopted and, in particular, legal projects in the area of visa liberalisation, anti-corruption laws, laws on the protection of human environments, etc. The current government in that field doesn't do anything, and I'm going to illustrate it through several examples. According to the government's 2004 Action Plan, all state authorities were obliged to prepare all the legal projects I was talking about It is the Action Plan on Harmonisation of Legal Regulations between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union. The 2005 national strategy for EU accession also obliges state authorities, where dynamics and paces and executioners are identified under these legal projects. Since 2004, we have passed about 300 laws; about 75 each year. At that rate, in order to bring all the legal projects together, it takes 55 years. If we were to speed up a little bit, and we can hardly, every day, adopt one law, do this pace as we do now, it takes us 20 years. I am not talking about 65,000 other legal and sublegal acts that our country and our state authorities must agree on with the legal projects of the European Union. These indicators tell us how much we're in a hurry. The Serbian Radical Party is working on it, as is any opposition in the world; it works within two basic principles -- do not propose and vote against it. This is parliament, the term comes from the French word "parlare" which means to speak, to talk. The opposition around the world is doing exactly what he's doing - talking. When you say Parliament's blockade, you have to say where there's a ban on talking in the Rules of Procedure. We came here to talk, to have a discussion, to agree and eventually to come up with legal projects. The current government must move far faster... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You have a huge machine that pays for Serbian citizens, but you do nothing to keep that machine in operation. (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4714	Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam President, Dragan Stevanovic, Milovanovic, Sulejman Spaho, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Martinović, Nikola Žutić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Jovan Damjanovic, Vitomir Plužarević, Dejan Mirović, Filip Stojanović, Mladen Grujic, Marko Djurisic, who are applicants of the amendment to this law, are not in the hall. Just so much about the correctness and the way to keep filling in what is really incorrect and breaking the deal that existed during last night's debate and the afternoon's work. Mr. Dacic, I believe you planned something else for this afternoon. Come on, what you agreed with Tadic at 12 o'clock, and it was your turn to make a cocktail party, something like that, and have some guests come to you from all over the world. We are now learning that you have been invited to come, and all these people who have been informed, MPs from the Serbian Radical Party, the Liberal Democratic Party, New Serbia, the Democratic Party of Serbia... I personally feel responsible not only for Serbian radicals, but also for counterpart Mladen Grujic from New Serbia. A nice man asked me three days ago when the foreign law would come on the agenda, I told him yesterday morning – here, Mladen, this afternoon. So, I got this synopsis from the secretary, from the service, to go with the foreign law. No, we have a request for Minister Snezana Malovic and such a situation; come on, no problem. I tell him -- nothing, Grujic, is now (and the others who were preparing for it), will be on Monday. Is it safe? I say, surely, I'm ready to put my head on a log, as you say, to swear. I cheated on a man. They won't blame me for these Serbian radicals, because they know who I'm dealing with. And, right to tell you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I know this isn't your butter. I don't want anyone to think it's local patriotism, so we from Kragujevac are protecting ourselves; you know it's not, it doesn't matter. If it's someone who's an apostate and who's a bad man, like the Kragujevac one, you know that I'm going in the most powerful way, rhetorically, to someone like that, and that has nothing to do with it. But now, as a woman who's been told so, you have to do it that way. Mr. Dacic, until five minutes ago, a lady with whom you entered the declaration today, the reconciliation process, imagine what a disrespect to you and this law, and she wants the lady in Europe to do the crosswords. When I saw that the last page of the list of "Enigma," or that of those puzzles, she solved, cigarettes in her hand, and the lady came out, the MP of the DS. I must say, she never answered her word in the last congregation meeting. Otherwise she's one of the most uncultural MPs, throwing away, and all the time since we started, she's been doing the same thing. Now she's gone, she probably went to the first bar to buy a new puzzle. We need to talk here... Mr. Dacic, you've taken over... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, one serious portfolio, with you being the first deputy and vice president, Ministry of the Interior. The law on foreigners is a condition for the White Schengen list, but most seriously we have approached it, with great experience we have, because we have burned in the previous period and when it comes to their retention and work, and what they are doing here, and refugees, etc., who the status requires. Don't make us, this is already the weather, Saturday afternoon, when we're in a situation where there's obviously no good will on your part to solve it, and I've listed which colleagues aren't here. It's not right and it's not right for us to continue this way. It is not right, counterpart Bajatovic, and it is not right that you did not listen to the appeal of the majority Serb population, not only Serbs in Vojvodina, but also with me in Šumadija, not to vote for the Separatist statute of the Vojvodina Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4716	Mr. Vladan Jeremic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4717	Given that I respected those three minutes ago, so I wouldn't remain unspeakable, I'll continue. We pointed to another problem related to the Municipality of Mladenovac and the Institute of Rehabilitation "Selters". You heard that the beginning of the end practically took place in 2001, when the director of the Institute was elected, on behalf of the Ministry of Health of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and at the proposal of the Management Board, whose chairman was Professor Dr Branko Nikolic, the godfather Rasim Ljajic. The same board of directors... (President: Please state which member of the Rules of Procedure and what the injury is concerned. ) It was a member of 104 when I first reported, so I took advantage of my right under Article 225. The Rules of Procedure, and I respected those three minutes that belonged to me, and I left the pay phone. But so I wouldn't stay out of line, because of the citizens who asked me to bring this up, I came out again. (President: This is one time of parliamentary question and your findings. I'm taking the opportunity to tell you that I've made arrangements with the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. We will find a formula for both of them to come to parliament and discuss all the issues. I think you're using the same content twice the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. Please finish in three minutes. ) No, during my first announcement, I wanted to take advantage of the presence of the interior minister and to commend what the members of the MUP did, and it is also related to some events in the Mladenovac municipality. What I've reported for now is something I'm pointing out to them and I hope it will be as successful as the last two times. This same board of directors expires in 2004, and the director of the Institute, which otherwise employs 500 people, continues to perform his duties in a magical manner. A new board of directors, led by Dr Aleksandar Gajic, was then elected, otherwise when G17 from Valjev, while Milan Djurdjevic, chairman of the G17 municipal board, was appointed as chairman of the Supervisory Board, but in Mladenov. Within this institute there is also the Vrmac Institute - Prcanj in Boka Kotorska, which has operated as a business unit, and the independence of Montenegro is registered as a business for tourism and hospitality. This company, by chance or not, tends to lose almost a million euros a year, which is covered by the Selters - Mladenovac, where there is a 100% capacity of 500 beds. The capacity is so high, and the average daily rent of beds is about 3,000 dinars, which translates into about 1.5 million dinars a day. How is it possible that Dr Vidakovic, mentioned for eight years, has been acting as director and has been elected for four years and has expired in 2005, and the Management Board has not called a competition for the director? On what basis is budget spending possible and how is it that none of the authorities are interested in the losses of one million euros a year and that all of this lasts for eight years? How is it that all trade unions point to a number of irregularities in G17's management staff and none of the authorities want to or won't react? (President: Time, Mr. MP. Half a minute. Isn't it absurd for a director to drive in a car worth tens of thousands of euros, as one, once extremely respectable, institution collapses, in European proportions? How is it that although the state pays primary health care, the medical work that exists within the Institute is in a catastrophic state? I'm sure those of you who have been there for the past few years have witnessed it. What about the fact that the Sokobanska street laboratory, that is, the part of the Institute that is also on Sokobanjska Street, is made up of an ordinary coffee bar? I expect, on behalf of the citizens of Mladenec, answers, to expect law enforcement and to expect the prevention of the complete collapse of the Institute of Rehabilitation "Selters" in Mladenov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4718	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4719	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dacic, I have come to you to clarify this situation where we are, because I think that if it threatens the dignity of this assembly we must at least try to preserve it for a little while. This isn't a normal congregation debate, this is no longer like anything. This policy of exhausting MPs cannot lead us to leave parliament, but it is unworthy of the subject we are discussing, the minister who represents the Government here, and I think that we are the most insulting of our own Parliament and we are destroying a low reputation anyway. Madam President, during yesterday afternoon, we were asked to respect specific circumstances and to practically agree to an agreement with the government's representatives, in order to end up within the defined deadlines of the debate on the laws represented here by Minister Malovic. We agreed to that. This doesn't lead to anything anymore. It is now Saturday, half-six, MPs are dissatisfied, we will hardly be able to function normally in parliament unless we respect the basic arrangements. If there was any particular reason for a meeting like this, then okay, of course we'd accept it. We finished the debate seven days ago around 12.00 hours ago, the assembly stopped working until Tuesday. Friday afternoon, Monday work day, we didn't work. What is this going to turn into? How will the minister discuss these amendments seriously with us? If we need amendments and if we need MPs, let's respect each other elementally and return to the context of reasonable debate. Tell us why it has to be done this way. If the reason is objective, we'll accept it. At midnight we chose governments here. If there is no reason, apply Article 98 and return the elemental order to our debate. We're in a parliamentary club, waiting for our amendments, but I really think it's humiliating for all of us and for you as Parliament's president, for the chairman next to you, for ministers, for all MPs, to debate in this way. You know the order, and we don't respect that order here, I don't know why.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4720	For the sake of the public, it would be good to know who agreed with you, as I have information from the representatives of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group and the parliamentary majority that there was indeed an agreement that we were doing quite normal today. I'm on my way to Kragujevac and I'm back to work normally. Mr. Christin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I cannot understand that you will not respect what is most important, and you also do not respect the MPs, you do not respect this largest legislative home in the Republic of Serbia, and that is an agreement between the heads of parliament groups. When something's settled, it should be over. When the work of this Parliament is in some crisis, you interrupt, there is an agreement between the heads of parliament, you agree and we continue the work. Had Cedomir Jovanovic not come to my proposal to conduct a conversation with the heads of the parliamentary groups, except Dragan Todorovic, head of the SRS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Seselj, with whom could you agree here on a normal continuation of work? I really don't see why it was so important to continue working on certain points today, the law on foreigners, the state border, education, and why it's so urgent that, as you said, you returned from your path to Kragujevac. No one from the government remembered, nor did the Minister of Agriculture, when the autumn papers were completed to come and say something about the situation in the agrarian. We care about these laws, but the agrarian situation doesn't matter in Serbia at all. It doesn't matter if the subsidies are given to registered agricultural holdings, whether the price of corn, which is three times lower than last year, is now adequate for that farmer, farmer, paor, whatever you want to call it, to live normally. If he could handle ten years of sanctions, I think this year you'll destroy him with this kind of work. Please, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, to reason with you, to bring this session to an end and to continue working on the normal agenda Monday, because this really doesn't lead to anything. It doesn't lead, because you don't respect what's fundamentally agreed with the heads of parliament, or because the head of the DS Group told you it was a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4722	Mr. Secretary is asking for a word. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have responded to your call to come here to represent the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on this agenda law. Of course, I respect the fact that relations between MP clubs and I fully respect and the remarks that this is a very important area and a very important topic for citizens of Serbia. In order not to lose minutes of speaking about the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we at today's session, respecting the objections that could be heard from the representatives of the SRS, move to a discussion in particular, concluded by the amendment to Member of the 14th People's Parliament, Dusan Maric, and then to continue the debate on Monday. I am at your disposal when you schedule a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4724	I thank you for your constructive proposal. Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4725	Madam President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we need an explanation as to what this urgency is now. Namely, what's the problem, Mr. Dacic? In fact, we've just finished discussing amendments to a set of justice ministers' laws. We really need time to prepare for this debate. We've worked here for five days without any major problems. There were some differences, but we were having a serious discussion. There are no elements or preconditions for a normal debate, that's all. We are in this situation only because we have made a clear agreement, i.e. We were asked for a favor to continue the debate during today, given that the minister is busy on Monday. We agreed to that. You did make a concession, not a debate in general, etc. However, it is difficult to participate in a comprehensive discussion without the material we need for it. Simply, if we had been announced, then the services would have prepared materials for us and we could participate. This way, let the party whose amendments are now in order. These aren't our amendments. We can't participate in a discussion about them because we're not prepared for it. We're prepared for what we wrote, and then we can continue on Monday. It's a theme for the SRS. We can't, it would be irresponsible to take part in the debate on the amendments of other parties, without being prepared for it, because we didn't know that today's session epilogue would be like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4726	Konstantinović Nenad, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4727	I reported that on behalf of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, I say that we support the proposal made by the minister, given that the MPs who tabled these amendments are in the hall and that we can discuss it normally, and on Monday we will continue to discuss the details.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4728	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Vukovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the basis of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in front of the SRS, I submit an amendment to the proposal for a law on foreigners, which reads: "Article 2 paragraph 1 of point 2) also states: 2) which, under international law in the Republic of Serbia, have exercised the right to work or have been authorised by representatives of diplomatic and consular offices of foreign states, permanent and temporary missions, UN organisations, international humanitarian specialised organisations and institutions, as well as members of their families. "The explanation of the amendment – the legislator of the law is to Members 2. The bill introduced a vague provision that in practical application would cause huge problems. The said provision - "enjoying privileges" is a legal, logical and linguistic failure, so the addition provided for in this amendment is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4730	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It becomes an integral part of the text. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic. I'd just like to say, Mr. Buha has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. It has yet to formally become an integral part of the government's text until the Legislative Committee accepts it. That is, the Management Board only said it was legal; the parent board has to plead, but I mean, it's in the process, so it's not formal yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4731	I've submitted an amendment to Article 3 and I think you'll accept it, and it's about jurisdiction for foreign affairs. The words "in charge of foreign affairs" are replaced by the words "in charge of determining status, personal and other rights and obligations of foreigners. "Ladies and gentlemen, there is one big problem, and it is the purchase of property, and especially countries in Serbia's territory. We know well that in a tender for the purchase of any facility, whether a system of privatisation, foreign persons can appear and that they can buy certain resources or certain values in Serbia's territory. But you know very well that countries in the environment, or former republics, have banned the sale of land and natural resources that are very important to the lives of citizens. These days, we can read in the newspaper that, allegedly, Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic and his family bought huge wealth in the Republic of Serbia without talking about other tycoons from Croatia, Slovenia that did the same. You know very well about that folk saying, "Whose sheep, that's the meadow," or vice versa. I'm afraid tomorrow we don't get into the same situation as before the war when the folks, the Germans who lived here in Serbia, had big estates confiscated from them after the war. I'm thinking about how and how the government has passed exactly these laws and leeways related to alienating the most important values called property, land. Or you don't know whose country it is because there's been a destruction because of the destruction of a large number of agricultural cooperatives and that agricultural cooperative, in fact, of selling or renting land, usually at 99 years. You know very well that none of us know what's going to happen in those 99 years, but I can't figure out that the state and government aren't thinking about that national good after all. What's also very important, ladies and gentlemen, is that certain collective centres in which there are evicted or displaced faces... Even their status, for sure over 15 years, has not been resolved. Last time I spoke about the law on foreigners in general, I said that I was afraid that it was not another big attack to deny these people hospitality in the Republic of Serbia and that they are in a perfidious way being expelled from this country. I think these people are so threatened because they're unable to find any job or if they find it, it's usually black work. You announced that more than 70,000 people in Serbia are working on black today. Is that what the democratic government fought for on October 5th? Is that, as a colleague in Kragujevac said, the continuity of democracy? How long since 2000 parliamentary elections? In all these parliamentary elections, you promised citizens prosperity, work, you promised to resolve their status. People believe these lies of yours, fraud, yellow glue, fraud and vote for you, round you up on the ballot. When all this is over, you forget it, not looking back on the misery and poverty that is present in Serbia today. The third issue I wanted to discuss is the problem of those citizens who have properties outside Serbia's territory. In many cases, they face these border crossings... And, of course, the government itself doesn't allow them, so they have much more peritence when they have to process their own properties and end up dragging their crops into Serbia because it's usually thought to be smuggled goods. There are major problems, and people face these especially now, during the autumn of crops, corn harvests, etc. The government, the ministry and the institutions responsible for solving these problems have not properly solved these problems at all. Ladies and gentlemen, 97,000 displaced citizens have unresolved status. I ask you when will their status be resolved? Will the status of those who appear in some capacity as NGOs be resolved very quickly? They have the opportunity to walk in Serbia without being controlled, even no one can control them. This is what is present today, many spy affairs and, to call them, many spies are present in this country. I don't know which one of you is working with them, nor can I say it because I don't know it personally, but I do know that many of them are connected to these intelligence services, probably the ministries themselves, as soon as they allow them to go through this country and make certain conclusions about life. You saw, I think it was a year ago, when they talked about certain problems related to children distracted by development, how they could shoot them, and that picture went around the world. That's pretty painful. I think Serbia has become a house or, let me say, a cabin whose windows and doors are open, where certainly wolves can come without a problem and take prey. In fact, today has become Serbia because military equipment, weapons and, probably, that model of entering the Partnership for Peace has also enabled us to... My question is, how come none of you asked a question about how these people, or those NATO units, NATO villains can go through and cross the state territory of Serbia without any jurisdiction and if they do any work not subject to our laws and fall under the jurisdiction of our courts? That's one very important question. So, all these countries, in fact, have already pre-limited – if their units or their people on Serbia's territory make a criminal act, they are not subject to the laws of the Republic of Serbia. It is the most painful, it turns out that the Serbian people are unprotected, and the citizens of Serbia, which is one big problem regarding this government, which in fact probably wants the Republic of Serbia to lose what it has had for centuries, which is humanity, respect, because all the countries of the world had this very thing towards the Republic of Serbia. I think the Ministry must pay attention to these questions that I have asked, and I think I will get an adequate answer, that is, that this amendment that I have tabled on Article 3 of the Minister will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4732	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4733	Dear citizens, honourable MPs, surely this is how an agreement was thrown out between the parliamentary groups. We could talk more quality about these amendments, but since the material that we have prepared for this debate in particular has remained at home, because it was not foreseen for today to be done by this point, surely we have to collect material throughout the congregation and talk about this. In front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10, which reads: "The illegal entry into the Republic of Serbia is considered an entry", and then five views, "one outside of the place or time specified for crossing the state border; 2) by avoiding border control; 3) by using foreign, invalid, or false travel documents or other documents; 4) by giving false information to the border police; 5) during the period of the protection of foreigners from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the security measures to banish foreigners from the country or the rate of cancellation of residence. "I wanted item 6 to be added in Article 10(1) after point 5) "and in other situations that are contrary to the provisions of this law." So, in practical life, there are many situations and ways of violating the provisions on the violation of national borders and the conditions of illegal entry into the country. In order to facilitate the procedure of direct control of the state border by the competent national authorities, such a wide provision should affect enhanced control and prevent illegal entry into the country. The government rejected this amendment on the grounds that the Government did not accept the amendment for the reasons that other situations had already been proposed, but covered by Article 11. The draft law also concerns the refusal to enter foreigners, and Article 10 sets out the exact cases of illegal entry into the country. So the stranger has already entered the country, but in an illegal way, and has not been denied entry into our country. I think this attitude should also be in Article 10. But we have a situation here... And it is certain that Mr. Buha's amendment was not accepted in order for refugees to be considered foreigners. It is certain that we know what their problems currently exist in our country, their refugee status, the situation that the state does not care about refugees, that only individual local self-government and some international donations still help this population. For example, the local self-government I come from, which is the Vrbas municipality, in the previous period, while it had opportunities, while there was still a solidarity fund, could help a large number of refugees, whether buying households, because that's the only way problems can be solved. Now we're trying through various programs and competitions that exist in our country to compete as a municipality. We see that these programmes are not always high quality, and our country is wrongly discussing this with representatives of the international community, the UN and others, for example, the Italian government or the Japanese government, who are willing to give certain funds to resolve refugee status. It is certain that better quality and less money can be resolved by refugee status. In these municipalities we have, especially in rural areas, a large number of households that are for sale and prices are quite low. For example, for five or six thousand euros, households can be bought in the village, and we know that most of these refugees have come from such areas and are not used to living in apartments. They don't have the ability to earn income to support their families. In our municipality we saw that much more quality was solved in this way refugee status: we bought houses with gardens in villages, where they had the opportunity to in these gardens, gardens, etc. earn income and allow their families to feed. In Serbia, we still have 84 collective centres, over 7,500 people living in these centres in conditions that are not worthy of man. Also, we have a government that promotes victory over the UN vote, and we see that the Republic of Montenegro and Macedonia have hit a big slap on us the next day. It would be good if we could think about it if it wasn't an accident. It is clear that those who decide our fates wanted the next day to show by one great slap that what we have presented as a great victory is not really. Montenegro has done what it has done at this time, past the interest and beyond the will of its citizens. By selling out her country's territory, she took away what she could take away from the citizens, and now she has taken away what is most sacred to them, which is education and honor, recognising Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state. Also, what surprised all of us MPs today in the daily newspaper "Kurir" is that, let's say, in "Kurir" a bomb was placed, so we wondered why it was done, whether precisely because of what they published about this agreement between our government, that even our government had been synchronised into it and that in that day when it decided to return ambassadors to countries that recognised Kosovo's independence, at the same time the government of Montenegro brought an act of recognition, also the government and parliament of Macedonia. Now we see that there was an agreement to do it synchronisedly and it's just "Kurir" today. Also, these same newspapers day by day write about a politician who destroyed the country's financial flows, who shares in all the affairs that existed seven years ago in our country. Now the question is why, whether to no longer write about it, about the politician, or whether it was the agreement that existed on recognising Kosovo's independence and the Metohija, whether it bothered someone and whether that's why the "Kurir" bomb was set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4734	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we spent a good part of our time today trying to get the President of Parliament to explain to us why we had to work past a fixed agreement, and for a few days and past the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to introduce the public to what is in the reasons for the adoption of this law. Among other things, the constitutional basis is discussed, so the current law, which was passed in 1980, which was changed in the meantime, is not harmonised, etc. And then he says, "except for constitutional reasons, adopting a new regulation is one of the assumptions that our country needs to meet... "; I will read on but I am drawing attention to this -- except for constitutional reasons, the adoption of a new regulation is also for some other reasons. Is there anything more important than constitutional reasons? As it stands here, Mr. Minister, there seems to be something more important. So, you say, "except for constitutional reasons, adopting a new regulation is also one of the assumptions that our country needs to meet in order to integrate into European integration. This law therefore fully respects the Schengen Agreement and the Convention on the Application of the Agreement establishing a legal basis for the co-operation of internal affairs bodies. "This new speech makes my ears boil, you should have taken for an interpreter someone who talks in Serbian. This looks like that Hague BHS, and it sounds really uncomfortable in this House. Article 92, the last member of this law says, please pay attention to the Ministers: "This law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and will apply from 1 April 2009. "Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, if after this you have an explanation for breaking the Rules of Procedure and working out of business, then I will never report to the Rules of Procedure again. Only if you can explain what makes us work today and it is something that will apply from 1 April 2009, and can be April. As far as we're concerned, Dragan Stevanovic, a colleague, was here this morning and participated in the debate, but he moved the session of the SRS District Committee in his district from yesterday's regular period to this afternoon because he thought there were some serious people he could seriously agree with in this House. Dragan Stevanovic proposed to be in Article 11. The bill, which otherwise speaks of refusing to enter, refers to the entry-exit of foreigners from the Republic of Serbia... If there is no valid travel document or visa if necessary; 2) if there is insufficient means of maintenance during the time of stay in the Republic of Serbia, for the return to the country of origin or transit to a third country, or if there is otherwise no maintenance during the stay in the Republic of Serbia; 3) if it is not in transit and does not meet the conditions for entry into a third country; 4) if the protection measure is in force of the distance or the security of the exile or if the other measure has not been granted in the internal or international law which includes the prohibition of crossing the state border during the time of the stay; 4) if there is no confirmation of vaccination or other evidence that it has not been diseased, and comes from the area affected by an outbreak of infectious diseases; 6) if this requires reasons for the protection of the public order or the safety of the Republic of Serbia; 5) if there is no reason for the use of international citizenship and 7 in the reason of the reason of the reason for its residence; "In the third position, you say that closer to the conditions of this attitude I have now read, points 2), 5), 6) and 7) of this article is prescribed by the government. Dragan Stevanovic suggested on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that the word "government" be replaced by the word "ministration". This is not merely a correction of some mistake, a failure, but it is that the proposed provision does not comply with the Constitution, or it is contrary to the Constitution, because our Constitution provides that individual rights can be exercised in administrative or other proceedings with the competent national authority, and in this case, the competent state authority is a ministry. That is why we do not understand the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why it does not accept the amendment. You say, Mr. Dacic, or the government says, and I guess that's what you're saying here, "The government doesn't accept this amendment for reasons that it's not legally possible," I don't quite understand that, but I guess you think -- which is not legally possible, "because relations that need to be laid down in the section of different ministries, and not just from the interior ministry, so the government is the only one who has the power to regulate these conditions by a proper regulation. "This is simply not true, but this is not possible under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What other ministries are these? Then you can say nicely which ministries are responsible for point 2) which says "if there is not enough means to support during their stay in the Republic of Serbia, to return to the country of origin or transit to a third country, or otherwise not provided with maintenance during their stay in the Republic of Serbia". Who's going to tell that stranger in passing, if not the MUP, or what's the second government organ? Point 5) says: "if there is no confirmation of vaccination or other evidence that he has not been ill, it comes from the area affected by the outbreak of infectious diseases". Well, I guess the M.O.P., the police, the inspectors, or whoever's already communicating with these strangers, will be looking for that vaccination certificate, etc. He's not going to ask Tomica Milosavljevic – do you have a certificate of vaccination if you don't want me to give you a bottle? It's really amazing. (Dragan Todorovic, from town: Will Tomica for percentage. He won't be able to take a percentage here because it's a stranger who doesn't even have the means to return to his country. That's why Tomica isn't interested, otherwise of course he would... I took care of it, thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Point 6 says "if this requires reasons for protecting the public order or the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens". Who, Mr. Minister, apart from your ministry, takes care of this, of the public order and security of the Republic of Serbia and of its citizens? No one else, but your department. Point 7 says "if the relevant records are kept as an international offender". Who keeps track of whether someone is an international offender or an insider, rather than your ministry? So it's an absolutely unambiguous explanation why you didn't accept the amendment that instead of the government, it says that the ministry is an organ, because that, Mr. Dacic, is only possible under the Constitution. Here, now I suggest. I hope you followed, while you were talking to Mr. Konstantinovic, that you followed the corner of your ear what I'm saying, so that you noticed that, as a very experienced lawyer, you really drew attention that it was necessary, in fact, that I was trying to help you with the bill, and later the law, was in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The government is not a state body. The Ministries within the Government are. So here it must stand, or you could have written "the competent ministry", but since I've read you the dot by point, none of the other ministries for any of these points are competent, except for the ministry of which you're headed. I hope that if you do not now, then until the voting day you will consider and accept this amendment. Although some colleagues, especially your party colleagues, Mr Minister, assumed that the session of parliament, since it is Saturday afternoon, was watching, and they tried to draw attention that we MPs of the SRS might not be ready to discuss these amendments, you see that we are. But it was something else; it was that I was sorry now and my colleague Dragan Stevanovic would be particularly sorry and he would be offended because he was not here to hear his fellow citizens and his voters take care of this law, as he rightly wanted to draw your attention to the shortcomings of this law. He may have had some specific examples from his neighborhood, so he could tell you to ask you about something specific about this amendment, that is, Article 11 which speaks of refusing to enter the Republic of Serbia. We have written an amendment, but we would ask, Mr. Minister, that you take care of who enters the country of Serbia. I mean, let's say, at Solana, at Ollie Rehn, on the other "friends" of Serbia, because whenever they come, whenever they stay here for a few days, or some Serb goes to The Hague tribunal, or declares Kosovo and Metohija, that is, this so-called Cypriot so-called. The state of Kosovo issues passports, or adopts the Statute of Vojvodina. So whenever any of these, now and yours, friends show up in Serbia, it's hard for Serbia. It would be best to ban, specifically in this Article 11, to declare, in addition to Anka Vojvodic and this former Macedonian ambassador to Serbia, a person non grat, let's say, Manter, the ones I've already listed. There's plenty more of them that could fit into article 11. If, for the sake of Serbia's good and for the sake of Serbian citizens, we would not allow them to enter Serbia, believe me, it would be easy for us without the Schengen list and without this law, we would be much easier to live because we were sure that we were living in Serbia within the limits of this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As long as you accept them as friends, we are free of this law, and we are free of Article 11. For the formal satisfaction of the Constitution, please accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4736	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, imagine just how much a colleague Markovic has been denied that he will not speak for 15 minutes on this amendment. Imagine how much he could talk about refusing to enter some citizens or some people, as far as we're concerned, non grata, into Serbia. What did Mr. Momir Markovic suggest when it comes to Article 11? I read at the outset what article 1 contains. Article 2 says, "The refusal to enter is recorded in the travel document of a stranger." Then, the nearer conditions are prescribed by the government. We claim that the ministry should stand, but perhaps you will accept that in the meantime. What is the proposal of the SRS parliamentary group, or Mr Momir Markovic, on behalf of our parliamentary group? The proposal is to add a new position to this article after Article 3 which reads: "Extremely, a foreigner who does not meet the conditions of this member of the ministry may be granted entry into the Republic of Serbia if humanitarian, health-sanitary reasons or national interests so require." The government of the Republic of Serbia said the amendment to Article 11. Momir Markovic cannot be accepted, with an explanation saying, "The government does not accept this amendment because the amendment itself, as well as the explanation given in addition to the amendment, does not provide sufficient clear reasons for a full derogation from the conditions prescribed for the entry of foreigners into the Republic of Serbia." Mr Dacic, after what happened, the recognition of Kosovo by this treasonous regime in Montenegro, I will not talk about humanitarian or health-sanitary reasons, but I will talk about national interest. You know, you yourself, I assume, have information, a witness to what happens to Serbs in Montenegro. They're being chased at every turn. Yesterday, we informed the public, say, that Vlado Vukovic, president of Serbian radicals from Podgorica, was arrested in broad daylight for walking Podgorica and raising three fingers in protest against the regime of Milo Djukanovic, or their recognition of this false republic of Kosovo. We see from the media and hear from the people we contact that the Serbs in Montenegro are ill-written. They're starting to get fired from work, arrested, persecuted in a variety of ways. What happens if you do not accept this amendment, if some of the Serbs from Montenegro have to save their lives, save their families, if they have to back-up, without these proper documents to come to Serbia? What are you going to do? To say, I'm sorry, Serbian brother, but you don't meet the requirements of the White Schengen Act, go there, let Milo Djukanovic arrest you, let him fire you, let him threaten your family, beat you, beat you? The state of Serbia cannot treat the Serbs in Montenegro in such a way. And not only in Montenegro, of course, we should take care of all citizens, but the Serbian people certainly. We all swear in election campaigns and all public appearances, and when the law is passed, then let's forget something, which we swore during the election campaign. I don't need to remind you of a historical fact from the days of Nikola, when Montenegro was a Serbian state, but Serbs had to flee from Montenegro before the terror that was happening at the time. It doesn't look like the terror of Milo Djukanovic when it comes to Serbs is something different from the book of Nikola. Unfortunately, before this law came to be discussed, that is, before voting on this law, we have come to the situation to give you concrete examples, which is why it is necessary for you to adopt the Momir Markovic amendment. Only, even if you adopt and accept our reasons, if for nothing else, if you don't believe in something that might happen, then at least because of the Serbs in Montenegro, if you accept this amendment, our serious concern remains what will happen to these people by 1 April 2009, until this law begins to apply. We learn from the media that you and the Montenegrin minister are in very active communication these days, talking about dual citizenship. We do not have any information as Parliament officially from the government or from you as minister, but if you talk about it and if it is on the way to passing any acts on dual citizenship between Serbia and Montenegro... It is certainly understood, even if it was not written, that it would be dual citizenship for Serbs, because I do not believe that anyone from Ulcinj will ask for Serbian citizenship. Therefore, in addition to your efforts to do something different from the rest of the government, since some other members of the government have threatened to confiscate property and ban the study of Serbian students from Montenegro at our universities, etc., you have embarked on some dual citizenship talks, but let's also think about this and accept this amendment. Both of the amendments I spoke about concern Article 11, and both of them are in line with the Constitution and are absolutely in line with the national policy of the Serbian state. I hope that such a national policy as you represent it in public; as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, it is undeniable. That is why we suggest that you accept these amendments and that at least this Article 11 be a member who will be both applicable and constitutional. Because, you know, don't join, you haven't sat here so long ago as a MP, and very often we've spoken to the representatives of the authorities and warned them that it's not good to pass laws that don't comply with the Constitution, that it's not good to pass laws that are inadmissible, so I remind you of that and I suggest you don't propose a law that doesn't comply with the Constitution. Whatever kind of carnal and unconstitutional court we have, Boris Tadic and DS, since we lack this third of that court, if we were to file an appeal after the adoption of this law to the Constitutional Court, believe that article 11 would be unconstitutional to you, because you cannot declare the government a state body when only the Ministry is the authority of the state administration within the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4738	Mr. Dragan Todorovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4739	That is what it looks like when we have to go unprepared for a pay phone, but I am saying this in favour of the amendment submitted by MP Momir Markovic and what MP Verica Radeta presented, especially when it comes to the facts concerning the situation with Montenegro. You are all aware of what happened immediately after recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence by Montenegro, that the regime in Belgrade, or Boris Tadic, in all possible ways, measures that have not been taken against any other state, has tried to "train strictness" there in some way and to show it, as he is trying to protect the interests of Serbian citizens. He immediately interrupted diplomatic relations with Montenegro and Macedonia, and interestingly, with America, England, Germany, not to list all countries, not only to maintain good relations with them, but also to carry out all their tasks. What in particular becomes visible in this situation in some way, regardless of how much Boris Tadic has been trying to camouflage it, it is undeniable that there is an agreement, and it is a synchronised agreement between him and Milo Djukanovic. Normally, the moment Milo Djukanovic returned to politics again, it was clear that he had to do another dirty job for the American account to buy his freedom for the crime he did for all these years. And he did the most dirty thing possible when it comes to Montenegro, or the people of Montenegro; he caused such shame that the question of whether he would ever be able to redeem himself and wash off the move that Milo Djukanovic made. But that's also the goal of the Americans, to completely destroy us, to humiliate us, to be ashamed and ashamed of ourselves for what some have been willing to do to make money or buy themselves some poor and miserable freedom. Then, in Serbia, an avalanche of dissatisfaction was launched against the citizens of Montenegro. That's not an accident, to be clear. The citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Montenegro should be further opposed. We need to create evil blood, so there's no way to fix it. Well, here I guarantee, how many MPs there are here in the Serbian Parliament whose origins are from Montenegro, who have relatives in Montenegro, closer or later -- probably a lot. Now they want to fight us. There were also crazy suggestions to prohibit students from studying or applying to them the same archaics as to foreigners. Is there anyone normal in this country? Did you ask a question - so who comes from Montenegro to study in Serbia? Serbs from Montenegro come to Serbia to study, as they have done for many years before and after this. Where do other members of some national minorities or peoples from Montenegro go? To Sarajevo, to Zagreb, to Split. They used to go to Pristina, until Pristina came under occupation, unfortunately, and now they're leaving, but the others. You now want to make life worse for the Serbs of Montenegro and not let them study here and make them go to Sarajevo, Zagreb and slowly do what Cardellj started. You create, you and Boris Tadic, a Montenegrin nation, by trying to violently break up and prevent them from studying here. These are the things they say about Boris Tadic's regime, about two puppet regimes that carry out US and European Union functions and cause invaluable damage to Serbia and Montenegro, and citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. There's one more thing I want to mention. Unfortunately, what Milo Djukanovic did will turn Montenegro upside down. Because the time will come, the Americans will not stay and stop only at the disintegration of Serbia. If they achieve their goals, the first is Montenegro. Montenegro did not enter these borders in 1918. Some demands already exist by Albanians. The fact that Milo Djukanovic is ready to do what he does at the price of Montenegro's interest is nothing more than what you do in Vojvodina by accepting the Statute of Vojvodina. It's the same thing. It now allows this to raise the question of redefining relations within Montenegro. You remember when DPS asked the question of redefining relations within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1998; nothing happened, it was all a scenario long ago saved. That is what Montenegro expects, but the problem is that you here in Serbia and he in Montenegro execute the tasks that lead to it. You say today that the Statute of the Vojvodina is a matter that is in line with the Constitution of Serbia, that in no case is the story spoken by the MPs of the SRS true and that there can be no creation of a new federal unit. The same explanations as in 1974 when the amendments to the Serbian Constitution practically came under the occupation of the two provinces, as they could not make any decision until both parliaments agreed. Practically, autonomous provinces ruled Serbia until Slobodan Milosevic managed to change some things. Unfortunately, it looks like we're going back, that all the 8th session fluids will be cancelled, so we'll be back in a position to fight for a comprehensive Serbia. Take care when these things happen, because it is not right now; some may not see the current problem, but it is certainly such a problem that you are causing invaluable damage to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4740	Thank you. Mr. Buha, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4741	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a little clarification on the white Schengen list and the rules and conditions that we get from the EU. Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, who is in charge, among other things, of accession affairs, deceives the public and points out that it is only enough to adopt these three legislative projects, with those already brought in last year, and we have met the conditions to come on the white Schengen list. He's been spreading that story for three years, but she doesn't really stand. Why? Because the rules, the conditions we get from the EU regarding the white Schengen list are far from legal projects. What are the rules, what are the conditions for the Republic of Serbia to come from gray on the white Schengen list? First, legal projects. Further, sublegal projects. We have now yet to work, or ministry, on these sublegal acts. Further, administrative conditions - adapt the forms of EU rules. We need to adapt all the documents we issue in the MUP, i.e. all state bodies issuing documents, must fit into the rules and standards provided for by EU rules. Furthermore, agreements on the co-operation of the MUP as regards the so-called rings of protection against illegal entry of foreigners – we do not have contracts with all the countries with which we should have them, which is the EU's condition. The Ministry will have to work on this, and very soon. Other rules are for countries that are full-fledged members of the EU compared to candidates. Furthermore, the MAP, bodies implementing the control of entry into the country, must be technically and technologically equipped. They're standards and they're rules. Unique patterns are necessary. Unique entry rules - you cannot enter in the way that the EU does not predict, etc. The report must reach the European Commission by 1. 11; otherwise, we don't have a white Schengen list. We won't be able to meet all these conditions... (President: Time. Tell a member of the Rules of Procedure you've advertised. Just one more sentence... Articles 225 and 226. The year 2009 is an election year in the EU. By the ninth month, there is no work of state institutions in the EU, technical governments, technical authorities, before 9, 10 or even 11 months next year, only then can we expect. That's the truth. Everything else must be a lie, and we'll see for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4742	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Avramovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4743	Members of 225 and 226, but it is related to this amendment, I must ask the Minister's question. Since Mr. Momir Markovic noted in his amendment that foreigners who do not meet the conditions of this member of the ministry can grant entry to the Republic of Serbia if this is required by humanitarian, health-sanitary reasons or national interests, I only wanted to ask the minister one question. There is a situation that has been widely known in both the world and Serbia, which is the occurrence of a bird flu virus. A Russian NGO has now appeared to help Serbia by bringing in certain medicines to help contain the bird flu. Thank God, that hasn't spread, but the first situation related to these are health-sanitary reasons. Secondly, it is a national interest to protect the nation from all kinds of diseases and the third is humanitarian. Now I ask the question of the Minister -- when they refused this amendment did they have in mind, say, if the Russian NGO meets all the conditions except one, if they are not provided with maintenance during their stay in the Republic of Serbia, the question is, what if that person does not want to stay at all, but only to enter, and fulfil all other provisions of this member, to enter, bring humanitarian aid that is of national interest to us and to come out? That question was never explained here. Second of all, is the orderly way of keeping him and the time period for that? It's logical, if someone came and isn't in transition, they'll come back, but it's not defined here. I apologize for using the Rules of Procedure to ask this question, but national interest is a priority, especially if it is linked to health-sanitary reasons. I've only cited one example that connects all three areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4744	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4745	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed Article 14 states: "The visa is issued by the diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Serbia, if this law is not different. "I suggested that this text be replaced by the words: "The visa issued by the law by the established state body. "I think this provision is clearer, that it is legal, logical and linguistically correct. The issue of entering and staying in Serbia is not the existence and lack of legal regulation, and so far we have had laws that regulated the area, but in whether the legislation is respected, whether the laws are implemented. Practice shows that so far this has not been the case, that the crucial word on the country's stay, especially on their functioning in the country, is not the competent authorities, police, border services, but the ruling political parties. Speaking of foreigners, let me be clear, I don't mean here ordinary people, tourists or workers from other countries coming to Serbia, but those foreigners coming to Serbia that are economic, media and ultimately military penance. Thanks to this practice, Serbia has, for many years, become practically one of the resorts of foreign intelligence services in which foreigners do what they want. Thanks to this, we are considering this bill in a situation that is so specific that we do not know which territory and which way this law will apply. One part of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija is occupied by the US and NATO Pact and we have no control over that territory, we have no control over who enters the country, who stays in it and what it does. In Kosovo and Metohija, some estimates say, there are between two and three hundred thousand foreigners, mostly Albanians, citizens of Albania and Macedonia, over whom we also have no control. Since several months ago, several hundred and perhaps several thousand have been in Kosovo's territory, members of the Eulex mission, which is opposed to international and domestic law in Kosovo. Instead of making that mission impossible at all costs, it means that we are fighting for her exile from the country, I get the impression that the state authorities are verbally condemning her presence, and that they are secretly working to enforce its legalization. That is what the statements we hear in the last few days from the EU and the mission say are under way, that final talks are under way with Boris Tadic, who is due to carry out the legalisation of the mission. However, even if we control the border with Albania, to control the border with Macedonia, we do not have the mechanisms to resist the riding of foreigners on our territory. I'll give you an example of America, which prevents the mass entry of immigrants from raising walls and using the army. We can't do either, and even if we could, it wouldn't be appropriate to build walls, but even if we tried, we can't because we don't have the money. As far as the army is concerned, we don't even have an army. Before taking up office in the chair of Serbian President Boris Tadic, to put it this way, he stopped by the Ministry of Defence and practically demonized the Army of Yugoslavia, or the Army of Serbia. We also have a situation in certain ministries, such as the Ministry of Defence, that foreigners from Western countries, who advise us on how to complete the decommissioning of the Serbian Army, how to do the same with the police and how to destroy the education system, what is left of it. Thanks to their efforts and the results of their work, we have demonstrations that have been going on in Belgrade for several days. The fact of the matter is that strangers are controlling us, controlling us more and more, and security services. At the moment, foreigners in Serbia are taking part in our police efforts to arrest two Serbian citizens, Goran Hadzic and Ratko Mladic. I must say, during the war, I was in a position to meet with Ratko Mladic several times, to talk to him for a long time. At his place, I noticed a trait... Here, Mr. Todorovic says he's had coffee with him recently, and I'm afraid I haven't been in that situation, and I'd be honored. For all of us Serbs west of Drina, and I also noticed this quality with Ratko Mladic, there are several sanctities, these are: Serbia, Belgrade, SPC, "Politika" and, most of all, "Red Star". I noticed that relationship at Ratko Mladic's. It's amazing how much love he talked about Serbia. Now he's in a position to be chased around the same Serbia by foreigners to arrest him and take him to The Hague. I remind you of a 1914 situation: following the assassination of Franc Ferdinand in Sarajevo, Austria has set up an ultimatum for Serbia to allow its territory to investigate whether there is a link between the Kingdom of Serbia, authorities in Belgrade, "Black Hands" and members of "Young Bosnia" and Gabriel Principe. The finalum was more than clear - if you do not accept, there is an attack on Serbia. King Petar was aware of what kind of enemy he had against him, he was aware of all the consequences Serbia would suffer, however, he rejected the ultimatum, did not allow, it seems to me, to me that there were three inspectors of the Austrian police, so he did not allow them to come to Serbia's territory. We have in Serbia today, according to the president of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, Rasim Ljajic, a recognition that members of foreign services are helping to arrest Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic, who are Serbian citizens. We have another humiliating situation, that our investigation into the murder of the guards, means members of the military's most exclusive unit, or what's left of the army, is being conducted by foreigners, members of the Federal Bureau of Investigation from America. Over the past few months, we have been witnessing that foreign ambassadors in Belgrade are free to organise consultations of political party heads regarding forming a ruling coalition, not only in Belgrade, but also at a lower level. In the organisation of domestic NGOs, which mainly means, and which are most active, are the agents of these foreign intelligence services, representatives of the same agents, or NGOs, a little bit, practically once a week, come to Serbia, hold various stands and lectures. You know what the basic message of those stands is? The main message of these stands is that we are a bad, criminal, genocide people, that Serbia should be punished for various real and imaginary crimes and that the Republic of Serbia should be abolished. Of course, after all these stands, they get maximum media space, they are invited to visit on TV, interviews are published with them in newspapers. I'm going to give you two concrete examples now, two absurd situations, two parallels that show what the law can do, whether it exists or not, whether it's interpreted or not, because you know, every law... Here, now Buha has mentioned that there are 65,000 regulations that we need to comply with EU regulations; imagine how these 65,000 laws, with 650,000 other members, can be interpreted – as anyone will. I have a neighbor, and my further uncle, Milos Maric, is 98 years old (I hope I will be forever on it); if he were to visit his daughter, Milica Knezic, in Pancevo, he would not be able to enter Serbia. Do you know why? He took out Republika Srpska's ID card. Man knows his life is about to end and he won't take out this new ID card. Without that new ID, he can only enter Serbia through corn. We have another situation. The man is alive and well, but he can't come to Serbia, practically, under the existing laws, they won't give him a ID card. [[Dropping out of place.]] He wants to die with Republika Srpska's ID card because, unlike a visiting colleague, he has respect for 20,000 Serbian young men who died fighting for Republika Srpska, for 36,000 who were wounded fighting for the Republika Srpska, among them over a thousand Serbian boys. So they gave their lives to restore their statehood west of Drina and he respects it, unlike you. However, we have another situation: unlike him, at any point in time in Serbia, a NATO military column of the pact from Bosnia and Herzegovina can enter at the time of passing for Kosovo, and a number of crimes may be committed along the way. They can run cars on the highway, they can shoot in the neighborhoods by the highway, kill people, they won't answer. The deal that Boris Tadic signed with the NATO Pact, this regime, Vuk Draskovic, has been amnested by any criminal and other responsibilities, means they can literally do whatever they want. I'll finish... I'm so glad my fellow journalist, Minister Ivica Dacic, is here. I will end up with an example concerning former Serbian President and the president of the SPS, the late Slobodan Milosevic. On Vidovdan 2001, given the circumstances, I found myself at the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. The border police, to put it this way, made it impossible for us to enter Serbia for more than half an hour because an old woman, a Serbian woman from Zenica, was about 70 years old, who had a socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina ID card, so she didn't have some new valid ID card, I don't know what they were looking for. In the personal map, which was well preserved, was a photograph that clearly showed that this woman was involved, so it was clear that her identity could be determined. Only when all of us on the bus were solidarity with the woman and said we wouldn't go any further if she didn't come with us, then they made a pass, as they say, and let the woman into Serbia. On that same day, in downtown Belgrade, as we learn from various memoirs, foreigners, members of the English intelligence service, in co-operation with officials, with police officers, with the blessing of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, were arrested by a three-way, double president of Serbia and the president of Yugoslavia, who was elected by the people in the elections not by two-thirds but by a three-quarter majority for the president of the state. You know what an absurd situation you have: you don't give a woman, a Serbian woman from Zenica, to come, to visit her daughter, to come to the queen of Serbia. It's a holiday for her. Maybe the only one, the last time she goes to see her daughter, she can't get into Serbia. And a stranger, not one or more of them, members of intelligence can enter Serbia and arrest her president to take him abroad and kill him there as the last poor man. I mean, it's not about how many laws there are, whether there are 65,000 or if there are 65. There are enough laws in Serbia for us to be a happy society, however, the problem is that there are no smart and responsible politicians responsible for this country, according to this nation, who would be responsible for implementing those laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-18-0.u4746	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. ) Under the agreement we have made, and based on a constructive proposal made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Honorary Minister Ivica Dacic, whom I thank for his presence and participation, we continue our work on Monday, October 20 at 10 pm. I thank all who participated today in the debate and were constructive, we continue co-operation and work, and Dusan Bajatovic in particular, because of the tone that was quite appropriate to the atmosphere. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 125 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present at this point, i.e. that more than 1/3 of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended by Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry Aleksandar Veljkovic, Head of the Interior Ministry and Nenad Banovic, Head of the Interior Ministry. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? First, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Marash, and then you'll get the amendment.
