ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1521	Madam Chairman, you've been obliged to give me a word for hurting the Rules of Procedure the moment I asked for it, not when you think you should finish your job, and then give me a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. It's about Articles 104, 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Yesterday we had the opportunity to hear young Minister Vuk Jeremic, the foreign minister, who made a statement about state television and saw himself, when he made that statement, that he was extremely uncomfortable because he had to obey his boss Boris Tadic's order, which was very simple and simple. All requirements of those states that have recognised Kosovo's independence should be met, which implies that Kosovo's independence is certainly recognised by the state of Serbia, so that the state of Serbia can move on so as not to be in self-insistence, as Daniel Fried said, because no matter what political consolidation in Serbia's power makes those parties that the United States wanted continue to threaten Serbia's isolation, or threaten to seek self-insulation. Think about how that's possible. Yesterday, an action was announced to return ambassadors who were withdrawn to consultations in certain countries that recognised KIM's independence, these are EU countries, as an act of goodwill. A gesture of goodwill towards 20 EU member states, which have not shown good will towards Serbia, have already decided to recognise KIM's independence. Do you follow statements by the German State Secretary, a man who told us two days ago that there is no membership of Serbia into the EU unless Serbia recognises Kosovo's independence. This should all be connected in one bag, put in one bag all those statements, as well as acts taken by Boris Tadic, harassing his foreign minister, Vuk Jeremic, to say something that the unfortunate person probably doesn't think himself. It has been announced that the UN General Assembly will discuss our resolution, after which we would figure out whether to press charges against those states that have recognised Kosovo's independence. It's an incredible inversion of things. It's the only measure we agreed on from the Action Plan, it's the temporary withdrawal of the ambassadors, obviously here falling into the water and collapse. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian citizens must know that we are halfway to Serbia's capitulation, one step to recognising KIM's independence. It was clearly announced by these measures, a statement by Vuk Jeremic, which we heard yesterday, who would not have remembered himself if he hadn't been ordered by Boris Tadic, who was ordered by German and Daniel Fried of Washington. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good one.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1522	Let me first inform you that I have scheduled two meetings of the Constitutional Committee, the first session of the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for 21 July 2008, starting at 11.30 p.m., in the Blue Salon, and the first session of the Committee on Health and Family of the National Assembly today, 21 July 2008, starting at 12:00 p.m., in the third floor hall. I would like to remind you, pursuant to Article 94, that, in agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on proposals for the agenda of items 1 and 2, and before the opening of a joint single search. The Rules of Procedure, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the Parliamentary group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 groups plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 20 seconds; the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the NS Group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds; the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to file a statement, with a number of MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, two other MPs have come forward, Mr Palalic, please, and Mr Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1523	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 226, which defines the right of the MP to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters under the rights and duties of these officials, which I need to carry out the function of the MP. Namely, I am asking for a notice from Minister Vuk Jeremic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, as Mr Jeremic announced yesterday that the Republic of Serbia will return ambassadors to EU member states to those countries that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's anti-legal independence. The fundamental question is, what circumstances have changed since the act of recognising the false state of Kosovo by those countries and the government's decision to withdraw ambassadors from those countries to this day. We didn't get any convincing explanations yesterday. The only explanation is what we heard in the exhibition of current Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, which is a change in the policy of the new government of the Republic of Serbia towards Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are no longer the first priority of the new government, based on the proposed resolution, it is clearly seen that they are going into the legalisation of Eulex in a soft approach to the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. agreeing with the EU-US policy, and it is obvious that the new Government of the Republic of Serbia fully accepts access to the resolution of Kosovo and the Metohija that these countries and these organisations have promoted in the previous period. We want to know and call on Minister Vuk Jeremic to inform the MPs, and also to come to the National Assembly, because this is an important event and an important message, to explain to the MPs why such a decision is being made at this time and to be restored to the highest level of diplomatic relations with countries that do not recognise the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. We simply as a state again try to give up our right to territorial integrity in every way possible and give up our right to fight for Kosovo and Metohija. All possible measures that would involve in that struggle, we simply disown them, even this act that was: draws the ambassador. It is now clear to the citizens of Serbia why the DSS has decided to break up the coalition and the previous government, it simply does not want to form it with parties that have made such a decision anymore. I call on Vuk Jeremic to deliver this response as soon as possible and to come to the National Assembly to open a serious debate on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1524	The word is Mr. Zeljko Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1525	Dear Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, the honourable MPs, what happened yesterday is an eclectic example of the discontinuity of state policy, so that one item on the agenda of this session that we should begin absolutely becomes meaningless. Discontinuity is just marked on the return of ambassadors from countries that have recognised a false state of Kosovo. We expected a gradual capitulation from you, which is why we broke the ruling coalition from last term. However, we did not expect you to become what we suspected you to be so quickly, which is that you are a servant, that you are a kind of servant of those who speak, Sarkozy, Rupel, Erler, all said that Serbia must recognise Kosovo in order to join the EU, openly. Now we're just looking for mechanisms to meet them. It is unfortunate that some Monktons and some Najbori do not have to interfere in Serbia anymore, now the ambassadors of these countries open to us both in the centre of Končarov and in the government of the Republic of Serbia tell us what to do. It is clear that you are conducting this discontinuity and can no longer talk about the continuity of state policy. You can't when you mention Ahtisaari's plan in this document, and none other, which is never recognized anywhere, which is not valid, and you don't give any words about Eulex, none of them exist. It is clear what your intentions are and what it seems, the service and your service will come upon, I am sure of it, to condemn the people of Serbia. I expect, as well as my former colleagues, Mr Vuk Jeremic to come here, and perhaps his employer Boris Tadic, to explain what they really wanted to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1526	The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1527	Dear Madam President, dear Mr Djelic, who you welcome me along the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting to the advertising Rules of Procedure, Rule 226, because I need a notice that is very important for my work, not just for me, as a MP of the people, but for all the MPs in this assembly, but for the Gods and the citizens of Serbia. I am reporting because in the media I heard Mr. Jeremic's foreign minister announcing a partial change in the Action Plan concerning the Foreign Ministry. He said in the statement that the measures the ministry had taken had produced good results, so it is completely unclear to me, which is why it now says that they should change. What different circumstances have changed and what has changed so much that it is now important that the action plan be changed, according to the minister, who, of course, does not speak out of his head but fulfils the party's commitment by the president of the state, who is a little prime minister, a little party president, a little president of the state. It is obvious to him, too, that what it is and what circumstances have changed when many EU countries have just recognised Kosovo, and we are now going to meet them and show good faith, such as, well, we will now be willing to change things. We also warned during Prime Minister Cvetkovic's exposure that the government obviously wants to create discontinuity over the policy led by the previous government. It was quite clear that this discontinuity would first be seen on the Kosovo and Metohija issue. What is most important is that this government, or the president of the state of Kosovo, is not at all interested in preserving it, nor is it interested in how the previous government dealt with it. It is obvious that now that you look at the government policy, or Tadic's policy towards Kosovo, you have the impression that it is the same policy that leads the EU towards Kosovo and that it is not at all the government of Serbia. So, Kosovo was absolutely thrown aside, it was given to the management of Ban Ki Moon, which apparently self-initiatedly makes decisions to bring Eulex, so it will move him as it pleases and as it comes to mind, without the Security Council's decisions, which he says is unable to make such a decision. So, the Serbian government has signed the capitulation without eyes. She let Kosovo down the water. This is what we saw in your resolution, or the motion for a decision. Kosovo, gentlemen, is not interested in you at all. So discontinuity is a very clear story. What's interesting is that during the campaign, there were no appearances of your officials who did not say that DSS and NS policy led to self-insulation. You have based your campaign on this, although it is fully evident what Vojislav Kostunica and his two governments did at the EU's approach. I'll talk about it with such a big heart later. (President: Time. ) It is clear that self-insulation will come because you have tried to get EU and your friends who have sold Kosovo with this kind of service policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1528	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1529	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226. Rules of Procedure. The statement by the minister of foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vuk Jeremic, raises serious concerns in our country. So, in his statement, we're talking about a revision of the Action Plan. What's an audit of the Action Plan? The revision of the Action Plan represents essentially the discontinuity of state policymaking. The revision of the Action Plan says that Serbia signed the capitulation very quickly. It's very interesting that the U.S. Secretary of State, Mr. Daniel Fried, is talking about self-insulation again. Whose words are those? Those are DS words and their election campaigns. At first, when this government was formed, we said that this government was weak, that this government had no authority, that this government, practically, had no Prime Minister, although there was a name. The government has only one man who determines politics, which determines life in Serbia. It is the president of Serbia, so it is a man who is cheerful and dressed in Serbia, who determines everything, and this man is sitting across from us, that man is the president of the Republic of Serbia and the name of this man is Boris Tadic. So that's the essence of this story and it's very clear to the people of Serbia today. That's why it's time for this government, before it starts working, given the kind of policy it's leading, to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1530	Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1531	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. I'm also joining my colleagues from the DSS. We demand that Minister Jeremic or, better yet, Mr Boris Broz come to the Assembly and explain to his MPs what has changed and why has it given up implementing the Action Plan? So, there's no saying here that this government, which is on its only misery, is going to continue some sort of continuity. So that resolution that you transferred from the first place of the agenda to the last one, should actually be said: the resolution of the discontinuity. I'm going to quote to you one of our colleagues, a famous aphorist, who recently published a new book of aphorism, and the book is called "the naked truth." I quote, "That's a good job. They sold Serbia without any advertising." This aphorism, in fact, sums up the situation that Serbia is in today. I remind the ZEZ coalition that in the election campaign, it spoke and used the password: "Kosovo and the EU". I suggest we go to early parliamentary elections, where you will honestly tell the citizens what your intentions are and what you are planning, and the new parliament should read to you: "Neither Kosovo nor the EU". Kosovo is obviously giving up, and the EU has not opened the door at all. It even shuts them down because the condition arises that regional co-operation is what is called the recognition of the fake state of Kosovo, so that you, in fact, by your policy and by doing the last few months, have brought Serbia into a dead end, into a blind street from which your mentors from the European Union tell you to recognise independent Kosovo. So let's go back to the election, and you don't use the false in those elections. Tell the citizens "Neither Kosovo nor the European Union". The EU will be when Kosovo is no longer within Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1532	Mr. Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1533	Dear People's MPs, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure and I would like to say this: it is absolutely important, it is necessary that someone explain to this assembly the government's moves for the last two or three days. What has been announced is not naive. It's very important for this country, for its territorial integrity and sovereignty, for its dignity as a state. Let me remind you, two things have been announced. The first thing announced is the withdrawal of the decision to withdraw ambassadors, so the return of ambassadors to EU countries that have recognised Kosovo. The second announced issue is negotiations with Special Representative Canier on the change of the international mission in Kosovo and Metohija. Both things are of fate to this country and I find it completely incomprehensible, firstly, that the government announces it as a normal and regular thing and secondly, that such a thing here is accepted in such a demeaning way. So these MPs must at least because of Serbia's public opinion say what they think about the matter. At the very least, it is necessary to inform the public and the National Assembly of what is going on. In fact, both things are extremely dangerous. First, the withdrawal of the ambassador and their return is a sign of unseriousness. It has nothing to do with European integration, it has to do with the ultimatums being set up by the Western countries of Serbia. State Secretary Elrer said well - Serbia must be constructive in creating a stabilisation of the Balkans, it must establish good neighbourly relations. It has been repeated many times as a refund since that letter by Rupel and Kushner on March 29th on the hill near Kranj. So that's the condition of Serbia. Of course, it is thought of Kosovo and Metohija because Serbia has no bad or disturbed relations with any neighbouring country in the region. So they make it very clear, this ultimatum, to be gradually, slowly, all by saying that Kosovo and Metohija will not be recognised, however Kosovo and Metohija defacto recognise themselves as an independent state. The other thing is the announcement of negotiations. You see, it's a very misleading formula, and no one's asking Serbia anything, and there won't be any negotiations, so be sure. Ban Ki Moon made a decision. He made a decision because Russia gave in on purpose, very clearly, to defend Serbia because Serbia changed its policy towards Kosovo and Metohija. So encouraged by this, Ban made his decision that he had no right to make, to install the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija. Now Jeremic goes there and deceives the public that he will talk to Canier about something, or negotiate more. It is a decision made, a done deal, Serbia will agree to that unless there is some activity by state authorities against it. I don't believe in the government because they didn't just do it, they tried to hide it from the public, so we're looking for a public discussion here, but at least the Assembly has to stand up to it. It is not about whether and in any way either party or Parliament club is running its policy of European integration, it is about that this capitulation must not be done first and secondly that it must not be done as it normally does, which is behind the eyes of the public, in secret, with statements as if it were the most normal things. Guys, it's a simple capitulation, it's got to get in the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-21-0.u1534	I'd like to inform you that the authorised representatives... Gentlemen, regarding the issues you have raised, using the form of advertising of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that we will deliver complete stenograms to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that we will ask them for an answer. I'll interrupt the session in two weeks. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the meeting is attended by 216 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 124 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that I am, on the basis of Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, called for this session to be attended by: Milica Delevic, Assistant Foreign Minister Ksenija Milivojevic, Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration Tanja Miscevic, Director of the Office for European Integration and Vladimir Medjak, legal adviser at the Office for European Integration. You have received the resignations of Željko Vasiljevic and Milos Simonovic as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a notice by the authorised person Dragan Todorovic of the death of MP Dragan Tasic and the Report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of the resignations, which has determined that the resignations, i.e. because of the death of the People's MP, have led to the case referred to in Article 88, paragraph 1. 2) and 8) The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, which suggests that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of these Members of Parliament. According to Article 88(1), point 1 is replaced by the following: 2) and 8) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended, before the election of MPs, Zeljko Vasiljevic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia – the United Pensioners of Serbia Party – Unity Serbia, Milos Simonovic, elected from the Election List for European Serbia – Boris Tadic and Dragan Tasic, elected from the Election List Serbian Radical Party – Dr Vojislav Seselj. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. We move to the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON CONSERVATION OF THE Stabilisation AND ASSOCIATION AGREEMENTS AND THE TRANSITION OF TRADE AND TRADE PROGRAMMES BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (Common Single Search) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
