ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be nice for all the MPs of the ruling majority to say to the media yesterday that they went out for a pay phone and all that here to the MPs of the SRS and other opposition MPs who tried to establish some facts yesterday and that once we go and start putting things in the right place, that all those who at one point have the opportunity, because they are in power, that it is abuse, that they will realize that the time will come to have to account for it. And, in this way, we begin to create a state in which the rule of law will be, above all, respect for the Constitution and all the laws that have passed under that Constitution. Yesterday we tried, and I think that the vast majority of you realized that there were events that not only upset the MPs and representatives of a political party, but they upset all citizens in Serbia, and that should finally get in the way. We're reasonable people. It is our desire to help this country move forward, to contribute as much as possible, as an opposition party, to put those objections which we think will fix all the proposals you put before this House, or before these MPs. Our desire is to really determine the truth, not obstruction for obstruction, but to realize that you once have to go out with facts. I told you that the beginning, the way you started it, did not promise and does not promise that you really honestly think that in front of the MPs and the citizens of Serbia you bring all the facts. Yesterday's statement, before the end of the session, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic will inform the Assembly by the end of the week of all facts related to the events at the SRS rally, the injury of MPs, the murder of Ranko Panic, is sort of the beginning of the road we should be taking. We'll give you that chance. But don't forget, it's not a blank trust. We'll follow if you really mean it, if you really want to do it. I don't mean you here, but I mean the ones you represent, the ones that rule. To make sure that yesterday we only presented facts that are undeniable, I will, Mrs. Kolundjia, give you the DVD on which the material was recorded, not our material, but the material to the greatest extent TV B92 and Studio B, which you will be able to see for yourself all the things we told you yesterday. You'll be able to see police who don't touch those who have phantoms on their heads, but that's why they beat people from 60 to 70 years in the entrances where they stand, who don't run, have no reason to run. You'll see people who are on the ground, who the police are undeniably kicking, and these are the things we have to stop. The best way to do that is by law. Anyone who breaks the law, no matter what side he's on, should answer. We can no longer hide those who have done something on our behalf. One thing to be clear: don't run these services. All these services are already in the hands of those who use them. When the time comes, they'll dump you, just like they did before. You'll get into a situation where you'll be responsible for everything they do without having the opportunity to fix it. Do it now that you can! Remember, we are waiting for answers regarding the facts and circumstances surrounding the arrest of Radovan Karadzic. Don't hide. Do not let all three of the services on one paper submit a memo to the Committee saying that everything that has been done about Radovan Karadzic, based on the law, and that information, as it has been done, is placed in the envelope without any indication that it is confidential and anything else. There's nothing on the envelope. It is the best evidence in which they also humiliate this assembly and MPs of the Assembly, and show their intention to hide some facts from both the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian citizens. It's your responsibility. We're going to get to that fact, and it's up to you whether we succeed or not. Don't call any more opposition parties, call the SRS, obstruct Parliament's work. We're not obstructing! We want respect for the Constitution and the law. We want order in this country. We want this country to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1675	Thank you. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on proposals for the agenda for points 1 and 2 and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: SRS – one hour, 33 seconds, 36 seconds; MEP Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes, 36 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus – 28 minutes, 48 seconds; SPS-JS – 18 minutes; LDP – 15 minutes, 36 seconds; New Serbia – 10 minutes, 48 seconds; Parliamentary minority group – 8 minutes, 24 seconds and PUPS – 6 minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not already done so, they shall file a statement with a number of MPs. According to Article 140(2) and Article 149a(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs between the European Community, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part. Do the proposing representatives, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Science and Technology Development and Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management want a word? Mr. Djelic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1676	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, rarely when in Serbia's history so many words and arguments have been exchanged over a trade agreement. If we look at what we are considering today in this united debate, we still see that there is more to this agreement with Europe than trade. He defines our strategic direction. Europe is not everything, but today Serbia has a great chance of strengthening its own state and its own economy through the rapid approach of the EU. Serbia will find space in this framework to show both the strength and knowledge of all its citizens and, after so many difficult years, to provide a base that years and decades to come are the years and decades of the greatest development, not only of our economies, but of what has been a feature for centuries of our country, which is spirituality, the ability to participate in the work and life of this great family of nations on the European continent, in the words, to show everything Serbia can. Today, by considering these proposals, we have to decide whether we want to give all our citizens a chance. In these contractual relations, Serbia enters an equal relationship with the EU for the first time. I want to say right away that during the election campaign, which has taken place in the last few months, we have had several choices, the central point was the debate over these laws, i.e. about these agreements. The key issue raised to dispute and challenge the adoption of these laws was whether, by signing or ratifying this agreement, our country in any way has denied fighting for its Kosovo. The answer is no. I want, since a lot has been discussed, to quote the only place in this agreement where Kosovo and Metohija are mentioned, and that is Article 135. To read it, so that all citizens who are watching us see what it is and what it is about: "This Agreement is applied, on the one hand, to the territories to which the Treaties establishing the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community are applied and in accordance with the conditions laid down in these Treaties and in Serbia's territory, on the other hand. This Agreement shall not apply to Kosovo currently under international administration in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June1999. A year. This does not prejudice the current status of Kosovo or determine its final position towards the same resolution. “ And here we can see very clearly that these imaginary so - called so - called so - called images. legal structures during the pre-election campaign, which is to show up, in any way, so that Serbia that approaches these agreements allegedly gives up its Kosovo, does not stand. This agreement is status neutral. But, on the other hand, given that the status of our southern province is mentioned exclusively in the context of Resolution 1244, which, as we well know, is the cornerstone of our state policy to preserve our territorial integrity, signing, i.e. ratification, this agreement, by all EU member states, including those who, unfortunately, went in the wrong, illegal, direction of recognition so-called. Kosovo is a positive element in the fight for our territorial integrity and for our state policy around KIM. Immediately very simple and clear to say, one of the next points of this session and the proposed text of the Resolution on the continuity of the state policy on KIM confirms and we have so-called. an interpretative clause that has made it very clear and unequivocally clear to our European partners and everyone in the world who monitors this situation, that Serbia will never recognise Kosovo and Serbia's independence will never trade in KIM. In Serbia, it is very often manipulated by the public, it is said, this is some form of trap, if we get into this, here we are in some hellish machine that will ultimately lead to naive Serbs not knowing what they are doing and admitting Kosovo's independence themselves, and that is simply not true. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the last resolution about KIM, at the end of December of last year, and the debate that was then led, has very clearly shown that this formulation, which is the same formulation for CEF, for the Energy Agreement and the Energy Community of Southeast Europe, signed during the government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica, is in no way jeopardising our position, nor is our fight for territorial integrity. No one on the EU's side has ever made any condition for Serbia to give up our territorial integrity in any way for faster European integration. I want to say very clearly here today that Serbia and through this ratification, and I hope unanimous adoption and the upcoming agenda points around KIM are unequivocally saying that if anyone tries to blackmail us around Kosovo will never succeed, Serbia will never give up its southern province and we will never accept being introduced into any choice between Europe and Kosovo. If anyone ever tries to get us into that choice, we will choose our territorial integrity. Those things are very clear. I would now like to turn to what is almost the whole text of this agreement, which represents six years of contractual relations, which will cover that period from the moment of ratification and the application of this agreement until our country enters the EU. This agreement is an agreement with the EU, which already represents 55% of our foreign trade. When we include those countries that are part of the CEFTA regional agreement, which are all or already candidates or will become EU candidates very soon, we have an agreement here with what three-quarters of our foreign trade will be. If we look at the investment situation at the same time, three-quarters of the investment comes into our country from that zone. By doing so, our country signs, i.e. By ratifying now, by a vast majority, and I would hope for an acclaim, in this House these laws will be able to have stable relations with what will be our key partner in the years to come. This is not only a key partner for us, but also a key partner as we can see at very difficult times between the EU and the Russian Federation over the past few weeks. Neither the EU nor the Russian Federation has denied the future of strategic relations between the EU, on the one hand, and the Russian Federation, on the other. As we can see in these very difficult moments, it is also very careful in these relations that what has been a strategic partnership between the EU and the Russian Federation for ten years will also be provided in the years to come. For Serbia, which has had so-called so-called Serbia since 2000. Autonomous trade measures allocated unilaterally by the EU, this is a way to introduce a much higher level of legal and economic security for all domestic and foreign investors who want to operate in our country. There is no surprise, any investor, domestic or foreign, asks first – how long did you get with Europe, do you have a Stabilisation Agreement, when will you join the EU? They don't ask that because they love us or because they hate us, but because they want to invest capital in a country that knows where it's going and that has organized and stable relations with its key, commercial, economic, and I would say, political partner. Of course, some have spoken during the election campaign -- come on, let's stop now, we have these unilateral measures anyway, so it'll take a while. Dear People's MPs, it is true that we have these measures, but at the same time what has been unilaterally given can be unilaterally abolished, and we saw this about sugar issues a few years ago. I can say that the ratification of this agreement will allow us to have a stable rate every year and in a way that cannot be threatened overnight by one quota of 180 thousand tonnes of sugar exports, without quotas and without customs duties, that is, a quota that is insufficient, but in 18 to 24 months we will be able to negotiate a significantly higher quota. Eight thousand and seven hundred tons of June exports, so-called. Baby buffets, big chances for our cattle farming, where the cattle stock is very advanced in quality, but if we look at the quantities, not sufficiently improved in recent years. It is not true that after the signing of this agreement, Serbia, which last August when we closed these negotiations, had only one slaughterhouse that had a European standard for exports, a smooth export to the EU of June, today we have five slaughterhouses and two local industries that are qualified and that can very soon after the ratification of this agreement to export much more meat to this large market of 500 million consumers. Last year our agriculture, i.e. Our livestock industry, unfortunately, has used only 25% of this quota. Already today, after the ratification of this agreement, we can export four times as much June to the European market, and this will also be a guarantee for investment for our livestock production, for our agriculture, and also for the possibility of increasing this quota very quickly. At the same time, for the first time in the history of our contractual relations with the EU, there is a quota for exporting 63,000 hectolitres of wine and those who are in that branch of our agriculture very clearly say that this agreement for them is an absolute condition for them to continue with investments and that quality Serbian wine is found everywhere in Europe very often I had a question by our citizens, our businessmen – did we, by negotiating this agreement, well protect our economy, especially our agriculture? Dear Members of the People, I would like to present to you today a few facts on this very important issue. Of course, the key to these negotiations was agriculture, agriculture that also has specific treatment in the EU, and it must also have special attention from our government, our Assembly, and also in negotiations like those that we have concluded. Firstly, I would like to say that if Serbia were to compare what we negotiated with what was done by one Croatia, we had negotiated three lists of agricultural products and three rhythms of trade liberalisation with the EU for three, five and six years, while Croatia had only two lists in three and six years. In the first list are those products that we don't produce or those that aren't our most important and that our economy doesn't depend on. All important products, agricultural products for our country are protected for a period of five to six years. I also want to tell you that in these agreements and in all annexes you can see very clearly the rhythm of trade liberalisation. We also negotiated retaining protection for 23.5% of our agricultural products and after the expiry of this transitional period of six years. For Croatia and other countries, this was below 20%, and it is particularly important to say that we have also maintained protection for key agricultural products such as milk, cheese, corn, flour and pigs. And to be even more precise, if we look at the degree of protection for some of these products after this transitional period of six years, the example works, for milk, Serbia retains 45% of the existing protection and after a transitional period, while Croatia managed to keep 20% in negotiations. For corn, what we have as a level of protection for our corn after six years is 80% of the current level of protection, while Croatia received 50%, and for pigs, it is 65%, and Croatia has preserved 20%. I also want to say that during the negotiations on this agreement the most time has been devoted to agriculture, and as we can see, the EU has recognised that agriculture, which represents about one quarter of our economy, is a strategic branch for our country. On the one hand, with the strong tenacity of our negotiating team, which I led, and on the other hand, the EU's understanding, we have shown that the recovery of the Serbian economy is not possible without the recovery of its agriculture. Of course it's not all bright yet, but last year's $1.6 billion exports made it possible for us to have a surplus for the first time in two years, i.e. to export more than we import from the EU in this domain, and the upcoming projections, not only of the current agriculture minister, but of the previous ones, show that these laws and this trade agreement can count on exports that will exceed six billion dollars a year in four years. That is why we must ratify this agreement, because our agriculture deserves a much better future. Our livestocking deserves a better future and, dear MPs, let's give our farmers a chance to win the Italian market, to win the German market, to win the French and regional markets. So, I expect, because of our farmers, that we all here support the ratification of this key trade agreement. At the same time, I would like to remind you that this agreement concerns industry. There was a lot of debate in our country whether it was good to get close to Europe, because some of our branches that had enviable results like textiles in a big problem and the question was whether they could withstand the edge of the competition that comes with trade liberalisation. Dear People's MPs, of course we can't be satisfied with pay levels, we can't be satisfied with the current level of activity in our textile industry. From the moment of entry into the contractual agreement with the EU, so-called The textile agreement, which unfortunately for our country because of all the troubles it had in the 1990s, came perhaps to, say, the worst moment, when the EU at the same time opened its own market to China, when it abolished quotas for imports of textile products from China to the EU, however, our textiles, domestic, but also those abroad, who found both knowledge and energy and opportunities to invest in us and to export, led to our textile exports, to reopen factories in the textile industry and to export 50% more every year to the EU and to our region. Now, that's Serbia winning. Ratification of this agreement is the best way to send a message to the citizens of Vranja, Leskovci, Ivanjica and all the numerous centres of our textile industry that will be restored through this trade agreement. Therefore, MPs, let's ratify this agreement, let's give our textiles a chance, let's make it possible for people when any investor comes to us to say – come to Serbia, work here hard, capable people and win those markets together! We don't want anything bad to our neighbors. Let us, through ratification of this agreement, give them the same conditions for the match, and not have to explain that Serbia does not know exactly where it wants, that Serbia does not have the same contractual relations with the European Union according to what our neighbours have, especially. At the same time, we also saw in the industry's very domain that any investor when he comes to invest in Serbia, not to win our country's market, our market is attractive but cannot in itself attract the biggest investors, the real reason for entering our market is the possibility of using both the logistics position, the geostrategic position of our country, the talent of our citizens and thus winning together all the markets in the European Union, the region and the former Soviet Union. Because of this, it was by chance that the Fiat decided to invest in Kragujevac, at the moment that Serbia proved to sign the Stabilisation Agreement and, believe me, I am deeply convinced that when we ratify this agreement a few days later, in mid-September, we will also have a big contract for our Kragujevacans with the "Fiita". Let's give Kragujevčana a chance for our automotive industry, for our forest, investors who have come know that Serbia knows very clearly where it is going, those who invested in Batocina, Knic, and the day before in Svilinc in the automotive industry and tomorrow, you will see, in Nis, in the domain of the electronic industry, for components of the automotive industry, that's a chance for our automotive industry, that's a chance for our industry. Let's finally ratify this agreement, give our industry and all our engineers, technicians, a chance to show everything they know and that our country wins. What makes this agreement possible is that after so much defeat, Serbia will be the winning Serbia, which wins European markets and our economy. At the same time, if we consider the question of competition, we have heard arguments that will allow those who will ratify our borders and will not allow our businesses to compete properly both in the same way and in what our country is buying. Of course that's not true. I want to refer you to the text of the Agreement. We see two things here unequivocally. The first is that from the moment of application of this agreement, all our companies have for the first time the treatment of a domestic legal person, in all public procurement procedures throughout the European Union. You know that a little bit. Today some will say, given the state and situation in our economy, especially in the industrial domain, that's an advantage that doesn't mean much. That's just not true. Ask our builders. Ask our energyists how much this means to them. Yes, let's make it possible for our energy and our building to win tenders everywhere in the European Union. That's what they expect from us and the agreement we have here will make it possible for them. As you can see, this agreement provides, on the other hand, a five-year transition period during which we will gradually reduce the advantage we have in our Law on Public Procurement for Domestic Providers, so that we have five years to strengthen and prepare our economy to compete under the same conditions with the economy of the European Union. Of course, if we consider these laws, they are not directly related to one of the key freedoms, which is freedom of movement. However, experience has shown that the European Union has not lifted visas from any country that has not had a similar agreement like this. Since July 7th, our citizens can get biometric passports. We've all seen it, and I've been present on the ground, sometimes even criticised for it, but that's right, I like to be there and there's a problem to solve, but we now have the possibility that through the ratification of this agreement, the adoption, I hope, and after this session, and a number of very important laws that will allow our citizens to be able to travel without a visa to the European Union very quickly. Let's ratify the Agreement and have our citizens travel without visas to Europe for the following year. Let's give that chance to our citizens. What's wrong with that, no matter who they vote for. Dear Members, we saw that the other day, in our country, the President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We have also seen in this agreement that it foresees very significant investments in our infrastructure. Let us not forget that countries like Ireland, Portugal and closer to us, perhaps Greece, Romania, have funded very significant infrastructure ventures from the European budget and from European funds, i.e. European banks. If we look at this agreement as strategic directions, which are confirmed here in a contractual relationship between Serbia and the European Union, we mention Corridor 7, Danube, Corridor 10, but also modernising and renovating the railway and our railway road to Montenegro. At the same time, it is in the great interest of our country to find a strategic partner for our "Yat", and at the same time to enable the ratification of the accompanying i.e. after its strengthening. the related instrument for ratification of the so-called open sky, which will allow our citizens to travel cheaper, that our economy has much more to do with abroad, and say, to be much more in a position to have business, business and private contacts with the whole continent and the whole world. The agreement will benefit not only "Yat", but only Serbia will benefit as a central Danube country, it will benefit not only our country, through which the agreement is confirmed on the European strategic map. We ourselves see that we are here in one big game with our neighbours, that the great road, rail, waterways pass through Serbia. In our history, our position has often been a source of great difficulty, because we've always been at a crossroads. Let's take this position and give our infrastructure a chance through ratification of this agreement, to all those who work in our transport industry, that Serbia finally becomes what is followed by geography and its history, which is the logistics transport centre of all of Southeast Europe. It's a chance for our country, and that's why we have to take advantage of it. I would like to mention that, as you saw last November, our country also signed a framework financial agreement with the European Union worth a billion euros. Since 2000, the European Union has been the largest donor to our country, around 2.5 billion euros. The largest amount of that money went to infrastructure, energy, agriculture and local infrastructure. On average, between 190m and 250m euros in grants, but of course, it's only the beginning. In no way should Serbia approach the European Union for the sake of getting some money. But given that Europe has been building for 50 and a few years not on the principle of love, sympathy, but on well understood mutual interests, it has in the European budget three components that will be possible for our country from the moment of ratification of this agreement, obtaining candidate status, and certification of our financial system, which are three key topics: regional development, development of agriculture and villages, and the development of human capital, i.e. investments in education. I want to say that today's neighbouring Bulgaria, about the same gauge as we, where we have received more than a billion euros in this European cycle for 2007-2013, will receive 7 billion euros as a member of the European Union, plus 5 billion euros for its agriculture. Dear MPs, the ratification of these laws, the next steps towards the EU will provide, within a few years, for our country to make the current 200m euros very quickly multiple with 2 and 3 and for our country to receive support from the European budget at around 2 billion euros per year as a member of the EU. Let's give our country a chance, make sure the richer countries of this continent finance our infrastructure ventures. In the next few years, as we can see, we will have to do this largely from our resources, but such as some countries like Ireland and our neighbours already in the EU, we can use the European budget to finance what is crucial for our country, which is infrastructure, balanced regional development, development of agriculture and the development of our education. Finally, our country must invest significantly more in knowledge in years of age. This year we celebrate 200 years of higher education development in Serbia. In those 200 years, there were several very bright moments. Our country produced some of the world's leading scientists, from Milankovic, Tesla, Pupina. At the end of the 19th century, our country, as one of the first countries in the world, had a department of electrical engineering, but over the past years these investments have fallen significantly, although we have been recovering in recent years and are still far below the necessary investments in education, science and technology. Our country signed last June, and I expect this esteemed home to ratify it very quickly, a framework programme in the domain of science, where our scientists participate on an equal footing in all EU science and technology programmes. I'm very happy to tell you that in what were regional programs, everyone where our scientific institutes competed was included and that in two-thirds were leading. The other day we saw that, despite the great difficulties, our scientists were present, not enough, but it is not a question of talent as to how much a matter of resources and priorities this nation has been able to give this issue over the past 15 years – already present in large experiments such as the one that will take place in Cern. Through the approximation of Europe, we will have not only access to these funds that I have been talking about, but our engineers, scientists, technologists will be fully involved in all European investment programmes. Europe itself is concerned about its own competitiveness, as our country must be concerned, because in a multipolar globalised world, those nations that do not invest in knowledge have no future. So let's ratify these laws, give our scientists a chance, give them a chance to those who are the best minds of our country, and I'm confident, very quickly, some of the brightest minds of this continent. Finally, it is true that the implementation of this transitional agreement is conditioned by rounding co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It is a topic that cannot be easily accepted in our country, especially when in the past few months we have seen the scandalous verdicts of the UN tribunal in the case of Naser Oric or Ramush Haradinaj. These were the black days for international justice and in no way contributes to the fact that in our society this institution and the whole concept of international law are accepted in the right way. However, respect for international law by Serbia is a very strong, strongest ally of our country in defence of international law and on the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, where international law is unequivocal on our part, and we cannot respect international gender law. Either we respect him or we don't respect him. By ratifying this law, through fulfilling our domestic and international obligations, Serbia is identified as a country that respects international law, which respects law and is the best ally in our fair and fair struggle to preserve our territorial integrity. That is why we expect that very soon our European partners will recognise this Serbia, the one that respects the right unequivocally, that they will begin to apply this agreement very soon after ratification in this esteemed home, and that, at the same time, we will strengthen our budgets, give more arguments to those who are our allies, win more allies in what is a crucial battle, a battle for our territorial integrity. Dear People's MPs, in the past few minutes, I have worked very hard to draw closer to the elements that, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all those who in the past few years have negotiated this important agreement which are unequivocally, and I am deeply convinced that all MPs should, too, give a chance to our citizens, our businesses, to all segments of our society to live better. Europe is not the solution to all our problems, but also neighbouring Bulgaria and Romania, including Poland and Slovakia, in the past few years their EU entry has seen a very significant decline in their unemployment rates. Today in Bulgaria and Romania, the unemployment rate is single-digit, debates in these parliaments are now on track to provide enough labour. The fact is that they have largely demographic problems like our country, but also economic activity and economic growth, which was between 6% and 7% in all these countries, leads to these European integrations being our greatest ally in the fight against unemployment. Let's give those who don't have enough hope today, to those who are at work, to those who need to get a job. Unequivocally, experience has shown that entering Europe is the largest ally in the fight against unemployment. Therefore, honourable MPs, respected citizens of our country, this is one of the most important contracts our country has had to sign. There's no romance, there's no illusion. Not everyone has been through the same in these European integrations, but what is certain is that all the nations of our continent, including some that may be beyond the geographical frameworks of this continent, are having a big debate in the EU itself, and they want to enter Europe. Today we have the opportunity to show that in 2008, Serbia sees the 21st century as a century when it will strengthen its own state, when it will fight the injustice that was done in the way it was done in the 19th century and many other centuries. The wise leaders of our country and then when it was hard and with those who did wrong never interrupted dialogue, they knew that self-insulation policy, that boycotting policy never did any good to our country. Our country in these European integrations has the support of both China and the Russian Federation, and India, because that is how we strengthen our position at this new geostrategic moment. Our foreign policy is not one-way, it's multilayered, it's shown in a way, it seems to me, the best way, and that shows the very synthesis of the session of this assembly, which is that the next point will be the ratification of a very important agreement with the Russian Federation. Here is Serbia that wins, Serbia that ratifys the agreement with Europe, Serbia that will be present in one of the largest energy ventures with the Russian Federation and other European nations, Serbia that will be able to conclude large business ventures with all the countries of this world, in a word, one Serbia that finally wins in the 21st century and will have the power to deal with and with the injustice that has been done to us around KIM. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, yes, let's choose the future, let's get into that Europe, let's take advantage of the chances it gives and express our identity and all that is the glory of our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1677	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Zoran Krasic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1678	Mrs. Dejanovic, I think the information would have been complete if you'd said that an hour ago I reported to the Rules of Procedure, not because of these attacks and what remains recognizable in the introduction of the one who needs such a serious law to explain. I came forward because the government's representative on this agenda at the outset was duly enforcing citizens of the Republic of Serbia and MPs in the National Assembly. I think it's an injury from Article 104. Rules of Procedure, and I took advantage of the law of Article 100. Rules of Procedure, let me take your call. What's this about? It is not a matter of some thin sense of style, metaphors and how the government's representative will explain something that is being treated as a serious legal project, but, above all, it is offensive when the Government's representative from this pay phone presents some details, presents some information and informs the public about something contrary to what, I could say, is also generally known to the sparrows on the branch in Serbia, what is happening, what is the relationship and what is the relationship. Then a representative of the government comes out here, talking about a bright future. Just to remind him that about eight years in power, this speech is no different from the one that was on January 25th 2001. Of course, since I'm doing this job seriously, I also had a complete text of what the government's representative prepared for this session. Of course, Boris Tadic told him before he left for Brussels that some things were not read at all, but the government's main argument for the adoption of this agreement is a word that says it guarantees the EU "equal status". How does that guarantee what he's guaranteeing? Further: "Equitable partnership relations. "As far as I know, they break their hands in these talks and negotiations. Now look at the next argument Mr Djelic uses, he says - we signed the SAA in Serbian, Cyrillic and thus entered our national identity into the EU's cultural heritage. Here it is, your document. I've got everything you wrote, everything you've been preparing to talk about. I jump into the government building and get everything you've prepared from your cabinet. I took this, too. You know, he was complaining earlier that he wasn't the vice-president of the government in Croatia, but he's in Serbia. This is how it is interesting in Croatia – it is interesting that a member of the 141st Croatian Constitution prohibits the initiation of a process of association of the Republic of Croatia with other states in which association could lead or could lead to the restoration of the Yugoslav state union, or any Balkan state union in any form... (President: Time. Guys, I know how you breathe, I know what you eat, I know what's on your desk, I know how you think. It's offensive when you talk in a way that's contrary to the general known facts in this society. I ask the President of the National Assembly to end this behavior of parties in power. They're poor here, they're nothing, and then thanks to Gilas, some Mike Rakic, some Rajk Savic, who gets arrested, and, uh, powerful, powerful, away from the public, away from the debate. Let's have a debate. And I ask you to punish the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1679	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Verica Radeta called.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1680	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, since you have not acted as Parliament's president, and you had to, you should have reacted at least within your basic profession, because this man here obviously has serious problems, so I've heard from the association that two ministers... (President: Mrs Radeta, I would like to ask that the content of your speaking and verbalization be consistent with the dignity of the Assembly. ) I would ask you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to follow what the government representatives say here, not to sit there as bewitched and sedated, so you look, and to react when you need to react. Here, the Deputy Prime Minister, just now, in the most harsh way, insulted all the MPs, insulted the intelligence of Serbian citizens, shouted some political paroles here, gave political speeches to the MPs, which absolutely has no right. You have disobeyed the Rules of Procedure, obviously you have not yet taught him, you have injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 103 and Article 113. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If I didn't quote it to you right now, let Mr. Odalovic read it to you. He would be better off dealing with the team than making statements to the media that we, as if he were a MP, are going to make up for something, fix the way we work, etc. So, in this hour, Mr Djelic, as he harassed Serbian citizens here, above all, said an incredible number of nebuloses and untrues. Mr. Djelic, I recommend you enter any Miskovic's maximum discount, so you can see how you will deny yourself and all of this you have said. However, we know that you are buying at Miskovic's line, but look, since you have French citizenship, how much French products cost there, how much Serbian, how much French wine, you've talked about here, how much our wines cost. Mr. Djelic, the only thing good is that you mentioned Ireland in your performance. That's a good example. Citizens of Ireland did not accept the EU Constitution. Mr Djelic, since you are not ashamed to talk about international justice and mention the verdicts of The Hague tribunal Haradinaj and Orić yourself, and you, representatives of the authorities, are involved in kidnapping Serbs and sending them to The Hague, are participating with Serge Brammertz and with French, American and English services in preparing the murder of Vojislav Seselj. Be assured, you only shake hands, so you immediately before the publication of the book of Carla del Ponte, that Djindjic did not send Seselj to The Hague, so now be quiet. You will also be silent when Serž Brammertz publishes his book, so when he says he was persuaded by Tadic, Dinkic, Djelic and the rest of the bullument, they will impose on Seselj the lawyer and kill him in that way. Mr. Djelic, I think you're doing this... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... What you were saying today was the most satisfying, since you talked about agriculture among other things, the man who took down several acres of cabbage, and those milk producers who poured milk on the streets of Serbia. You've done so much for the citizens of Serbia that they'll never forget you and never forgive you, you'll see it soon enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1681	Mr. Milorad Krstin advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. You're giving up? Thank you. Do the rapporteurs of the committees responsible, Mr Laslo Varga, President of the Committee on European Integration and Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs of Donka Banovic, Momir Markovic, Sladjan Mijaljević, Radica Jocic, who delivered an opinion at the meetings of the European Integrations Committee when considering the Bill on Confirmation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, and the Proposal for a Law on Confirming the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, want a word? The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1682	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs and respected ministers, above all, to refer to your incendiary speech. I can't blame myself that much because I know that people sometimes get carried away, so they forget where they are, I think Minister Djelic had that feeling that he might be at the DS rally, but maybe next time you take those flags to the campaign, so when you say it, come on, and then we'll all wave. I am the Vice-President of the Committee on European Integration and I want to explain why I have singled out my opinion and why the DSS considers this high home, i.e. The National Assembly should not ratify this and this Stabilisation and Association Agreement. First of all, I would like to remind you that the DSS has made a major contribution to our EU convergence process. Vojislav Kostunica was at the head of the government in early 2004 when they were made, from then on, the biggest steps towards that approach. A national strategy has been adopted, technical negotiations have been conducted, rounds of negotiations that have brought us closer to the very signing of this agreement. Also, to remind you that this high house has passed over 250 laws in three years. Most of these laws were in line with the EU's legal normative. So it is completely undeniable that the DSS is absolutely committed to Serbia's entry into the EU. But the question arises, what happened to senior DSS officials, with DSS members, with all DSS supporters, that they were from November 17th to April 29th, when this agreement was magically signed in Luxembourg – what happened? Are these DSS people crazy, and suddenly they change their mind? No, the DSS hasn't changed its mind, but the EU has changed its mind and its attitude towards Serbia. Minister Djelic here said the EU is an equal partner of Serbia. I think that, I'm going to use a kind word, not at least, not true, because if you're in normal partnership with someone, as Serbia should be, then that partner of yours doesn't ask you to cut off your hand or give up 15% of your territory, and that's exactly what it's going to be when we ratify this agreement irretrievably lost. Serbia will indirectly recognise Kosovo's independence. I don't know if everyone's aware, I know that citizens don't understand this, because this is a little bit complicated, especially if you have campaigns and talk like we heard today that it's actually a blessing for Serbia and that nothing terrible will happen, but everything will stay the way it is. KIM will remain the southern Serbian province, as it is? It reminds me of one sentence that someone else said that those DS speak as if they were from the DSS, but they work as if they were members of the LDP. This also shows the essence of the conflict and why then the Prime Minister, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, resigned. So you can't co-operate with those who talk like they're from the DSS and they agree on everything, and they do the opposite. When it comes to the Agreement, I draw your attention to Article 135. This article is so widely interpreted, and as soon as we all interpret it in different ways, it means that something is not good. Several times, in fact, constantly, at least, the DSS asks its partners in the EU – how do you see Serbia, see all of Serbia or see Serbia without KIM? We received answers, whoever reads the newspaper gets the answer – as far as we're concerned, Kosovo is a finished story. The EU is working to build an independent Kosovo, 21 members recognised an independent Kosovo. The EU, the entire organisation has sent the Eulex mission. The Eulex mission has one single task, which is to implement the Ahtisaari plan, which is to work to build an independent Kosovo. I also draw attention to many members who say Serbia must have good neighbourly relations with all countries in the region. When you read it and say it, it's the most normal thing. So Serbia should have good neighbourly relations and work on regional stability in the Western Balkans region. However, whether the minister, Mr Djelic, Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic or anyone in this government can say and guarantee that in two or three years Serbia will not be conditioned to recognise an independent Kosovo, as it will thus become a candidate for EU accession or even join the EU. Is there anyone in the Serbian government today who can guarantee it and tell the citizens of Serbia? I know that Mr Djelic has already said it several times, but the fact that you have said it and that you say it or an individual, it is not enough guarantee for either the MPs or the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1683	Just to remind you, the time has come for the Rules of Procedure to explain their opinions for five minutes. I give my word to Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say to you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and to the citizens of Serbia for which I have given my opinion, I must read something that will in the beginning deny at least half of what Minister Djelic said here. "Rajffeisen Bank" 25.8.2008 says -- "Respected, it is likely that you have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the skills that the international financial market faces extremely negative developments, resulting in an increase in interest rates on the international capital market, and thus reflected the rise in money prices when domestic banks are borrowing abroad. Taking into account, on the one hand, the increased funding costs at local level, and on the other, the country's worse rating due to economic and political opportunities, the competent authority "Rajffeisen Banka a.d." decided on 31.7.2008 to increase nominal interest rates for loans, both for new and for those in use." Worse country rating due to economic and political opportunities, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People! Who's been running this country for eight years? Who's been running this country's economy for eight years? Djelic and Dinkic, and now they need to measure who's a bigger thief than the two of them. Of course, there is, with respect, the director of the population product sector, Saša Damnjanović – who brought these banks? Did the SRS MPs ever since Dinkic and Djelic started destroying Serbian banking say what the situation would lead to. We don't have any Serbian banks today. We have these peeling skins, literally, from the back of the Serb people. You can't raise any loans without a mortgage guarantee, so you're going to buy a car, raise a few thousand euros, and that's why you're out of an apartment. Mr Djelic said – in a few days we will sign this with "Fiata". Are you speaking to Mr. Tadic? Do you ever go across the street? Remember what he said the other day, what he said last night. Come on, at least get along, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, don't agree, I understand, Mr. Djelic, that you are no longer allowed in Kragujevac, because the first time you left I remember very well how you had your time. The reason why I singled out my opinion is not this book, which lists all the products that the EU plans to import to us, because what we can export to the EU is that it comes down to several products, raspberries, blackberries and whatnot, very little. Sir, if we export yours, we certainly have nothing to take out. Mr Djelic said we will not give up Kosovo and Metohija, territorial integrity, etc. In this book, Article 135 says: "This Agreement is applied, on the one hand, to the territories to which contracts established by the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community are applied and in accordance with the conditions laid down in these Treaties and in Serbia's territory, on the other hand. This Agreement is not applicable in Kosovo currently under international administration in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999. This does not prejudice the current status of Kosovo or determine its final position towards the same resolution. “ Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the current status of Kosovo has been declared independent by more than 30 countries, at least 19 from the EU. Will you, Mr. Djelic, now force those EU countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence to withdraw that recognition, so that we can come in and sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? Will these lands do what they say, what they accept, now to step on for our entry? If not, it is clear to all that you, Mr Djelic, have officially given up Kosovo and Metohija by this agreement. This is one of the basic reasons why SRS MPs will not vote for this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and please step out for this pay phone when you explain to us and Serbian citizens, to at least lower the ball a little bit and say something that is true and true.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1685	Thank you. Do the representatives, or the presidents of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Excuse me, is there anyone else in particular who thinks he's answering? Do the MPs who set out their views on the Legislative Committee want a word? The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1686	On the Legislative Committee, I have issued an opinion on the grounds that I believe that after the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija and recognition by 21 EU countries and the fake state of Kosovo, the initialed EU agreement is no longer in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this presentation, I would like to remind the members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia who are directly injured after this act: Article 8 which defines that the Republic of Serbia, its territory is unique and indivisible, that the borders of the Republic of Serbia are invulnerable; Article 97 that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to ensure sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and its international position, and in particular Article 194 which says that all confirmed international contracts should not be contrary to the Constitution itself. In his opening statement, Mr Djelic quoted Article 135 of the proposed Stabilisation and Association Agreement as saying, but left out one important fact, I wonder if it deliberately changed the circumstances after the initialling of this agreement in December 2007, the fact that a unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence took place and the fact that the 21 states in this contract are the parties, it says very clearly that EU members of the parties with the Republic of Serbia have recognised this false formation. The key question with whom and how does the Republic of Serbia build contractual relations without the dispute that we have with these countries is that they do not recognise the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Serbia enters a contractual relationship with countries that do not recognise its territorial integrity by recognising unilateral acts on its territory that are trying to disrupt this territorial integrity. It is a harsh violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's impossible to build contractual relations, and anyone who's been through law school knows that if they haven't set up a clear relationship and they don't know the rights and obligations of the parties. The other parties, in this case 21 EU Member States, have an obligation to respect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. It is the elemental dignity of a state that when it builds a contractual relationship it protects its integrity and the first question in this contractual relationship – do you respect the Republic of Serbia within its internationally recognised borders? What obligations do we make when we build a contractual relationship with such states? It is essential that any political elite that assumes the responsibility of managing the state as its first priority has to defend its territorial integrity and integrity of the state. Everything else is secondary, including the international integration of the country into various organisations and associations. It cannot be a priority for the international integration of the Republic of Serbia without having previously been clearly defined as the organisation sees Serbia. We believe that the previous issue is, and that is what we have differed from our coalition partners, to explain ourselves with the EU Member States that have decided on us to take this wrong step. Why and how do they want to build relations with the Republic of Serbia, how do they see its borders, and how can we build such a relationship if they explicitly say they do not want to recognise its territorial integrity? There's been a change of circumstances. When a change of circumstances occurs, all lawyers know, the relationship and contractual obligations of the parties must be reconsidered. The change in circumstances is the declaration of Kosovo's independence and the change in circumstances is that one of the parties decided to accept this goal against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and against the highest interests of the Republic of Serbia, which is the other party to this relationship. So, as Mr Djelic said, let's restart the talks with EU representatives, with EU Member States and ask them boldly, and that courage is lagging behind when signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in April of the month, and to discuss this dispute in order to uninterruptedly, expecting them to withdraw their wrong decision, to build relations in the future. Let us not have the illusion that the final act of this EU-led policy will not arrive very soon before us, which is that Serbia is required to recognise an independent Kosovo. Besides, Mr. Sarkozy announced it, so don't let us talk about it and stick our heads in the sand. Now, if we don't discuss this in the highest home, in the Assembly, and we don't decide that we want European integration (and not to discuss this issue first), I'm afraid we're going to come to an impossible situation for Serbia's dignity and survival, that we ourselves recognise false states in our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1687	Thank you. The word has a separate view of MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the session of the Legislative Committee, I have issued an opinion on this item of the agenda for at least two reasons. The first reason is the way this agreement was signed. We'll all remember that there was no agreement within the government. In fact, all the ministers from all the parties were not to sign an agreement with such a text at that time. I wonder if it was possible to sign at all if there was no agreement on this extremely important issue. This is a key issue that deals indirectly with the territorial integrity of our country, and therefore it is necessary to provide a consensus for its signing. The DSS is not against Eurointegration, as almost all party representatives call it and accuse it today. Gentlemen, we, through participation in Parliament's work and through participation in the work of the Government, have done, I can make it quite clear that, individually, the most that the very paraphrasing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement comes. The second reason I've singled out my opinion is that there is no agreement here on the will to sign this contract. For the EU, Serbia's territory is one thing, Serbia's territory is completely something else. It is easy to come to this conclusion if it comes from a simple analysis of Article 135, more specifically, the position of the 2nd member, which stems from the current status of Kosovo. It is impossible not to wonder how 21 EU member states, which have recognised Kosovo's independence, experience Kosovo. Don't tell me they see him as an autonomous province of Serbia, because it's simply impossible. In that situation, they wouldn't even admit it. As the EU understands Kosovo, I would like to point out, it is a matter of holding a Donor's Conference, which was held in early July, if I am not mistaken, this year in the European Commission building, which was jointly opened by Mr Olli Rehn, Commissioner for Enlargement and so on. Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim Thaci. Although the EU formally does not have the possibility of recognising the emerging states, it has, in effect, recognised it as an independent act. There is another example of how the EU is experiencing Kosovo. It's the Eulex mission. We know that EU action on the implementation of Eulex in August was extremely strong. Did our authority respond to that in a statement? Each of us knows that the Eulexa mission is part of Marty Ahtisaari's plan, which is not only rejected in Serbia, but also rejected in the United Nations Security Council. Each of us knows what the objective of the Eulex mission is – the implementation of this plan, and thus the implementation of independence. In order for my words not to be baseless, I will also call for a statement by the spokesman Eulex, in which it is clearly said, fully open, that the goal of the Eulex is to implement the Kosovo Constitution, and hence independence. This today gives us a completely different role of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement compared to Kosovo, compared to what it was before. By ratifying such an agreement, with a text like this and at this point, we would allow the agreement to become a political tool that would allow the EU to participate further in the secession of Kosovo. With this, Serbia would literally amnesty for the EU in terms of recognitions it has made when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and therefore I am of the opinion that this agreement should not be accepted at this time and in this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1689	Thank you. Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1690	I called first of all to draw attention to the disrespect of the Rules of Procedure, so that this debate, if there is any debate on the part of the parliamentary majority and the government, would make sense. What's this about? I would like to ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to inform the President of the Assembly that there is a Article 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that such a member is governed by what must be contained in every draft law. In addition to the text, there must be a constitutional basis and an explanation, and I'm not going any further. I think there's a big problem with this bill of law that's on the agenda today, because in the part of the bill where the constitutional basis stands, the promoter has only listed an invitation to Article 99. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's where he made a terrible mistake that kept us from discussing this. To remind you, it is a member of the Constitution that regulates the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and does not dispute that it says that the National Assembly is authorized to pass laws, but it is not enough, but the constitutional basis would also have to be sought in those material and legal provisions that affect the very essence of the constitutional position of the Republic of Serbia. To be more specific to the observers, I would draw attention first of all to the preamble of the Constitution, which in the second indent states very precisely what the main motive is that the Republic regulates its constitutional and legal position with one constitution. Then he would draw attention to all the provisions of the first part, which are the principles of the Constitution. In particular, I would draw attention to the provisions on territorial integrity, sovereignty, international relations between the Republic of Serbia and if all these material and legal provisions are in mind, then it is clear to you that the constitutional basis for such a legal project does not exist. First of all, I'm thinking about these first two laws that have brought the debate together. Why? Because the text of these two draft laws and the text of these two agreements deeply affects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and of course the Assembly is not authorized to consider laws, laws, which do not comply with the Constitution. So this should go back to the dorader's proposal to agree with the Constitution. We've taken a step forward, so we've submitted some amendments to normalize this bill. How will these amendments pass is a second question, but the constitutional basis for such a legal project does not exist. If you'll excuse me, just one sentence to read. Of course, Mr Djelic wrote in his cabinet why it is necessary to adopt this exactly like this. Here is a sentence that says this: "The SAA and the Transition Agreement come into force immediately, and their full application directly depends on the results of the May 11th election and the new Serbian government's policy towards completion of co-operation with The Hague tribunal." What I've read can't be a constitutional basis, it can just be a malignant motive for why one of these operations is taking place. I propose that the Proposer reprimand himself sharply, return the draft law to him and, if he finds a constitutional basis, write and submit these two draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1691	The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have issued an opinion on this item of the agenda on the Legislative Committee. Above all, the relationship between the EU and Serbia should be viewed as one bonding relationship and certainly there is no MP that New Serbia, I suppose any of you here would not, that Serbia, we all want to join the EU. That must be one big goal, but there are different ways to enter the EU and under what circumstances. One story of the contractual relationship was certain by December, but the fact, Mr. Djelic, that changed circumstances arose, that these changes were a recognition of Kosovo. They are extremely large, I think it is important that you take care of them and that in one easy way they cannot communicate with the EU, which imposes perhaps one solution that will have a long-standing impact on Serbia. Some speed right after your parade and a story about Eulex is talking about it. I think that Serbia is in a great danger, and it should make sure that what we're doing today doesn't pay for generations and how. Surely the price is high, 15% of the country's territory is not a small matter. Centuries and centuries must pass to create sovereignty, integrity, and property practically their own territory. Surely this signing can have major consequences, because the circumstances are very risky and I think that at this point we have, one, practically, the consolidation of legal work with the international community, because we strengthen this legal work in a way that can have consequences, first of all, the signing of something that is absolutely unacceptable at this point until Kosovo's status is resolved. All this says that absolutely must be taken into account in the future, because things about Kosovo are completely undefined and of course Eulex's presence, because it will obviously be in Kosovo, they say we are probably in big trouble. Of course, there is a situation in Serbia that the international community practically holds Kosovo's territory in one illegal way, but with such a qualification of legal work and such signings, I'm afraid we're not losing property over Kosovo. The change in the meaning of the SAA created from 14 December 2007 until today was contained in Serbia's signing as a foreign agreement freed the EU from responsibility for a drastic violation of international law, its internal law, the Constitution of Serbia and the SAA itself for recognising Kosovo as an independent state. In other words, with this signature, Serbia has deafened its own state interest, in exchange for the promise of a better life. Once again, I must refer to the fact that we, by means of such recognition, are, in practice, sending this kind of signature perhaps a bad message to countries that have not yet recognised Kosovo. We must show a greater strength in fighting for our territory because there are countries that have recognised Kosovo, there are countries that are in the dilemma whether to recognise Kosovo and there are countries that will never recognise Kosovo, and I am sure Serbia is a country that must never recognise Kosovo. Make sure that, with one light attitude towards a serious issue, those countries that are in a dilemma and those that will never admit Kosovo are not being misled.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1693	Do you think there are any other interested ones? The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have issued an opinion on the Legislative Committee because no serious and responsible citizen of this country, and especially the MP, should accept the proposal for this agreement offered by the Government of Boris Tadic. A moment ago, Mr. Djelic was here jumping and shouting and saying, "I've already said that before, a series of false things." Mr. Momir Markovic did not finish what we heard from Boris Tadic last night when it comes to signing a contract with the "Fiita". Mr. Djelic, listen to the MPs, not only "yellows", but also those who have something wise to tell you from here. You said earlier that the agreement... You think it's funny that I say we're smart? If it's funny to you, keep it to yourself, and as a minister, or vice president, you mustn't act like one. You've received the appearance of Dragan Sutanovac. So, you said you'd sign a contract with the Fiat a few days after the ratification of this agreement. Last night, your boss Tadic said it would not be so soon, that citizens should understand the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government at all because they need to build roads to the Kragujevac. I went from all sides to Kragujevac, I know it's possible to get to Kragujevac from several sides and on which he meant the roads I really don't know, but mostly that's what he said. You, Mr Djelic, said a few days ago, are also in some euphoric state as it is today, that Serbia will join the EU on Vidovdan 2012, and today you said that some transitional deadline since the implementation of this agreement is five years. Something in your account doesn't add up. What's the point now, why can't we accept this agreement? Today when you went out here and jumped behind this pay phone, you reminded me of what you were doing in that room, when we asked you where you got 11m euros from, how you stole them from the people of Serbia, then you were jumping and yelling that we should all say, well done, Master of God, Lord of God, you're an expert. This is how you cried out here today. Let's adopt, let's adopt, and you didn't say what was the essence. You haven't said a single word about the very proposal you're about to adopt. You spoke at all, you said so that you were staining the eyes of the citizens of Serbia, that the citizens who listen to you today think – God, maybe this people will benefit from it. If you honestly meant what you said at the beginning, too, in a special tone and shouting – we will never give Kosovo, we will never agree that KIM is not in Serbia's membership, though, you are always saying – Kosovo, which means that it is already something that has been set aside for you, really if you thought it was in the current government, you would accept the amendment submitted by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, on this proposal. You sent to the MPs, Ivica Dacic signed this opinion of the Government on the amendment, when it comes to the amendment we will talk about it, but I cannot miss this, you said – "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that Kosovo and Metohija are not the main subject of the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU. “ For the MPs of the SRS, that is, the basic subject. If you were able to make a deal with your friends, who have already recognised Kosovo as a false state, to accept this amendment, and you won't because they don't give it to you, then we could think about everything you've been saying, even if it was a bunch of lies. As long as KIM is not the basic subject of an agreement for you, you are anti-Serbian, traitorous, pro-Western government and you will not have the support of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1695	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, an authorised representative of the SRS for this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1696	Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, depend only on the ruling majority that the SRS will vote on an EU accession agreement. It is up to you and depends on whether you will adopt an interpretative declaration confirming international integrity, or what the state borders of Serbia are as states and what you are declaring to be in each place. We don't allow any moment to impose the thesis that marketing can affect reality, no matter how eloquently it is. You are not asking us to close our eyes and to believe that this agreement is not in any way related to the efforts of the part of European countries, I say precisely – the works of European countries, to give to a national minority, this time to Albanians, a gift to the state. Also, please do not keep quiet the fact that there is another huge stumbling block on the way to Europe, or the Association Agreement, which is called - The Hague condition. The obstacle to ratification of the Association Agreement in some European countries will be removed once Russia, its insistent efforts, has succeeded in closing The Hague tribunal. In this Russian initiative, as well as a large number of citizens of the Serbian state, I believe, not only because of his, The Hague court, human organs trafficking, and that of the Serbs, in 1999 at the time of NATO action "Merciful Angel", but because of all the deaths for which the court is responsible, directly and indirectly, because it has reached a liberating verdict on Naser Oric, but primarily because of the violation of justice and principles important to all people, all women, all children, all mothers, and not winners and defeated. The choice that I am talking about the SSP in the SRS did not fall because we consider its content relevant in terms of economic issues, but because I am one of the Serbians with KIM, who, like many Serbs today, tomorrow knows who, Gorans, Turks, Muslims and many others, is about applying the conditioned economic agreement, where the assessment of the fulfillment of the conditions is carried out, not exactly meeting certain criteria. And so I'm not going to talk about three and a half thousand questions from the questionnaire that you have to answer, about 110 or 160 thousand sides of the law that needs to be changed, about how much contributions from the gross national membership product, and how much adjustment costs are, we're going to talk about it when we talk about borrowing, because the story of the Association Agreement is the story of article 135, which Mr. Djelic correctly quoted, but one, the caller was allowed with the mind. You initialled, Mr. Djelic, on November 7, 2007 at the height of the campaign, a text in which article 135 stands, where the fate of KIM has been particularly singled out. But you forgot that on February 17th, although Resolution 1244 exists, Kosovo's independence has been declared. I believe in the principled support of Russia, primarily because of the existence of international law as the last wall of defense. Dostoevsky says – if there is no God, everything is allowed. I repeat - in international relations, if we do not respect international law, international relations do not exist. There are times when we have to do something ourselves, not Russia, not countries that understand and support us. There are times when no one can be a bigger Serb than us Serbs, and by this I mean every citizen of Serbia who believes that. This is both this moment and this occasion, which is a member of the 135th agreement and a request for an interpretative declaration, that internationally recognised borders are understood below Serbia's borders. I am informing the Serbian public that it is the only requirement of the SRS to raise hands for this European integration. The interpretative declaration does not change the content of the Agreement, only highlights the way Serbia understands the provision that speaks of KIM. It's the only condition and the motion to vote on it. Politicians come and go, assembly meetings, presidents, prime ministers, remains only what we are obliged to leave to future generations, which is the country, the whole, that we inherited. A country which is not created by conquest campaigns, a state that cannot give up its work where monasteries, churches, or mine treasures, fields, orchards, but also the life of people, the lives of those who live there and us who live here and there and there and there and there, scattered, displaced, but rooted and hoping that one day we will return and light the candles without protection and rifles. It is not enough to talk, Mr. Djelic, that we will never recognise Kosovo. If the EU asks Serbia to recognise Kosovo to become its member, then we should not join the EU because no member has given up his territory. This sentence is repeated by the president of the state, prominent historians, lawyers, MPs and all people, but here is the place and this is the time to put a signature on that statement that is unique to us. Let's ask those who say they don't ask us to give up Kosovo and Metohija. Let's not assume. That declaration is a way to get a completely accurate answer from them, not to fool them or ourselves, to know if it's worth all the effort we have. Why do you mean hope or fear? Open, treason or not. The adoption of the SAA without a clear provision of Article 135, in the manner required by the interpretation declaration, will be a silent agreement for the separation of KIMs. Since the initialling of November 7th, with such a hazy definition to this ratification, there has been a declaration of independence as a unilateral and international illegal definition of status, and contrary to Resolution, as article 135 said. It is an important enough fact that has happened and important enough for all foreign signatories in the meantime, and it is important that all of us, as signatories of this agreement, be made clear. Some will find it interesting to follow how the SAA's ratification in countries that Kosovo considers to be a state, some will be interesting, but we are not observers. We must be responsible politicians who must have a minimum of honesty towards themselves and their people. Repeat that you will not recognise Kosovo by holding hands in the Constitution that you swore upon when you came to these functions, but also on this particular constitution called the Association Agreement that you are introducing us to, the constitution of the state in which we are entering, because it is a constitution that will guarantee us international borders and no other. You don't need any special resolution on Kosovo. I'll remind you why I insist on this. An explanation that Peter Feith has given in time that Montenegro's recognition of Kosovo's independence will not cause major consequences -- he will eventually withdraw an ambassador from Podgorica. In essence, the statement gave a fully comprehensive assessment of all actions Serbia has taken to protect its territorial integrity. He did it with a certain cynicism and a sense of absolute supremacy of the winner, and for us it was defeated that there was truth in it. Because, as he defined Serbia's state policy towards Kosovo, he will withdraw the ambassadors and that's all. Everything that has happened in the state of Serbia since February 17th is referred to in the West, not without a basis, has been interpreted – by showing the weakness of the Serbian state. With complete right, any of the acacias can be called that. Is it possible to avoid criticism that the government, instead of defining a state policy aimed at protecting territorial integrity at a critical moment for the country, gentlemen politicians, as you are, but not at citizens, statesmen, focused on themselves and on preserving their own positions, showing a very high degree of irresponsibility. At a Security Council session in June 2008, an attempt to install Eulex was failed at KIM. I'm talking about Ban Ki Moon, who skillfully designed the situation for this event, in the sense that he did everything to reduce the attention of the main players to the event. How did that attempt end? Because of Russia's opposition, he has given them the head of his special envoy in Kosovo, Joachim Riker, and you know in the latest developments in alleged technical transfers of logistics and resources, as far as he has fulfilled it, that UNMIK will continue to be responsible for preserving order and borders, for justice, customs, traffic, infrastructure and the assets of the SPC. He even tried to challenge Mr Tadic's pity, saying the issue of Kosovo's status is the most complicated of all issues he has addressed in his career. He said, "I feel a sharp pain," which Tadic replied, that Serbia, which is cut alive into pieces by kidnapping Kosovo, felt even greater pain and added: "I will be absolutely honest, Serbia will never recognise Kosovo. “ Let us turn that statement given in the relevant place and the serious man into the adoption of an interpretative declaration, where we confirm our common intention that we will never recognise Kosovo by guaranteeing our people the international border. Brussels, however, has long since heard Europe. When I say - Brussels has long heard Europe, I thus make the difference between Brussels as bureaucracy and the countries that are EU members, in the same way as our government, as represented in Boris Tadic's regime, separates itself from the interests of its people, offering an agreement and pretending that it is not a member of the 135th withdrawal of Kosovo. This Europe has already begun to take revenge. Sarkozy has given himself an explanation and says – concerned citizens of Europe are wondering if they are still more protected by the national framework than they are protected by the European framework. He basically told the truth. There is no policy of furniture in its own house as Europe does. It gives one hand to one national minority state, and another asks EU countries to decide or push Serbia's state into the EU on their behalf with a desire to delegate our rights to transnational Brussels. Not all ways can be lobbyed to recognise Kosovo's independence if, in doing so, you have inside, I am talking about the European Union, the hidden opponents of this idea. Finally, what's important, you can't keep expanding by handling yourself exclusively to the needs of the current political moment, forgetting that even citizens are wondering about something. It can't be said that the Lisbon Agreement has tripped precisely on Balkan soil, but right here it has shown all its imperfections, because by eradicating borders in Europe Brussels at the same time contributes in all possible ways to the formation of another mononational state, the Albanian state in the Balkans. Ignoring the opinion not only of the world but also of its works, means, to the European public, the Council of the European Union points to Kosovo for its mission, which has found itself in a questionable semi-legal position. Should the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia be experimental ground for an experiment called, what America has and is called NATO, the European Union needs its security system, repeatedly trying to establish itself, and failed, to build on us through the Eulex. They can try, and it's up to us not to. Citizens should be acknowledged that there are many statements in the European Union that say that the enlargement of the European Union is delayed until the issue of ratification of the Lisbon Agreement is resolved. So, completely uncertain entry into the European Union and uncertain profits, non-accounting for costs and damages. Do you know what they're replacing? By allowing the part of Serbia's state territory to be left to what is called a "illegal state of Kosovo". The only way to avoid it is, I repeat, to plead for an interpretative declaration. I don't want anyone here treating Serbia, or Kosovo, with a protection zone against Russia's expansion. Neither Kosovo nor Metohija sails into the sea of oil, but neither is the desert. You must understand that Kosovo and Metohija are for us a homeland, and that no country that has joined or wants to join the European Union has required such a condition. There's one more thing I want to say. It's completely excessive and pointless fear of Brussels, America, powerful, because power without justice is tyranny. We don't have anywhere from ours. Just because I live in Novi Sad today and many of my people and I are similar somewhere else doesn't mean we don't have the right to Kosovo and Metohija. When someone comes, but there's no resistance on the other side, they'll never stop. The responsibility of the SRS as a parliamentary party is to warn the public, and we have given you an honorable exit. I repeat, it is up to you alone that the SRS will vote in favour of the Agreement on Joining the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1697	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1698	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that all of our MPs will vote in favour of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, but at the same time I would like to express my regret for the way it is said about, in fact, the first treaty of our country and the European Union. Much has been said by Vice-President Djelic, many of which were said by party representatives who had spoken before me, but it seems to me that the essence of the political problem our society faces all the time and which will not be resolved by the fact that 142 MPs will vote for this document. It is obvious that most in this parliament want to lead Serbia to Europe but will not reach that Europe unless it finds an agreement with parties who do not want to vote for this document, but it seems to me that they want Serbia more or less in the European Union. Mr. Djelic, you were obliged to answer a simple question before talking about the cabbage, about the roads, about everything you said, and what is important – why didn't you agree with the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party? We have a duty before this House to return politics to this debate. There is no party in the Serbian Parliament that has agreed to Kosovo's independence. No party in parliament said during a debate in February that it was ready to support a project launched on November 17th. There are differences between us. The LDP spoke of a reality that has been confirmed to a greater or lesser extent not only through what the countries of the European Union or the Russian Federation did in the meantime, but also through what has become the dominant orientation of the ruling coalition in the government itself. We think that's good. But we didn't get an answer to the question why not provide the minimum without which Serbia can't go to Europe. You said a lot, but all this remains in the second plan before the fact that this divided country does not have a European character, and that politicians who are obliged to water must find it in it because there are great European potentials in it. We received this agreement much more because Europe took care of Serbia's future than because we ourselves were able to do everything that many have done before us. It seems to me that only Bosnia and Herzegovina signed the agreement after us. The countries in our region have done this job a long time ago. Why is Serbia so slow, incompetent and so unhappy? Eight years ago, we started this big project -- Serbia's return to the international community and Serbia's return through the process of European integration to the European Union and its values, and we did it together. Here, eight years after that, we find ourselves in the same place with dramatically smaller potentials and unfortunately increased problems. There are great differences between us just as there are great differences in the political lives of countries that make up the European Union, but cannot be entered into Europe without looking for similarities and compromises. Not too many representatives of the SRS spoke about their proposal as well as representatives of the DSS, you can do something about it but have you tried anything to deal with the two parties. You have made Kosovo so powerful in your speech. In your view of Kosovo, you do not, in our opinion, differ essentially from the attitudes of DSS and SRS representatives, so the parties that we think are needed by Serbia in the process of European integration. You said you did not support independent Kosovo as well as the proponents of an interpretative resolution, the declarations, as you already called it, in fact, in my opinion it would be an attempt to make some compromise. Kosovo is obviously the result, not the cause, of the problems our society faces, and of the weaknesses that have surfaced in Kosovo's space before that were exposed to other areas. We need to ask ourselves where is that space where they're gonna show up tomorrow. The story of Europe is not just a story of the material benefit that Serbia has through the process of European integration, although in such a society as our material values are certainly not values that need to be pushed into another plan. That's not what I want you to do. But it is the institution of human rights, the problems that remain behind us, without clear answers, that obliges us to speak equally in the process of European integration and not to pass over the essence of the problem by saying that we see the future of this European job in Serbia. In the formation of the Government, we have said that we will support you in every European effort, and we will do so now. But I think it is much more important from our votes not to warn but to draw attention to the fact that in this business Serbia cannot count on success unless it reaches an agreement with those with whom it must reach an agreement if it wants to change and progress. Half of Serbia cannot live in the EU and the other half in the Russian Federation. It's just a metaphor, I think everyone understands the essence. When we talk about what the content of this document is, then we talk about general freedom of movement, of the market, of institutions. You're in the business of European integration, you're authorized by the prime minister, but it's not registered to you here during the debate on the government, it's not assigned to you as a function here in Parliament, it was last time. I don't mean to judge your work, I don't think there were any conditions for you to do anything about it. It seems to me that it's some kind of degradation and that's not what's good. If it wasn't last time, it had to be this time. What I want to tell you is that we ourselves are responsible for the situation we are in, much more than Europe. If we're talking about general freedom of movement, who's responsible for why we can't travel without visas today? Who's responsible for not printing passports? You said there are 700,000 passports in Serbia, in fact, three million and 700,000. You know yourself that at this point, it's only a matter of our efficiency as an obstacle to this white Schengen, which we've been talking about for years. We will not be allowed to travel without visas until we print and divide at least two-thirds of the travel documents from the number of currently existing travel documents. This job takes a year, a year and a half. It has to be a priority that we're going to devote ourselves to, which we're going to do. We ran through it – local self-government, decentralisation, the issue of the Statute of Vojvodina. We signed the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and then here we passed a whole set of laws that is directly contrary to the Charter that we previously adopted. Depolitisation of state administration, professionalisation, Law on civil servants and deputies adopted in 2006, with a clear deadline, and a deadline moved to play the law and to place those leaving on the same character as those who were there until that moment. The issue of monopoly, market economy, all of this obliges us to talk about the character of this society when we talk about our European future, European affairs, much more than what is the side effect of European integration. It's pre-accession funds, it's a slightly wider market, it's a little more security that comes from the fact that the future is a little bit more certain. I think that answer is most important to us right now. We cannot run a policy of continuity at the same time and continue the process of European integration with the ambition to make it successful. These two policies are irreconcilable and more or less everyone in this room knows it's true. This does not mean that Serbia should forget about Kosovo, for example, but it obliges us to have a different relationship with this country. Why are we lying to each other? Let Parliament say what is more important to this country, whether it is more important, in our opinion, to the foreigners that have been moving for the past 20 years, or whether it is more concerned with clear policy and alternative offer. We are not happy about the problems the country is in, but we warn you that they will not be solved in this way. Today is our president in Brussels, today is our prime minister in Brussels, today is Foreign Minister in Brussels, and that is important. But we both met the president and prime minister in Parliament only when Kosovo was being discussed. I don't mean to measure the weight of one topic or another, but I think that the importance of this issue, which we are now discussing, has been to force both the President and the Prime Minister to sit here beside us in this bench and contribute, each in their own way, to define that policy that would help us achieve these efforts. When our voters break up from the polls, they live more or less the same life. They are equally ill treated, equally unable to understand the fact that the books they bought at school for that school are unacceptable, equally concerned about the future of their children, etc. In spite of all the differences we are so similar, then we must understand through that Europe what is the precondition of European Serbia, the willingness to find some interests besides differences, and that future reconciles. Europe rests on the historic reconciliations of French, English, German and French. Millions have disappeared in these misunderstandings, today this future in Europe is safe because it crystallises the common interests of all these peoples and states. Why is there no common interest in this House? We did not experience a vote for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as a confirmation of KIM independence. Whether Kosovo and Metohija are independent or not, we can discuss some other issues, but voting on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement is definitely not a vote for KIM independence. We don't see the problem in that part of the document proposed by the SRS. We do not think that Parliament would make a mistake if he said that by voting for the Stabilisation Agreement, Parliament did not agree to what happened in Kosovo on February 17th 2008. We think Kosovo's future is a future in which a compromise must be reached between the two nations, including the readiness of the Serbian state to pass on to Serbs living in Kosovo and Kosovo citizens the right that is incapable of achieving it now. Why do we harm ourselves so much from the fact that we will vote on the country's European future, at the same time that all the parties that share here in Parliament show such high degree of agreement in adopting a document such as this defining the future in Serbia and the Russian Federation's energy co-operation? How is it possible for DS and DSS to agree on the second item of the agenda that they say is essential, and that we will dispute, and cannot agree on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement they have worked on together for years. In our opinion not sufficiently effective, in our opinion contradictoryly, in our opinion often irresponsiblely, but you've been doing it together for years. A Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been adopted by the government, namely one of its forms and the practical issue of signature has become controversial. You're obliged to find a compromise between each other and make a deal about it. That for LDP, for our voters, is no problem. Every step closer to Europe changes the climate in our society and leaves more room for normal political action, but this is not right. We will vote in favour of the agreement, but in advance, we are showing great skepticism towards the potentials within your ruling coalition to do this job. You saw what it looked like yesterday's session, and you know very well that we are discussing the Agreement today, not because the ruling coalition has made it possible, but because the SRS has made this concession. I think that's something to be said in public. I think you were obliged to do that. At least he won't be ashamed of the president and prime minister in Brussels. What we consider to be priorities we do not recognize or to an insufficient extent see in your exposé, we are primarily interested in the development of democracy, the affirmation of institutions, the rule of human rights, much more than those economic aspects that are formally contained in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. When we look at what is the essence of this Agreement, then we talk about our partnership with the EU. The EU has said so many times that it is ready to co-operate with all who show an understanding of European values and who demonstrate a desire for Serbia's progress in this European integration business. It must be the rule of our work here in Parliament. We will propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure, not to narrow down the right of MPs to discuss here, but to speed up procedures in those jobs that are no longer to stand by, because of the fact that some other points are equally important or urgent. A lot of time has been lost. That is why we will propose to Parliament that all European laws here be discussed in a different procedure than with other initiatives. It can only be done with each other's compromise. The precondition for this compromise must define power and cannot be done by the LDP. Whether or not the opposition will agree to this, that question will be answered through their performance, but that offer must be put on the table, not as something to be traded with, but as an opportunity for every MP and MP in this House to do something for their voters. We don't see that the SAA is a party business and that's why no party can monopolize that idea. The idea of a European future for the country is much wider than any party contact, and that is why we were not the problem throughout the campaign, we are asking the EU for an opportunity that has been presented to us at the very end of the campaign when the president, for which everyone deserves respect, put his signature on the SAA together with you. And that's what, your signature, his support, I agree. I hope he doesn't mind. I suggest you try during this debate and until the vote itself to make some kind of deal with those parties that opened something like that as a possibility. I mean, first of all, the DSS and the SS. We will support any agreement that reduces the differences in the European integration process. I repeat, our relationship with Kosovo must no longer be an obstacle to doing those jobs that are crucially changing the character of this society, which are the affairs of European integration. I hope everyone learns from lessons we haven't asked for in the last few weeks, that we've learned a lot from these now clear relationships, not the twisted Russian Federation, Europe and America, that we realize that it's not good when we become a polygon where forces are practically measured and interests are articulated because there's the least price on that space, because we'll know that we're learning some lessons from these lessons. Kosovo is one of the last and I hope no one should explain what is meant by it. We vote for the SAA and another congratulatory card to the president and vice-president of the government who signed it in Luxembourg during the election campaign. I'm not criticising you for running over the DSS and SRS proposal, I'm just warning you there's nothing from European Serbia unless we all go together to that Serbia. There are issues where we can differ, topics that we will face most of the time, but this must not be the process of European integration if we want to be successful. Do something to make it happen during this debate. Sit down with Nikolic, sit down with Kostunica, talk to him and find a chance for that deal. Otherwise, some other government will do the job, and I hope it will be a government formed by the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1699	The word has been given by MP Slobodan Samardzic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group. After that, MP Susana Grubjesic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1700	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, we have heard a lot today in the exposé of the Deputy Prime Ministers about the future relations between Serbia and the EU when this agreement is ratified, when it comes into force and when it is implemented. Of course, at this point it is an excess story because we today have another problem with the EU, and that is the problem of deeply disturbed relations between Serbia and the EU. This is a question that has been on the agenda of history for the past few months and this is a question to be discussed in Parliament. These things that are part of the Agreement, particularly the economic and trade parts, are more or less indisputable, at least from the DSS's point of view, which took part in two governments and which prepared the agreement, either in a technical round or in real negotiations. So that's the topic that was supposed to be on the agenda and the exposé, and this is how we have one simple substitute for thesis, or, if you like, one suppression or cover-up of clues. Serbia and the EU have deeply disturbed relations today. The SAA was to establish a comprehensive relationship between EU and Serbia's accession. In fact, from one such task, the agreement has become the most common political tool in the EU's operation to take Kosovo away from Serbia. We, of course, can and should regret it, but we should not give up on our state interests. I would remind you that the negotiations on this agreement were concluded sometime in September 2007. It was initialled on 7 November 2007, therefore, with the full consent of the then government. There have been major changes since then. So what legal change is said politically is a deep disturbance in Serbia and the EU's relations. Can we, from this context, sign and ratify this agreement? In the opinion of the DSS certainly not. What's this relationship disorder in? I'll list just a few facts, there are a lot of them, but a few facts that talk enough about Serbia and the EU having no more good relations, no matter what anyone thinks about it or what they do. First of all, since 7 November 2007, the EU or the Council of Europe reached conclusions on which it has taken the lead in the implementation of so-called "the European Council". solutions to Kosovo. The solution for Kosovo is Ahtisaari's plan. Then, on 3 February 2008, the Council of EU Ministers brought so-called "action position" or a joint action that has, in fact, taken the role of overseeing Kosovo's independence. So then he tasked Eulex to come to Kosovo and do his job. Finally, as a third fact, the fact is that since 17 February 2008, to date, 21 member states have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. These three facts are enough for what I want to say. The EU has, above all, violated this text of the SAA, therefore, not the Agreement itself because it is not in force, but it is many of the provisions of this Agreement – paragraph 7 of the Preamble to the Agreement which speaks of the obligation to respect international law, the Charter of UN, the Final Act of Helsinki, etc. Afterwards, many provisions of EU founding acts - Article 11 - have been violated. The EU's agreement on EU foreign policy objectives can only be implemented with respect to the UN Charter, the Helsinki Final Act, which explicitly mentions the principle of non-violence of borders, has also been violated. So, only European law has been violated with these three facts that I mentioned. Furthermore, some provisions of the Treaty on European Community, provisions governing the European Community's accession to countries that want to do so, have been violated. First of all, the EU's mutual rights and obligations, on the one hand, and the state as contractual partners. Also, the Constitution of Serbia itself has been violated. So I've listed the main legal acts that have been violated by these acts, by the EU's action since the moment the agreement was initialled to this day. Of course, a famous member of 135 was also violated. SSP. He's been violated because the second sentence of attitude 2 is no longer valid. It says that the agreement does not apply to Kosovo according to Resolution 1244, there is an international protectorate, not a so-called. Kosovo's current status and determining its final position towards the same resolution. Someone has already said, quite rightly, that after recognition by 21 Member States, the current KIM status for the largest number or most of that party we sign the same agreement is an independent Kosovo. Despite all this, part of the government signed the agreement on 29 April 2008. I must warn you that it was part of the government when it was already in the technical mandate, it was in the technical mandate from 6-7 March, it was part of the government, behind that government did not stand a number of ministers and did not stand as Prime Minister. It's just weird in itself. Secondly, the circumstances under which the agreement was signed were true conspiratorial circumstances. There is then the Deputy Prime Minister, the man who signed the Agreement, there is no decision by the government's competent committee or decision to go and sign the agreement. Such a document doesn't exist today, as if it were some illegal sabotage, some conspiracy, not signing such an important agreement. We have to keep that fact in mind. Why? We forgot, on April 29th, it was the top of the election campaign, the funds were not chosen, and then the EU decided to take advantage of one side of the campaign and disabling the other side of the campaign. There were then famous words about pro-European and anti-European forces in Serbia. Under these conditions, the agreement was signed in a conspiracy way. What is the change of purpose and meaning of this agreement, and why do we not need to ratify it today? It seems to have nothing to do with this agreement with KIM, but certainly it does, the context determines that connection. In fact, I said at the outset that he had become an EU asset in seizing KIM. It's about Serbia. When such an act or disobedience seems to be one state, international relations are extremely normal and it is expected for the aggressor to be defeated, to admit defeat, to approach one such activity himself. As long as Serbia resists the EU and its acts on Kosovo's independence, even if it does not sign such a long-term, complex agreement, until Serbia has a chance to fight for its territory. The moment she signs such an agreement, which has both a political and economic and a strategic aspect, Serbia is taking part in the takeover of its territory. This is the context that cannot be avoided if we sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The EU knows that, and it is precisely why it put wind in the back of one side of the campaign during the campaign, unfeelingly interfering with Serbia's internal affairs. Of course, the EU cared at that point not to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Serbia but to, in fact, free Serbia from responsibility for what it does, which is active participation, the most active possible participation in the secession of Kosovo and in implementing such an illegal international act. Due to all this, the DSS proposes to the Assembly today or under this item of the agenda not to adopt a law confirming this international agreement. It's not the time. Serbia and the EU, as I said, have deeply disturbed political relations and this will not be overcome by the fact that a small majority here will vote in favour of the ratification law, and yet a large minority in parliament is against it. The settlement in Serbia, not only in Parliament, will remain. We need as a sovereign state to open up a conversation with Brussels about things I'm talking about. If we don't, Serbia, do it, no one will. Brussels is asking for amnesty from Serbia, not asking for dialogue to be opened. All of this is contrary to that part – title two, about the political dialogue that stands and the SAA. Of course, something like this that the DSS proposes to open a discussion on the matter, to approach one another in the creation of such a state strategy and to address the EU, means one vacuum in Serbia and the EU's relations. The vacuum is not good for Serbia's economic development, that must be said. The SAA is important for economic reform and institutional stability and economic development of Serbia. The agreement really needs to raise Serbia to one level of competitiveness in relations with EU countries, with businesses, with economic operators, etc. He's very important to Serbia. But Serbia cannot ratify it because part of Serbia's territory is being taken away through it, because much deeper values are being disturbed in such a relationship. What do you do in such a situation? Serbia always has opportunities, not giving up the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, to do what it says in the Agreement with the European Community and the EU in another way, one set of bilateral agreements opening trade relations on certain products or deeper trade relations between Serbia and the European Community, agreements on what is important for Serbia to develop technology and science, education, the visa regime and everything else, so that, simply, time is not wasted. The EU has no reason not to accept such an initiative by Serbia unless it wants to be punished, and there is no reason to punish Serbia. It's the only way a vacuum could be filled until those open problems are solved. I insist on this because these problems will burden Serbia and the EU's relations all and if this agreement is ratified today or tomorrow. There will be no happiness in Serbia and the EU's relations. The EU will press Serbia to fulfil its obligations under the Agreement, primarily politically, not economically, where objective parameters exist, which are and how they are measured, but politically. Take that famous good neighbourly co-operation under the title of the three agreements, part of regional co-operation. Read article 16. This calls for good neighbourly co-operation with countries that are in the process of stabilisation and accession. I'm going to ask the Prime Minister -- does he think Kosovo is in the process of stabilisation and accession today? I'm saying it is. Therefore, Serbia is also obliged with Kosovo to develop such relations, and the Union will insist on that. Why? Because he wants to end the issue of relations with Serbia -- Serbia without Kosovo. I think our MPs from the DS and the Coalition for Europe understand that well. I think they understand that very well. It's not complicated stuff. The question here is, in fact, whether to insist on state issues in this matter or not, put your head in the sand and believe that through the SAA and this agreement, these state issues will be resolved. There is one complex of issues in which the EU has never set foot in its relations with its partners with which it has concluded similar contracts, from the European Treaties in 1991 to those on stabilisation and accession. These are issues of state borders, issues of internal state order and the issue of state or national identity. In these three things, the Union has never set foot. Only in this case, when it comes to Serbia, is the Union going into all three issues: the internal borders, the issue of state planning and the issue of state identity. That's why you won't be able to deal with the Union yourself, when you're majorityed, with that tiny, little, poor, most of it, vote such an important agreement. That's what I'm warning you. That's why we're telling you, it's the last time that the state gets together, that its legislative and presidential body gets together, that there is a discussion about these unfinished issues, and that before the EU comes forward as state rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1701	The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic, president of the G 17 Plus parliamentary group, followed by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1702	Thank you. The honourable MPs, the respected presidency, the Deputy Prime Minister, are no doubt that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is one of the cornerstones of the Serbian political scene. In the long run, signing this agreement is also the cornerstone of relations, both in the past and in the direction of the Serbian future. Disputes over this agreement and its fate are driving a fundamental topic for Serbia, which is – which way should it go. They are twice before us – European and non-European and they are both legitimate. The ne European path has its own legitimacy as one political option, but it has a whole series of practical weaknesses that make it subject to a lot of disputes. At the same time, the EU cannot be its own goal, it cannot be just marketing. The EU is the most successful peace and economic project since World War II, and as such it is cleansed from any euphoria, from cheap demagogy and political exclusion. It is based on a clear national and national interest. In each of the 27 Member States, a genuine consensus of political elites and citizenship has been reached and there is no consensus in countries that wish to become members except Serbia. Here some have tried to impose themselves as authentic interpreters of Serbia's state and national interest, but I don't think there is anyone who believes Serbia deserves and should remain on the Balkan tail. Serbia's state and national interest is to be rich, successful and integrated in the world. As soon as Brussels suggested that the Union could offer Serbia the signing of this agreement, political parties and the public in Serbia split. The basic thinking of those who then opposed the signing, and today the ratification of the SAA, could be summarised in the following way. Serbia is due to sign the agreement as a whole, and since 20 of the 27 member states have recognised Kosovo's independence, it should not be signed, or ratified, as it is fortunately signed on 28 April this year. From that moment until today, we have had the opportunity to hear different interpretations of this agreement. His content, his interpretations, were presented with a lot of inaccuracies. Because when we look at this agreement, what do we see? Is Serbia in the amended borders or the agreement on improving political, regional, trade, sectoral, co-operation between Serbia and EU countries? Of course we see the other one. One part of the opposition to signing, and today's ratification has not questioned the positive economic effects of this agreement, but has challenged provisions on state co-operation in the region covered by the stabilisation and accession process, citing that agreeing to this kind of regional co-operation means recognising Kosovo's independence. Here, this famous member of the 16th. The SAA says Serbia should co-operate with countries in the stabilisation and accession process. As far as we know, Kosovo is not yet involved in the process of stabilisation and accession, and even less is the state, and so is the obligation of regional co-operation and Serbia and the formation neither Serbia nor seven EU member states to recognise, simply cannot be interpreted as an indirect recognition of Kosovo's independence. The subject matter of Article 16 concerns, above all, the improvement of economic and trade co-operation with countries that are in the process of stabilisation and accession. Serbia has made such a commitment not now, by signing the SPP, but by signing the CEFTA agreement in December 2006, and Cefte's contract party is UNMIK through Kosovo. Kosovo is mentioned in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement only in Article 135, which defines the territorial application of the Agreement and the Deputy Prime Minister has read the article, and I will read for those who may have forgotten. He says: "This agreement is not applicable in Kosovo currently under international administration in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 since 10 June 1999. He does not question the current status of Kosovo or determine its final position towards the same resolution. “ The same formulation has been used since the conclusion of the Agreement on Trade in Textile and Textile Products between Serbia and the European Community in 2005, then in the Energy Community Agreement, in the Performance Study, in the CEFTA Agreement, and the text of this article was proposed on 7 November 2005, in the first official round of negotiations between the EU and the then-Montenegro community. This article is not even being held in negotiations, it has only been accepted. In the same form, they appear in all bilateral agreements between Serbia and the EU, as it is then, and today, in line with Serbia's state policy in relation to Kosovo. For three years, it has been negotiated with full awareness that these agreements do not apply to Kosovo's territory, as the SPP does not apply to Kosovo's territory, and after three years we are now rebelling and we are demanding that Kosovo be introduced into the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is at least unserious. There was also an argument that the agreement was not in line with the Serbian Constitution. We can discuss this and whether the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement was in accordance with the Constitution at the time, or whether it was against the constitution, because it left part of the sovereignty of our territory. Both this Stabilisation and Association Agreement and all the agreements signed after 1999 were signed under the Kumanovski Agreement. Serbia signed the CEFTA Agreement, an agreement on a regional energy community with Unmika, but de facto with part of its territory. Does this mean that we have already recognised KIM's independence, as it stems from some legal analysis that has been offered in the pre-election campaign. Let's not talk about it anymore, get back to the deal. In short, this is a free trade agreement. As such, he has a number of positive effects on the economy and citizens of Serbia. Serbia's goods have free access to the EU market, which is a particular benefit for Serbia's competitors; citizens receive goods and services of higher quality at lower prices due to higher elections, the country's credit rating is growing, loans to citizens due to competition in the area of providing financial services, the competitiveness of the output sector is improving, the country's direct foreign investment, productivity and employment in the export sector is growing linearly, the country's current balances of exports resulting in positive effects. However, when it comes to the effects of this agreement, the first and most often mentions the growth of foreign direct investment. The assessment that the application of this agreement will lead to an increase in foreign investment is based on the experiences of countries that joined the EU in 2004 and 2007. Because, since the political changes in the late '80s and early '90s, when those countries signed so-called. Europe's agreements, which is otherwise the pandan of today's Stabilisation and Association Agreement, have invested around 158 billion euros of foreign direct investment in eight post-socialist countries. As regards the harmonisation of the rules referred to in the Agreement, Article 72 shall apply. The agreement began on the date of signature. The coordination focuses on the fundamental elements of legal fluids on the internal market, the judiciary, freedom and security, as well as other trade-related areas. In addition, one of the additional objectives is to achieve visa liberalisation as soon as possible. Laws awaiting adoption are essential for visa waivers for all Serbian citizens. These are the foreign law, the protection of personal data and the law on the protection of the state border. As far as the internal market is concerned, the area should be set aside from the protection of competition and state aid control. The rules on competition protection, concerning the issue of abuse of the monopoly position on cartels and the position of public enterprises, will be assessed on the basis of the criteria applied in the European Community. The guarantee of the application of these rules in Serbia will be the Council and the Competition Protection Commission, which will be given more authority by amending and supplementing the Competition Protection Act, which I sincerely hope will soon enter the assembly procedure, so that this body on our market has the same role that the European Commission plays in the EU's internal market. One of the basic objectives of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is Serbia's EU accession. After this agreement, we will only have one more contract to sign the moment we become a member of the EU. Association is achieved through the establishment of joint institutions. These are: the Stabilisation and Association Council, the Stabilisation and Association Committee and the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. The composition of these bodies will make up the same number of representatives of Serbia and the EU. The parties agreed in Article 139 that certain provisions of mutual interest, which primarily regulate trade issues, should take effect before the ratification is completed in all 27 Member States. This is mainly the case with the trade provisions of this Agreement and the Transitional Agreement, with both agreements signed in Luxembourg, and the Transitional and Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The conclusion says the agreement will start to apply once the European Union Council makes a decision that positively assesses Serbia's co-operation with The Hague tribunal. So the agreement came into force on 1 July of this year, but will not apply unless the Council makes the said decision. We, of course, expect the EU Council to make such a decision now at its September 15th meeting in Brussels. This is one of the goals of visiting our highest delegation to Brussels. So, all that I mentioned, as well as harmonising regulations, there is not much effect unless the big steps continue towards EU membership. I repeat, membership is not a goal in itself but is only a means of achieving a higher goal, which is that each citizen of Serbia lives as every EU citizen with all European rights and obligations, with European values and European living standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1703	The word comes from MP Branko Ruzic, president of the SPS parliamentary group. After that, MP Pastor Balint, MP group of minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1704	Dear Presidency, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this item of the agenda has caused great interest for a number of days and months, and for God's sakes, years in Serbia. What is very important is that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is not more politicised than is necessary and that as a serious state, we understand it in a way that meets above all and reflects the preservation of our country's state and national interest. What is also a fact, it is that this document was done for three years, if I am not mistaken, at a time when political Serbia and Serbia generally went through a turbulent period, but also at a time when the SPS did not participate in the work on this document. Exceptionally, experts from the resolution ministries who are competent to deal with this topic and what followed in paraphrasing this agreement I think we all knew about the announcements and then what would happen about the wishes and ambitions of Albanian political representatives of the very declaration, which is, of course, illegal and illegal, so on. The independence of Kosovo and Metohija. This topic has even been used for pre-election campaign as well as for paraphrase and signing. What we can see, and I do not recall being a party involved in the work on this document, as a disadvantage, which virtually no one has mentioned or has tried to speak of, is, for example, Article 53 paragraph 5 B) which says that after the entry into force of this agreement of the daughter company of the Community's companies will have the right to acquire and enjoy property rights in real estates as well as Serbian companies, and in terms of public goods of general interest, the same rights enjoyed by Serbian companies, when these rights are necessary for the exercise of economic activity for which they are established. This, in practice, is also a legal ban, which we have in our domestic legislation, as referred to in Article 1. The 2006 Agricultural Land Act, that agricultural land owners cannot be foreign natural and legal persons for a simple reason and because of a constitutional provision under which the legal force of international contracts is greater than the legal force of national laws. I point out that the public resources of our country, agricultural land and all the resources that the state of Serbia has, in practice, in some ways, allow them to move into ownership of both foreign and natural and legal persons. As for Article 135, which is extremely important in this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it sets out the space in which the agreement itself will be applied and says that this agreement is applied, on the one hand, to the territories to which the Treaties established by the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community are applied and in accordance with the conditions laid down in those Treaties and on the territory of Serbia, on the other hand, and what is more important not to apply to Kosovo currently under international administration in accordance with the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999. This does not call into question the status of Kosovo and Metohija nor the determination, according to the Agreement, of its final position towards the same resolution, so if this agreement is in line, it calls for Resolution 1244 which is the only international legal framework defining the status of Kosovo and Metohija, the only valid international legal framework that has been brought into the Security Council of the United Nations, and we have not noticed that any new resolution has been made by the United Nations Security Council. I think that this article, 135, must also be understood as a state by means of a practical verification of the sovereignty of the Serbian state's territorial integrity with Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia's state. What is also important as a fact that we need to ask a question – is it true that more than 70% of Serbian citizens have an affirmative approach to European integration? So it is not a question of the ruling majority or minority in the opposition, but, above all, the issue of citizens' relations with this issue. The question is also, what is the alternative, with all the shortcomings that can occur, unless we wisely approach the European integration process in order to protect our comparative advantages, not only in a political sense, but, above all, in an economic sense. It is something that this government of the Republic of Serbia must work even more forward. The Socialist Party of Serbia has otherwise pledged to include one position in the proposal for a resolution on the continuity of state policy in Kosovo and Metohija, where it is said that the provisions and spirit of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, understands and accepts the provisions and the spirit of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, together with its consistency with the state policy in relation to Kosovo and the Metohija, given that Resolution 1244 guarantees the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, whose state continuity has uncontestedly taken over the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would in this case conclude that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija's status is mentioned in Article 135 of that agreement, which explicitly calls for Resolution 1244. Also, what in some ways is a fact-finding circumstance is the fact that a number of EU member states have reached out for the act of recognising Kosovo and Metohija's self-proclaimed independence. I remind you that not all Member States of the European Union have done so. If we understand and understand this Stabilisation and Association Agreement in a way that defines Kosovo and Metohija as an integral, integrated part of the state of Serbia and if we bear in mind that in political practice all members of the European Union will never reach with the act of recognition of self-proclaimed independence, in which case we can look at this problem with a certain dose of optimism in a continuous fight to preserve integrity and sovereignty. What was the alternative to a situation like this? It is that, in practice, we try to either isolate ourselves or not to be actors in this difficult game that is waiting for us and that by insisting on something, which is factually and internationally justified, we lose valuable time in further European integrations and make it impossible for Serbia and its citizens to get over the necessary political and economic stability, or socio-economic stability, to start with the realization of development projects, to try to adopt the European Union's communal assets, which is otherwise started before 2000, if you have forgotten that fact. Therefore, the use of our domestic legislation with European Union legislation, with positive practice from the European Union, cannot be something that is not welcome for the state of Serbia and its citizens. In any case, the fact is that we are about to have a committed diplomatic struggle on this political issue, but I must remind you that the only state with an international and legal subjectivity in the United Nations system is exactly the state of Serbia. By the time that fact is changed, and God will not change, there is no change in chance that tomorrow someone calls for what is written here in the Agreement, that in the region with countries that are also on the path of European integration, we must and commit ourselves to working together. Because, in the event that all the Member States of the European Union will not recognise self-proclaimed independence, in a situation where we are practically getting one valuable time, and in parallel with this, we are going to the process of European integration, and in a situation where there is neither an international and legal framework nor the political will of all relevant factors, which are, above all, members of the Security Council, to reverse the situation in one direction or another, we have a chance that, insisting on preserving territorial integrity and sovereignty, we are parallelly leading the fight and the process of European integration that should bring about a better improvement for the citizens of Serbia. All these are facts that, of course, we cannot look at black and white, about which a consensus is needed, about which fellow Jovanovic also spoke, about which it is necessary to at least have awareness or consensual awareness of what the citizens of Serbia want, if we have to share politically and upgrade ourselves on the topics that were the subject of the pre-election campaign, but this topic has won its outcome, therefore, in the election boxes on 11 May. It is therefore important to take all these elements into account and to approach this very important issue accordingly. As far as the SPS is concerned, in addition to the shortcomings that this agreement involves, not because of our work on this agreement, I remind you, but in the work of the previous governments, I must say that the SAA on this agreement and its ratification, if it comes to it, will view and understand this agreement as being in the light of this Article 135 which explicitly speaks of Resolution 1244 as the only international legal framework that regulates the status of Kosovo and Metohija and, in that sense, the political issue and any implications caused by this agreement can be left aside if this understanding of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement itself stands. What is an economic aspect, as far as customs territory is concerned, of all matters of vital importance for the state of Serbia, as regards all European standards that need to be adopted, not only, but also, to apply in our legislation, but also in all areas of social life, I don't think it can be controversial for, I'm sure, all 250 MPs sitting here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I hope that what our intensity was, and that is that this agreement is understood in a way that reflects the preservation in the political sense of the integrity and sovereignty of our country, and that was laid down as a condition when this law was proposed on the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that it will be in the end and that the Serbian Government will function in this sense, when this agreement is ratified. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote for ratification of this agreement, for the Law on the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the best interest of meeting its pre-election promise, therefore, to fight to enable a society of social justice, to fight for socio-economic stability, to fight for the realisation of vital development projects, such as Corridor 10, such as the construction of new hydrocentres, such as "The Railway of Serbia", by fulfilling our pre-election promises that we will lead to a improvement that will feel very quickly for each of our citizens, that we will achieve raising employment levels in Serbia. In that intention and led by that intensities, fulfilling its pre-election promise, MPs of the SPS-JS Group will vote for ratification of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1705	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1706	With the ovations experienced by the predecessor, I must warn that we are obliged to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly and that everyone should take care of it. So it is said here that the SPS interprets this agreement as a preservation of the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and that its provisions are interpreted so that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. Great, just accept the SRS amendment to interpret it as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, what are we asking of you? We all want this agreement to be adopted, not just this one, all agreements leading to integration, improvement, investment. Everyone wants every child in Serbia a better life in 10, 20, 100 years. We disagree on whether the European Union interprets Kosovo and Metohija as part of Serbia or not, and we agree with them. We now say, we interpret it so that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. We can interpret it any way we want, it's important how the National Assembly interprets it. Why it was difficult for the promoter, and for the SPS, to say – here, we accept the amendment of the SRS. The text of the Agreement is not touched at all, it is impossible to change it, but we are merely saying that some of its provisions are interpreted in a certain way, in a way that protects Serbia. The Democratic Party says it will use all legal and diplomatic means to defend Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. This is a remedy, this is a contract with the Member States of the European Union and the European Union, and its parliament adopts this. This is a contract in which we interpret that preserving the integrity of non-mixing in the status of Kosovo and Metohija is actually a recognition that, under Resolution 1244, this territory belongs to Serbia. So we're just saying - Europe, we accept the agreement, and here's how we interpret it! Because, publicly, all politicians in Serbia interpret it that way, except for some who have a different attitude, well, that's fine, but they're not in the majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the SPS in the campaign said this is a yellow document that means nothing -- I accept that it's a good document now. If the SRS can say that this document is acceptable to Serbia, but we have this one condition, a condition that is not difficult for you since you publicly state the same position, you just cannot adopt it at the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – it is hypocrisy. If all of us here interpret that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia -- let's send that message to Europe. An EU Member State that does not want to accept this – will not ratify this agreement. The state that wants to accept it will ratify it. As you say there are countries that have not recognised KIM independence, there are countries that will ratify the Agreement and if we write in the agreement that KIM is an integral part of Serbia's territory. Why would Spain blame us for interpreting some of the provisions of this agreement in the way that our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and in a way that Spain approves? So we're afraid of states that have recognised the independence of KIM. You said yourself that we are much more important to those who are not, it is much more important that Spain never changes its attitude, if we can already convince Germany, France and others to change their attitude. Why are you running away from it? Why don't we defend the country and the documents? Only with statements on television - we will defend the country, and as soon as a document arrives, we must not defend it. This isn't a gun, it's not a cannon, it's not a tank, it's a plane, it's a document, it's a contract, it's an international contract. Free declarations and resolutions of the National Assembly, they don't bind anyone in the West. This contract is binding, whether you accept it or not. If you don't accept it, we negotiate further to accept it. You've convinced me for a year that it's a good deal. You convince Serbia, you won the elections because you convinced Serbia that you would defend KIM by diplomatic and legal means. Here's a chance, gentlemen. The capitulation is if you won't accept the amendment and then don't expect us to vote for it, then don't expect well from European integration! You're talking about millions of euros invested in post-socialist countries. Did they take the territory? You're talking about a neighbor who got 100,000 dinars from a neighbor who killed his kid. Can you do that? No money, no money to measure the value of Kosovo's territory and Metohija! Whoever wants to defend, who wants to run the state, who wants to respect the constitution that says Kosovo and Metohija are inalienable part of Serbia's territory, must always point to that. For us, Resolution 1244 is a sign that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. Who doesn't want to sign off on how to make a deal with him? He doesn't respect us, he doesn't respect our attitude, he doesn't respect our Constitution. You want to change the Constitution? Change it first and see if it's possible for Serbian citizens. Don't wear your passwords here to keep us safe and safe. Yeah, just on one condition, we tell them what Serbia is, and they agree or not, so let's see who's our friend and who's not our friend. There is no citizen of Serbia who does not want better. And if the Russians make a union, we'll go in there, and I think it's already on the way, and that union will be progress for humanity. And that's where we're going, why don't we go? The European Union, why don't we go, but not at all cost, not kneeling, not crawling and it doesn't crawl the MPs, it doesn't crawl the Ministers, the people will crawl. On whose behalf do you decide that the people should crawl? Because on the media, you tell him this is the only salvation, the only alternative to life. That's not true. Or it's a rescue when you sell the hotel to a stranger and he shuts it down as his own country, and he gets all the supplies from abroad, and you made a good investment. That's your foreign investment. Hired 15 people and pissed off 300. You let that story go, and it'll come up on the wallpaper when you file, at least once, a government report on what you did in the previous year. At least once after DOS came to power to get a government report on what was done last year. Don't forget the fact, two important things have happened since you initialled that agreement. One is that the EU has accepted Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Say whatever you want. Solana did not come as a representative of Spain to Pristina to congratulate independence, but as an EU representative. His country has not recognised independence. The other thing is Eulex. The EU is going completely towards the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, and you say it guarantees us that it will not interfere in status. She interfered with the status, and because she interfered, we have to adopt one provision. We do not tell them, in this agreement, in Article 135 -- that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia. No, we say we just interpret it that way and don't use the story as an argument that the agreement does not apply to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. It doesn't apply, we don't touch it while it's under the protection of the UN, but it goes under the Eulex. Can we not worry about Kosovo and the Metohija that the EU is beginning to care about? Do we have a contract with the EU? Did the EU go before the Security Council to get a new resolution? It's not a kidnapping. History is a responsibility to all of us. It says there we're against the Agreement. We didn't. Here you go, Mr. Djelic, accept the amendment, we'll finish the story in half an hour, it will last as short as it will for an arrangement with Russia, because the Russian does not question whether Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. If they had recognised Kosovo's independence, I would have asked you to interpret the provision with them. Of course, there's no friend who's stealing our territory. So please, when you speak, you can do it for your performances, so that it stays somewhere in the book, but everything is read, everything is known in this country and knows it least, the EU says that Kosovo and Metohija are not part of Serbia, cautiously with them. The snake's poison is not caressed, but carefully and you know it very well. Don't convince us, we're not that small. Say you can't run the state any other way, and I agree, if we don't get this agreement we're not able to run the country, that's a good principle. But to convince us that you can't run the state without this, that this is a rescue for the state, that's not true. Maybe the non-signature would take you out of power, where you're lucky, and this is how you got Serbia into dictatorship and you go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Your representatives write the constitution of the Vojvodina, prepare the state in Vojvodina, and you pretend nothing happens. So please, don't put out hypocritical words here that offend the dignity of the congregation. It does not guarantee this agreement that Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia, but if we write it in this law, just as another member, so we say this is an interpretation that preserving integrity, that every country has the right to its borders, we interpret this in accordance with Resolution 1244, it doesn't hurt, the preservation of the country is that. They won't respect? Then let the Assembly say whether it may be able to accept an agreement in which the EU will not guarantee that Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia, but then the cards will be opened, things will be clear and clear. You now convince us that the EU has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence and can sign this. No, let's ask the EU by our law if it has recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. If he says - we do not accept this law of yours, since Kosovo and Metohija are not your territory, ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Assembly to see what most people think about it, in front of the people in the referendum to see what the majority thinks about it. And if we here with 84 MPs take the risk that we have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, because, so many votes you need, 64 votes you need to lose Kosovo and Metohija -- don't, not 64 lives. But 64 votes do not lose Kosovo and Metohija and those MPs who are not interested in it at all. So please once again, defend this country, show some wisdom. Don't make us crawl in front of an alien, go straight. Let 200 MPs of the National Assembly stand behind you, so that when your people go to Brussels, 200 MPs stand behind them, not some grouped majority, most of whom are held by those who are ministers, and not parties, not ideologies. This is not the ideology of some parties who will vote in favour of the Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1707	Thank you. The word is Mr. Pastor Balint, president of the Group of Minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1708	Dear Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the SVM and all MPs from the Minority Group will vote to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs of the EU and Serbia. The ratification of the SAA is the second step of the Republic of Serbia along the European integration path, but it is the first major formal step towards institutionalising the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the EU. Before carrying out the evaluations, I would like to talk a little bit about the chronology of our EU accession and the so far important stations on the way to the EU. I think this is gonna be educational. On October 10th 2005, negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia began. After the second round of negotiations, the European Commission decided to suspend accession talks, then Serbia-Montenegro. On 13 June 2006, the negotiations continued, the renewed negotiations lasted three months, and on 10 September 2007, the Serbian and EU delegations agreed in Brussels the text of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The agreement was initialled in Brussels on 7 November last year and signed in Luxembourg on 29 April. From this small chronology, we can see that the negotiations lasted two and a half years, with a one-year break due to our country's lack of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. From the initialisation of the Agreement in Brussels to the ratification of the Agreement in the National Assembly will be almost a year. It says it could have been faster and it took a lot faster. I said earlier that ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is a second step on the way to the EU. The first step is the feasibility study to conclude Stabilisation and Association negotiations on 25 April 2005, and this is the second step. However, there is, according to our views, a zero step on the way to the EU and I would like to talk a little bit about this zero step. What we call a zero step by the Republic of Serbia on its way to the EU – this step is the Resolution on EU accession. The resolution was voted largely in the National Assembly on 13 October 2004 and I would like to quote several provisions in this resolution on EU accession. This high house brought the resolution, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia confirms that the accelerated entry of the Republic of Serbia into full EU membership and accession to the Partnership for Peace is a strategic and national goal. The National Assembly is expressing its full readiness to meet all the necessary preconditions needed to speed up EU integration. The National Assembly expresses its full readiness to meet all international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and strongly supports the view that all persons suspected of crimes committed during armed conflicts, between 1991 and 2000, on the territory of the former SFRY, the economy of justice, in line with positive regulations and international obligations. The National Assembly undertakes that the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Serbia with the EU legal assets will be given priority in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, including the introduction of specific procedures to improve the efficiency of the process. The National Assembly expects the government of the Republic of Serbia to inform the National Assembly of the planned and fulfilled commitments once every three months and for the implementation of all the programmes and other activities necessary to speed up the accession process. The National Assembly is asking the government of the Republic of Serbia to draw up a national strategy for Serbia's EU accession as soon as possible. "These were quotes from the EU's EU Accession Resolution, which was adopted on 13 October 2004 in this esteemed home, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What happened to all this stuff I quoted from this resolution? Unfortunately, almost nothing was realized by all of this, which was our obligation, which was both the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is very bad, because inaction questioned what it said in the Resolution – that Serbia's EU accession is a strategic state and national goal. That is why we in the SVM are convinced that we should and will need much faster these processes to lead, which at the end of this time will lead us to the EU threshold, which will lead us into the EU. What is specifically done by all this that is written in the Resolution? The national programme for EU integration has been developed by the government and that is very good, but I would like to say that there are several mistakes in the National Programme and I hope that these mistakes will be corrected in the Serbia's EU accession strategy. I will give two examples from the sphere of the rights of members of the national minorities. For example. On page 76, it says that in municipal courts in Temerin and Vrbas, all employees speak Hungarian. That's just not true. Second case, it says on page 76. Serbia's national EU accession strategies, to make up 3.9% of the population in the AP Vojvodina Hungarians. According to the latest census, Hungary has 14.28% in the Vojvodina territory and I hope that such errors are no longer in the programme, and that these mistakes will not be repeated in the National Strategy. Following the chronology and listing of the so far important cells on the way to the EU, I would also like to make valuable assessments, as well as why the Group of Minority MPs and SVM MPs support ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. First of all, because of the accession objectives, and these objectives are set out in Article 1. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. It says it is establishing accession for strengthening democracy and the rule of law, for stabilising the region, for creating a framework for political dialogue, for supporting Serbia's efforts to develop economic and international co-operation and through harmonising its legislation, for the need to end transition to a functional market economy in Serbia and for the gradual creation of a free trade zone and fostering regional co-operation. These objectives are undeniable for SVM and we certainly support these objectives. In addition, we can see from the Agreement that they will be traded under easier conditions with the EU, without customs duties and quantitative restrictions, after the entry into force of the Agreement. We also see that we provide not only free flow of goods, but also workers. A free trade zone is gradually established, while at the same time it does not exclude the preservation and establishment of customs unions of the free trade zone. So we're not losing anything in that sense. The protection of geographical indications and our trade marks and our geographical indications on the territory of the EU as a whole shall be ensured. It contributes to the abolition of state monopoly. Serbian companies, with the entry into force of this agreement, will be able to access procedures for the granting of public contracts in the Community and envision co-operation in a number of areas, from harmonisation of rules to political dialogue and financial co-operation between Serbia and the EU. All important areas of trade are covered through education, to social protection. Special attention is given to the areas of justice and home affairs, harmonisation of legislation, sustainable development, poverty reduction and environmental protection, which is good. The community and Serbia will establish close co-operation, regional co-operation and the development of good neighbourly relations, and that is also one of the main objectives of the Agreement. Bilateral agreements will be concluded within two years of the entry into force of the Agreement, a condition for further development of relations between Serbia and the EU. What is of first-class importance to us – it is the depreciation of European values in Serbia. We know that it should be one process, that it will not go overnight, but that is what we all need to work together, both Parliament and government and all parties currently parliamentary. I have little to say about pre-accession funds. A little less than a billion euros will be given to Serbia over the next five years under the agreement, which is good. So a billion and a half euros. For example, in the same period in Hungary, which is a full member of the EU, it receives 22.4 billion euros for development from the EU. So, Serbia gets a billion and a half, Hungary almost 22.5 billion euros and that's one significant difference, that's one argument to ratify this agreement. Regionalisation of the state is also necessary. The establishment of statistical regions will be a prerequisite for the possibility of using the richest funds for EU members, i.e. cohesion and regional development funds. It's also very important, and that's why we need to regionalize the country. No one is making a state in the country, no one is creating Vojvodina with the attributes of the state, but simply Serbia needs to be regionalized. It is one of the preconditions for joining the EU, but we should not do it for the EU, we should not do it for twenty seven, but we should do it for Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to say a little more about the realities, preconditions and tasks of Serbia on their way to the EU. We have repeatedly warned from this pay phone that it must not be bid on dates, absolutely unrealistic dates should not be mentioned, as this damages Serbia and damages Serbian citizens. I must also warn that the European Council's conclusion, in December 2006, insists on Copenhagen criteria and is said to be unable to take the next step in European integration until previously signed agreements come into force. In this context, we must all know that negotiations on EU membership cannot begin until the Stabilisation and Association Agreement comes into force, and that takes 29 ratifications, total, and it will most likely take about two years. The accession will be carried out gradually and will be fully achieved over a transitional period of no more than six years. So it's not that we're at the EU gates. Unfortunately, very, very much we still need to work for the sake of becoming a member of the EU. I'd also like to mention one piece of information. Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic signed the SAA on 13 December 1990 and became full members of the EU on 1 May 2004. From this we can see that it is unrealistic for Serbia to be in the EU, for example, in four years' time, but everything we need to do for Serbia to be a full member of the EU as soon as possible. And in order for that to happen, we need to meet the political and legal preconditions. The SVM advocates that all these conditions be met as soon as possible. As far as political conditions are concerned, we all know, the political condition is Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic in The Hague. On behalf of the SVM, I must say from this pay phone that we hope that this will happen by the end of this year at the latest, because it is not possible and it is not good that we, seven and a half million Serbian citizens, are the hostages of two people. Besides, we need to meet legal requirements. We need to harmonize our legal system with the EU's legal system, and that means, ladies and gentlemen, that this parliament should adopt together with the Government about 150,000 pages of regulations. This should not only be done by Parliament, because there are sublegal acts, but much of the work needs to be done by the National Assembly. As a result, there is a great responsibility at this meeting of the National Assembly. When we talk about harmonisation, we also listened last year that the Assembly would adopt about 40 laws necessary for Serbia's White Schengen List and EU accession. Unfortunately, this parliament has done very little and therefore should be an atmosphere of work. The government needs much, much faster to pass the draft laws to Parliament in order to speed up this legislative work in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because as far as I know, no parliamentary party says it is against the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the EU. That is why we are in favour of accelerated harmonisation, of meeting political and legal conditions, of accepting a system of values, of European values, and we hope that, in line with the National Assembly resolution on joining the European Union in October 2004, Serbia's accession to the European Union will indeed be a first-class national and state goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1709	Thank you. Since we don't have enough time for the next speaker, and that's Mr. Velimir Ilic, I'm taking a break. We'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. I ask that at 14.30, the heads of the parliamentary groups come to an agreement on further work. [[After break – 15,15]] The word has the president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure today to talk about this big problem we're discussing, but I'm sorry that Mr. Djelic is not here, who was Deputy Prime Minister when all this was concluded, negotiated, signed, and there is no one from the government. When we look at the agreement, which is so talked about today, it was about prosperity, just to sign, or ratify, and here, now, it is said again after the ratification of the Agreement in Parliament, that everything will be honey and milk, that Serbia will be without a problem, that investments will arrive, that two billion euros will come annually to Serbia. I doubt that. You know, we'd all be looking forward to it, both the position and the opposition. Promises are made big. They don't meet well, time passes. We're very divided. Someone has divided us, and certain media are pushing for European and anti-European forces, into an advanced European group and one extremely backward, which is certainly not for the European Union. We are all for the European Union and there is no dilemma. We are an integral part of Europe. Every Serbian citizen doesn't give a shit when he looks at those billboards we've seen -- "Let's win Europe together." Today when I listened to Mr. Djelic, I felt for a moment like I was at a game, so we say, "Bravo, let's go, we're going to beat them, we're going to vote, we're going to chase!" That's not it. It's very difficult for me to say, an unserious group, namely the vice president of the government, extremely unserious, euphoric exposés, cheerleaders, full of passions, and the subject is extremely serious. To ratify something in Parliament, to stand behind it, and we don't know where we are, or what we are, or where they're taking us, we don't know where our borders are, and as long as our country is here, today in Brussels and our Prime Minister and President of the State, where is Serbia's border? We're signing an agreement, and we don't know where we are, what we are, who we are. Is Kosovo inside? They say it is, that's what our Constitution claims, but the agreement doesn't say it. The agreement says we must make good co-operation with the countries in the environment, and they have recognised Kosovo. Does this mean indirectly that we will confess later and Kosovo? The co-operation with The Hague stands, but is it the European judiciary that awaits us, that here too, on these grounds, such as the UN tribunal, which so cruelly punishes a people, punishes people who have performed certain duties, earns bread for themselves and their families, and lets terrorists go free? Is that some new form of organized justice? Is this infection going to rule us the same, and we're going to have a mob on the loose who's going to decide everything, and there's going to be some unfortunate ones we're going to step on there for some little things? I would divide Serbia at this point, and the MPs themselves, in two parts: one, irresponsible, euphoric, horny, Europe and all is resolved; and the other, extremely serious people, studio people, who ask some questions, and we are looking for answers to these questions. Whether Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, the European Union must say. That's what Kostunica and I in that government asked us to define where we are -- whether Kosovo is our component, whether we are going to the European Union with Kosovo or without Kosovo, or whether we are going to the European Union and then we will have to recognise Kosovo, which is why we are here. Thus, fairy tales about Europe presented in this way, such as Mr Djelic, are truly fairy tales, and neither children from primary school, as euphorically, in one serious parliament, where the fate of a country is resolved, where the path is routed for the next 50-100 years of Serbia, would not behave that way. I was only expecting that scan -- let's go, let's move on with the session, let's celebrate, let's ratify it, and almost, there's no need to go on, we've solved all the troubles! We'll go out to Europe for God's sakes, get loans, work, agriculture is the main one. I know that the European Union will give us agriculture - to read raspberries, blackberries, which are nine dinars, my brothers. The farmer who reads, who sows the cup has failed – to produce milk for 22 dinars, drive tractors, eagles and dig and so on. And we gave them and left the financial market, all that's profitable. They're looking for, of course, the pharmaceutical industry, and electronics, and telecommunications, and everything goes to the European Union. Is it our children's future to be tractor drivers, mushroom pickers, raspberries and blackberries? Is that where you're taking us, gentlemen, to be a protégé to the European Union? We are talking about prosperity in Bulgaria and Romania. I was there the other day, it was never worse. You can see that and make sure when you leave, the roads, the infrastructures are desperate. Bulgarians pick peppers in Serbia, buy plums. They've had enough of the European Union and come to us, who are not members, to make a little money here, to survive. Is that our destiny? That is why, as serious and responsible people, the MPs, we have asked for all of this to be defined, to be inserted into the Agreement, and then to join the European Union vertically, but as partners, as one sovereign state, a serious state that will come there, which they will appreciate and respect. If every shit in the European Union can take a piece of territory, do whatever it wants, we don't belong there. We have to define that because we make a decision for generations to come. Our grandfathers and grandfathers left us this beautiful Serbia, and where are we going with it, how and in what way? It's a nice story about NATO, but that NATO has come to Serbia without any consent, approval, permission, built a NATO base. They didn't ask us, then Serbia was a sovereign state, there was no talk of unilateral recognition, etc. They didn't stop us, people came in, built a base in a sovereign state, finished the job, set up a guard and left. Is it our destiny that anyone can do what they want here? They've made a decision, and unfortunately it's been accepted in the federal parliament, so they can use our infrastructure whenever they want and as much as they want -- they want roads, airports and everything, if they need NATO. So, we as responsible people, who think about this state of Serbia, are asking to define this and then be all for Europe, and all of Serbia will be for Europe if we define these things that are controversial. This way we don't know where they've taken us, we don't know what we're going to experience on that road, whether we're going to get lost in some abyss, and simply our destiny is extremely endangered. So today I have listened to stories here, and I am glad that national minorities speak extremely well and commendablely what will happen in Serbia. It is good that we are such a country, and to go on a European path we must be a democratic state, we cannot forbid demonstrations, shoot, kill, we must respect each other and that is the basis. So the basis of everything is democratic Serbia. We who sit on this opposition side and we have been fighters for democracy our whole life, we will continue to fight for the true democratic state of Serbia as a basis and respect national minorities and respect everything that is European criteria. Do we know that Serbs in Kosovo do not have a basic criterion of democracy, freedom of movement. People can't go to the field, send their kids to school. Did this enable this democratic Europe? We are looking for the protection of our citizens no matter where they are, and Europe needs to understand and know, and not to act this way quite irresponsiblely, because from the beginning it has started very irresponsiblely and irresponsibly, that Mr Djelic knows well. It was ugly when such an agreement was voted on by the Serbian government, boldly, brutally, violently by a small, thin majority, and I would not want it to be so in Parliament, when the current Serbian prime minister left, left the hall, left the session, and part of the ministers. Is this the path of Serbia, which is being routed for the next period, when part of the government leaves the session, goes into the hallway until that point passes? We need to get along, make a deal here and there. There is one minimum, one amendment that has submitted radicals, no matter who gave it, to define Kosovo's status in Serbia. Why don't we support that? What was wrong with the European Union saying - we respect your Constitution as a sovereign state, we respect your people. Please, Serbia with Kosovo in the European Union. That was the minimum of our terms, that's where we parted, and it was a stumbling block. As far as the economy is concerned, we don't need to talk about prosperity right away. How are your funds? It's true they're lending 150 million. If Dinkic wanted to guarantee that I could take that loan, I too was given when I was a minister. So, credit banks have – give the government guarantee, guarantee the budget that you will return, there are no problems, you can take the credit as much credit as Serbia is able. But these funds for European corridors, that's another thing. How to get money from funds, not average commercial credit lines. It's the simplest thing anyone can get. You can get that from all banks, the same terms the World Bank gives, and the EBRD, the European Investment Bank, as well as many commercial banks for large projects such as highways, etc. So there's nothing controversial about it. Investment in agriculture, I am for European loans, but their loans are unambiguous, and a large part of the grants for agriculture. Do we get these credits so our peasant does something, lively, run or commercial credits where he's going to fail on his own? So a lot of things should be defined here. Do we, by ratifying this agreement, release the responsibility of the European Union, which is very important? If we release her from responsibility and we go over it peacefully, they're satisfied, we've legalized bombings, their responsibility and everything that's been going on. Also, the position of the Serb minority in Kosovo, in our southern province, we legalized it all, put it in order and ended up with a large part of the work for them. Therefore, we are not irresponsible people and do not mention that we are anti-European-oriented. We are European-oriented, we are for democracy in Serbia, we are for economically strong Serbia, democratic, European, but strictly defined. This is our only country, we don't have a spare. Each item will be analysed a hundred times and when defined then signed and the contract ratified. Let's not play with the state in this way, let's not, no matter who it is, no matter who the arguments are, let's not give up unscheduled contracts, because tomorrow we'll have big problems, and our children, our grandchildren, will curse us for the decisions we make. The state of Serbia must define with its MPs every item. You've had cases that when the European Union signs any contract, or any of their bodies, the organ, every little thing is strictly defined, analyzed, paralysed countless times, approved and then signed. We're running, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, Now, my Djelic, you're gonna get out of here, and we're gonna stay here. You're passing through here, you can say whatever you want. Many are here passing through, Serbia is some passing station to do something, and when we stay here, we'll be wondering where we're going and what we're going to do. Therefore, I ask you to think this through and not to be offended by one group anymore, to say: they are anti-European, who votes against the Agreement. Unserious people will vote something that is not defined, unserious and irresponsible people will play with this country and show how much it means to them. Serious people, and especially our leadership in Brussels today, must understand that they are statesmen, that they represent all of us and this people, and not when they're hit by Solana on the shoulder, they're happy, we'll give you support, and you push that. And not a double story. This story must always be the same today, not one story in Brussels. As Minister, I attended many of these meetings, where they were spoken – press us a little, no problem, we will rebel a little, but it will be in the end as you say. We have to rebel a little, there's some people who vote in the election, so we'll tell them a story. No, one story, a story from Parliament is a basic story for everyone. Please think carefully about this, think about some of the amendments that have been given, let's not play with the state, don't get us euphoria, but let's be serious, because this issue is extremely serious for the state of Serbia. Let's not talk to fairy-tales – tomorrow you'll get this, everything will be easy for you. It won't be easy! We'll get the loans we have to pay back. Anything we do with credit lines, we or our descendants will return. Therefore, Europe does not give anyone anything for nothing. I didn't hear, except when some elemental accident occurred, that the German gave someone something free, French, English, especially. Let's not be children, that we think their private capital will spill so easily. They're not interested in our agreement. It's something that their politicians need that's got all this wrinkled up, done, to wash them with their people, and to stay clean, because many are now leaving these functions. But we'll be left with stains, stains, and we'll keep track of which MPs, which the government did, as well as in what way. So please, gentlemen of the government, if you're pro-European, why reject the concession? I didn't hear you build it with your own budget. Europe hasn't done that in years. What's with the gas deal? The Germans wouldn't know what they'd get if they got this kind of benefits and that kind of benefits in gas and oil supply. Why are you throwing it away? You weigh it so much? Now, my Dinkich, if you had weighd this agreement so much on joining the EU, where we would have ended, as much as you would have gotten that unfortunate gas deal, as much as you're consulting, looking for and checking it out. So let's be serious, and we'll all be much better. Don't let the fairy tales tell us. The fairy tales have long been told. There are MPs here with long experience, there are politicians in Serbia who know something and please think carefully, this is a serious question and I would ask that future discussions be very serious. This is a serious subject, not to joke, not to spit on each other, not to tell these stories. This is where some understanding came in. We realized from the opposition today that these topics were interesting and accepted, and despite the report that did not come, what the radicals were looking for, we set a deadline for this to end by the end of the week, to honor the minister who made the promise, but to remember, all the promises you make will have to be fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1712	Thank you. The word is Mr Moma Colakovic, president of the PUPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1713	President-in-Office, respected working presidency, honourable MPs, respected representatives of the government, in addition to what is said in the arguments "yes" and "no" I would like to say on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group two more reasons why our MPs will vote for both agreements. The first is that we believe that the advance, compared to the arguments that were "for" here, should be given to man, citizen, worker, peasant, pensioner, young man. No one here today has given a word about that argument. I am convinced that the arguments "for" will fertilize, if the worker works more, earns better and lives better, if the young man has a chance to work and live from his work, if the pensioner can live on his pension. There's another argument I want to make here, and above all, it's the social, material, social position of the pensioners. We are witnessing that lately, even today, all arguments concerning the better social status of pensioners and then the better material, social status of pensioners are being challenged. Only two data, over 400,000 pensioners receive pensions below 9,000 dinars, almost a million pensioners receive a pension of up to 19,000 dinars. Do the builders of all that this country has created deserve such attention? It is our pledge that they must get a different social, material and social position. They have to get more than that than they get right now. That is why I respond to Mr Jelasic's statement, the governor of the NBS, and other analysts who say that by increasing pensions by 10%, we will ruin the economy, cause inflation, etc. For this reason, we believe that it is necessary to move forward, at least one meter, towards the man, according to his position, according to the worker, towards the peasant, and towards the young man, by living better. We see a chance that these agreements make it possible. If we're gonna use it, it's up to us. The third thing I want to say is, we insist and demand that by the day of voting at least try to bring the unity of all political parties in this House, at least on this issue which is very important and fatal for the state. The last thing I want to say is, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister said, "Let's give it a chance," everything he said. I think, first of all, you should give young people, workers and pensioners a chance to live better. That is why, in the voting day, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of these two agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1714	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they have agreed to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint and single search, reported in writing, with a number of MPs, representatives of the following parliamentary groups: the SRS, the 'For European Serbia', the G17 plus, the DSS, the SPS-JS, LDP, the NS and the parliamentary group of minorities. Accordingly, I give my word to MP Riza Halimi of the parliamentary group of minorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1715	Dear Madam President, honourable representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Coalition of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley today, I will vote in favour of confirming the Stabilisation and Association Agreement despite the drastic measures that the current government is taking towards the Albanians of the Presevo Valley, because it is nevertheless the only rational option that opens the perspective for faster economic development and normal life for all citizens of this country, regardless of ethnic and religious membership. Efforts for European civilization values and engagement to meet EU standards are intensive activities that take place in all Western Balkan countries. It would be illogical if the opposite, anachronous process took place here, which would endanger the most vital interests of our society. It is a perfectly normal great interest, I hope, in most of the National Assembly, to provide our citizens with full freedom of movement, trade relief for domestic companies, increased investment activities and faster economic development, which should enable today's support for the SAA and thus speed up integration processes into European structures. However, it is equally important that the confirmation of this agreement creates an adequate political atmosphere to improve social relations, allowing for strengthening the rule of law that would ensure all human and minority rights. If integration into EU structures is our general and common interest, then it is quite clear that, in the overall process of running and meeting the criteria for EU accession, the official policy of this country must be principled, to accept the basic principles and values on which the EU is based. That is why I find it unacceptable that Serbia's current policy is inconclusive and contradictory, which persistently rejects EULEX in Kosovo, which is scheduled for the EU to take responsibility for ensuring the security of citizens and strengthening the justice system in Kosovo. If we want to join the EU, which is a normal definition, then it is natural to accept European values, not to allow for the sake of petty political interests to deepen the current confusion on this issue. Also, there is no connection to the European values of government decisions to no longer recognise diplomas from the University of Pristina, issued in UNMIK's forms and with UNMIK's seal. In fact, the government's decision, as the current minister of education presented to reporters, was made for state reasons that were not publicly presented, which neither did the legitimate representatives of Albanians in the area. I think the decision in direct conflict with UNMIK and Resolution 1244, which was introduced in 1999 by an international protectorate in Kosovo, which was previously adopted by the Kumanovski Agreement. The most inconclusive is in all of this, if the Minister of Education is correct, that when the said decision was made, the ministry's opinion on Kosovo ruled. It turns out that by forming this ministry in 2007, the state policy changed significantly not only towards UNMIK, but also by all other international factors involved in the resolution of the crisis in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja 2000 and 2001, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to other measures taken, recognised diplomas of the University of Pristina, issued in UNMIK's forms, ending drastic state discrimination against Albanians from the Presevo Valley between 1991 and 2001, which had far-reaching consequences that still cannot be corrected. In conditions in which a harsh interruption is announced through the Minister of Education, anyway a very weak, present-day process of involving Albanians in state structures, especially in conditions where this retrograde decision threatens the government to paralyze, blocks all the authorities and institutions of local self-government, and not what the minister said the other day that it was three or four candidates for a state exam, in there is time, not to worry. In this situation, however, I must be optimistic that this today's formal decision to support or confirm the Stabilisation and Association Agreement will nevertheless succeed in creating a political atmosphere on essential co-operation with the European Community and will seriously compete for EU integration. Because the example of the Presevo Valley is in favour of solving the crisis quickly with a sincere collaboration with these institutions. Any elimination of these principles brings us back to the period that we have succeeded in common, and with political entities in the Presevo Valley and with the international community, and also with the then government that has seen it, that problem is solved. Now, if you're thinking, the relaxed security zone, and then you need NATO's help, you need EU assistance, and now, we can return and revise everything that we have adopted together and question the basic principles that we have solved the crisis, I think it's the wrong policy. But in a situation where we have absolutely no other solution but to join together and accept the assistance of the international community, to be serious candidates for EU integration, and to be ready in this respect to solve minority problems, and to address a very serious and sensitive situation still present in this area, which needs a comprehensive, versatile and, I think, genuine mood to address these citizens' life problems with common forces.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1716	Mr. Pelevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1717	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia; Madam President, I must resent you for allowing certain terms that do not exist, which are geographical terms that want to be used for political purposes. There's no such thing as the Presevo Valley. It's not a geographical term, it's a political category. If we allow this to continue to be repeated and, as I understand it, NATO and the EU are being called upon in this so-called. His 'presevo Valley' will then call it tomorrow the "Eastern Kosovo" gentleman, as most Shipara in the area calls that part of Serbia, which is south of central Serbia and no Presevo Valley. So I ask you to continue to warn the MPs who abuse the pay phone and promote some quasi-political categories.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1718	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Radoslav Mojsilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I would like to ask that future MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular the president of the Assembly, to warn the MPs of the national minorities not to use such terms and not to distribute for this speaker Serbia using the term "presevo Valley". Presevo is located in the Pcinj County, where I come from, and the centre of the Pcinj County is in Vranj, and that is where we should put the point. When Mr. Halimi returned to sit in his parliamentary bench, he communicated with Ambassador Pastor and literally said, "From now on I will use the other term, not the valley, but as it was shortened, "the province." You will never get it, as Kosovo will never be independent! When I have already answered the word, I cannot help but look back at what Mr Djelic said in the opening presentation, and it is about bringing foreign investors in order to improve the conditions of production in the textile industry in Vranj, Leskovec, so he also mentioned Ivanjic. Here, on behalf of all Vranjanjans and Vranjanci, I ask that more Mr. Djelic and Mr. Dinkic do not bring foreign investors because they have already brought one, the company is called "Alena", a British firm. They were given from the National Investment Plan six million euros in grants to build a factory and employ three thousand workers. So, for each worker, two thousand euros each. The town of Vranje gave them the best location. They paid that location 500,000 euros and got a million and a half euros for it. After obtaining a permit to build a factory, they also received a second million-and-a-half-euro tranche. There it is, the factory was built up to a certain level and stopped building. At this point, the performer is owed a million and 200,000 euros. No employee is employed. Mr. Janis Savas, owner of "Alena", disappeared from Serbia. Representatives of the agency found him in London and asked him what would become of further investment in the construction of the Zamber factory, and he said – ask Dinkic. I was looking on the website if there are "Alena" or "Zamber" as some textile company -- they're not even on a map of companies in Great Britain, they're already some company registration agency, so they're probably in agreement with Mr Dinkic and they formed this company "Zamber" to steal citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1720	Thank you. He's got his word on Riz Halima.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1721	Thank you. Only to give explanations to those who are not guided. At first, I said I was a representative of the 'Albanian Valley Coalition', which is the official name of our electoral list that RIK accepted. I don't know what's going on here. Do you need any further explanations? Then, if it's a geographical concept, if there's any problem with geography or language terms, you've probably come across the term Presevo cauldron, but come on, I'm not going to go into language shades -- boilers and valleys, but mostly, I agree as soon as the electoral list has a political connotation. Because if there is no policy at all, why would this Parliament exist? Let's keep seeing here. The incursion on how to expose the MPs of the national minorities, that someone here was disturbed, I think there were a lot of very serious things in one and the other discussion, which are seriously represented here and are looking for serious solutions. The minorities, as you can see, although half of us didn't vote and didn't want to get involved in the work of this House, but let's respect that half of us who decided to work with you on these issues, and not to mock and ignore the MP, not just you, this is the most harmless thing, the current authorities do. This is done by the government, it makes very important decisions on the lives of citizens on the ground, and it does not consult these legitimate representatives, or the presidents of municipalities, or MPs in this House. This is a serious problem that needs to be discussed properly if we really and essentially want to join the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1722	Mr. Pelevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I don't mind the gentleman calling his party whatever he wants his election list, let him call it Martian, I don't have any doubts about it at all, but don't let part of Serbia, southern Serbia, Bujanovac, Medvedje and Presevo call it the Presevo Valley, because it doesn't exist. If we let him call it that today, I will repeat, tomorrow he will say 'Eastern Kosovo', and that is what his countrymen mostly think in that Pcinj County that belongs to the municipalities of whose centre Vranje is, as my colleague said earlier. Therefore, it's not a geographical concept, you abuse it as a political category of Shipara from southern Serbia, and you have called on NATO in your speech. Nothing will help you, neither NATO nor the European Union, that part of Serbia will never be Shipar but will be part of Serbia and all citizens living there, both Shipara and Serbs and all others living in the area. I want all citizens of southern Serbia to be completely equal, but you don't want it, you've shown your separatism many times so far, sir. That is why we will not allow the use of the term Presevo Valley, because you are using it for political, separatist purposes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1724	Why you? You're re-advertising the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will now address this red and yellow part of the light coalition – if you continue this way, you are in danger of being swallowed by the green part of your coalition's scoreboard.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1726	The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1727	God, the citizens of Serbia, is helping! After this, indeed, may God help us. Finally, after a semi-annual ride of good faith and patience for all of you, this famous SAA, which, in the manner of the electric rabbit, has, on its behalf and on behalf of this light coalition, appointed little God Djelic, on Tuesday, April 29, to the general joy and joy of the person in the role of the president, and the recent future exhibit in Palma's museum of wax figures. Maybe that person doesn't like Ceca, Seka leaves him indifferent, I guess because she pleaded as his Bosnian, but that's why she likes to be president and prime minister, president of this infrastructure council, just isn't the fourth face of the Holy Three yet. If they bring him the North, he might share his piece of function with her, so let's say he declares her an adviser for European integration. This is the only partnership he knows about, judging from how he defended Kosovo and Metohija in the Security Council on June 21st, not by force, not by mentioning that the Eulex mission occupied our southern province, to the general astonishment of our citizens, but also by Russian partners, who can't really be more Serbs than we are. After all, Kosovo and Metohija as a cause, in fact, the SAA as a visible cause were and were the reason for the previous government to fall apart, in which New Serbia and DSS ministers did not vote for such a formulated SAA. To make things clearer, Mr. Djelic and his "Dizniland team" were used by fraud, only to leave and sign the SAA on April 29th. They were asked by the Serbian government to grant travel to discuss visa agreements, of course, and approval for a "falcon" plane later. Params of you, Serbian citizens, Mr Djelic and this secret group, God of Cvrzice, have gone and signed an agreement, which at the moment is nothing more than recognition of Kosovo's independence. It's easy for the people to call God Cannabis funny to sign anything. He'd be the signator of a petition to legalize easy gay marriages, he doesn't care, he's here in transit. But, as people who, in practice, have failed and started the process of European integration, where Serbia would be a place rather than in Europe, we are not suddenly, either from New Serbia, NIDSS, or radicals, crazy and become anti-European, we are only responsible, or bearers of responsible national and state policies. Let me remind you, as parties formed by the two Serbian governments, from 2004 to 2007 and from 2007 to 2008, as parties that gave the prime minister and a number of ministers in significant resolutions, New Serbia and the DSS have also invested both knowledge and energy and great effort in Serbia's European integration. During this particular period, activities of crucial importance for this stabilisation and accession process were also initiated. A large national strategy for accession and accession to the European Union in 2005, a large number of laws, consistent with European standards, and a positive Implementation Study, followed by negotiations on the completion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, were adopted and the agreement itself was initialled after their completion. It is clear from all of this that we are no anti-European force of chaos and madness. Where would Serbia, as the cradles of European civilization, be a place? On Jupiter? Of course he's in Europe. We are neither against the Co-operation and Association Agreement, but not at the moment when there is a real change in circumstances. As you know, during the period between initialling and ratification 21 of the 27 countries of the European Union, the so-called Kosovo's independence, two after this shameful signature of God. Recognising Kosovo and Metohija's independence, in fact, has been openly violated by a parafided SAA and has been fraudly offered to sign a fundamentally different act than the previously agreed one. Since 14 December, the European Union has practically made a gesture of direct recognition of Kosovo. In other words, as the European Union is building a NATO state in part of Serbia's territory, Serbia's accession to the Union is not possible until the Kosovo and Metohija issue is clarified. Moreover, by accepting Martti Ahtisaari's plan and sending the Eulex mission, which Tadic will not say anything, the European Union has violated its founding agreement mentioning the integrity of the border. When the European Union begins the process of stabilising and joining Kosovo and Metohija, it will be the final act of recognising independence. In that sense, according to Dr Vojislav Kostunica, the life of the Agreement is the death of Serbia. With all due respect to Mr. Boza Cannabis, Palma, various masters of European sciences and similar persons, Vojislav Kostunica is a doctor of law and professor, and Slobodan Samardzic professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, they do not bring out their personal impressions, but facts and legally justified knowledge. Such an SAA is a comprehensively harmful contract, contrary to the national legal order, and in particular Article 194. Serbia's constitution, which stipulates that certified international contracts should not be contrary to the Constitution. The worse we are than the Germans whose parliament has ratified the Lisbon Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, but it will not come into force until the Constitutional Court has assessed that it is in accordance with German laws. It turns out that it is possible to sell and donate a whole or part of the territory, leave and sign the capitulation, give up economic and political freedom, all with the decision of this new Eurosluger government, the majority approval of the light coalition and approval of the person as president. It may be possible to temporarily ideologically and legally cloud the tracks, but the delinquent remains, and everyone who supports this shameful Serbian signature, that is, the SAA, will bear historical responsibility. They actually gradually give legitimacy, legalize legal violence, kidnapping of a piece of territory. Our people say well – save me God of friends, and I will take care of my enemies. Old, good Ahtisaari turns out to be a little baby for the current president, who seems to have fallen out of the "We're sorry, we're very sorry" series, so he's slowly preparing us for good neighbourly relations with independent Kosovo. That that's true also tells a recent statement by this V.D. Prime Minister Cvetkovic, where Serbia should participate in the reconfiguration of UNMIK and the deployment of Eulex, as well as support the Security Council Resolution on the establishment of the EULEX mission in Kosovo. A year ago, Prime Minister Kostunica fought to reject Ahtisaari's plan, and now he accepts the V.D. Cvetkovic, actually the one who raises three fingers at the Olympics, and he's got a spike behind his hand. But that's not the worst either. Come on, what we're helping to do is get rid of us, kidnap Kosovo, and then, what the hell, Vojvodina, Sandzak, so that the whole of Serbia can fit into a phone booth, it would turn us into an economic slave and naked workforce that has visas, but with them can only wipe out the background. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement and following the interim agreement on the application of the SAA, the short-term SAA and the PST, sounds very good, although it sounds like some insecticide, in fact, is a fertilizer for the Serb plant. Europe did not have dinner, so it will now receive a new papacy in Serbia. The SAA and PST, as an economic political act, are the basis for Serbia's colonisation through the creation of conditions of administration, space, infrastructure and people's standards of the metropolis and multinational companies for smooth exploitation and profit-gathering. It justifies economic and financial dependence, distribution and assimilation of large public systems and free flow of goods and capital within the European Union, while accepting the unlimited possibility of business housing. This is a member of the 52nd PST, one-sided purchase of public goods, good from general interest, natural wealth to foreign societies, as well as real estate to foreign citizens in Serbia. Am I paranoid if I see in this the danger of further waste of property and space from territorially ambitious minorities and hostile neighbours? Am I paranoid that in Article 32, which provides for unlimited imports of agricultural products into Serbia with the power of the European Union and the unilateral suspension of exports from Serbia, I see an important imbalance of the parties in which it is our Serbian country that can export the spike and import anything that crawls, terminals and flies. Speaking of flying, article 55 shares Serbia's airspace in the common European and internal local, watch out, all without Kosovo and Metohija. This loss of economic freedom is a real basis for the complete political dependence leading to the loss of state subjectivity, and by the loss of its state and sovereignty, the people surrender their right to self-determination and become a minority in the multinational European Union. The process of decommissioning and ending the former SFRY so that Serbs become a minority in their territory ends with the re-suscitation of vasal entities in the regional European Union state, as a subsystem of a united Western state to rule the world. I'm afraid it's not science fiction or paranoia, because like you said to some people here, my favorite Kissinger, being paranoid doesn't mean they're not working on my head.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1728	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1729	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 194, so I would ask that you do not include this time in my discussion, because as far as I am aware of the session of the National Assembly, none of the representatives of the Government attend. Now, Madam President, we have no conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Let us not then listen to comments as representatives of the National Assembly obstruct the work, make it impossible for one such important document to be voted when none of the officials, members of the Government, and with all respect to assistants and officials, only members and prime ministers can represent the government during the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask you, Madam President, to take action, but I repeat once again, we do not have the conditions for the work of Parliament at this moment, because none of the representatives of the Government has granted us their presence in the debate on the most important document, and that is a million times repeated from the mouth of the government's spokeswoman, who should bring this national parliament. I ask you to answer me, so that we may proceed, or we may not continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1730	I am informed that Mr. Minister, or Deputy Prime Minister Djelic, is on the Committee that is considering budget rebalancing and that he will be here any minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1731	The Committee on Budget Rebalancing could have been moved in time after 1800 hours. It seems to me that this is much more important than the meeting of that committee. I only wanted to publicly show the government's relationship to Parliament and to something that is extremely important for Serbia's future. As DHSS MP, I would like to say that the ratification of this agreement has no alternative for us and that the European future, the European path, European integration, European standards, is something that has created DHSS. The life of citizens of Europe, a Europe that erases borders, is the only way this country and its citizens can and should go. It seems to me that Serbia is tragically late on that road. One reason for this delay is that political elites in the time behind us did not understand the necessity for Serbia to become a sovereign state. Guided by some idea of Yugoslavism, they constantly laminated over the desire to continue the idea as long as possible, but Serbia has become a sovereign and internationally recognised state only in the last few years. Another limiting factor is that Serbia is not fully prepared to approach meeting its international obligations due to the tragic legacy of the past today. One of those obligations is also a commitment to The Hague tribunal, no matter what they think of it. One more thing, I'm afraid the ratification of this agreement is merely a form. A much bigger problem is content, a much bigger problem is what will be the content of what requires access to European integration, institutions, human rights, corruption, crime, nepotism, if you want hate speech. Here we've been listening to curses, here at the rally of the opposition killing people, here the MPs are getting beat up, it's far from the content of something that represents the standard of Europe, and there's going to be a problem. To overcome this problem, there must be a way to reach a consensus between leading political actors in these areas. In the end, it was about the Deputy Prime Minister who, unfortunately, isn't here, but we have to be honest with the citizens, so let's say when we're really going to be a candidate. It's not worth living on false promises. Come on, as the Deputy Prime Minister says, let's say when Serbia will indeed be a candidate for a member of the European Union, let's tell the citizens of Serbia when they will really be able to travel to Europe without a visa. An unprecedented paradox of the visa story. We're so incompetent, and it falls to the expense of the current government, we can't even make passports. To get a visa, you have to have a passport. I'm pretty much traveling, and they keep looking at me at the borders, they roll over, I'm wearing a passport from the SR of Yugoslavia, pre-country. It only causes dilemmas and doubt. Passports were promised in March of this year, and then the Deputy Prime Minister, the Peacekeeper, handed out 50 passports for 50 of the youngest, most promising citizens. And then after a while, we saw that, you know, the dots don't work, the passports don't work. Then, the new 50, again, was shared by the Chief of Public Security to some of the well-deserved citizens. So you can't go to Europe, so let's face reality and say honestly when we're really going to become candidates for members of the European Union, because that's our only alternative and that's our only future.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1732	According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, vice president, reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, you invited us yesterday at the beginning of the working day, in the follow-up of a session that was called in July, to inform who you invited next to the government's authorised representative to attend the session in accordance with Article 88. Of all the faces listed, I looked at the synopsis again, I only recognize Miss Xenia Milivojevic, these other faces I don't know who they are. I don't know the lady, nor the gentleman, but they may be the ones numbered in order as you have written, for me, unaffiliated faces, although they are in the so-called sector. European integration, but with respect to your way of working, in addition to what we said in July, it is not necessary to invite these other persons besides the authorised representative of the capital work, Bozidar Djelic, whom he today said was his work, to invite these other persons, it is unacceptable for us now that he is not in the hall. You have seen that we have not responded, and now the colleague Batic mentioned it, that is, at the beginning of his presentation, has warned that we are practically working in violation of the Rules of Procedure, because there is no authorised representative of the government. And I really wouldn't have called if you hadn't, in your manner, told us where he is right now. When you said there was a budget rebalancing committee, I looked and saw that Mrs Tabakovic was in the O.R., and she told me from the bench that it was the government's Committee on Budgets and Finance. It is amazing for us that today at 1600 hours, Bozidar Djelic leaves the National Assembly session to which he came as an authorised representative of the government, told us about his capital work, we are now presenting our opinion and harmfulness, first of all, for the state and national interest, which is the kidnapping of Kosovo and Metohija from the state composition of Serbia, this agreement, which we will not vote on unless the amendment submitted by Mr Tomislav Nikolic is accepted. And now we need to guess what he's doing, how he's going to get the money he promised the pensioners for this one-time aid, or an increase of 10%. First, you need to tell us every time, and stick to that principle, because we warned you about it in July of the month, remember that he was twice late, all of his associates who were later away came in, he came out of the restaurant, that he had other intentions and that he was going to, in fact, humiliate the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if you support this unnatural government, as we call it, most Serbian citizens, you are convinced that what is done is right. You are convinced that this agreement, which is extremely harmful and which will cost generations ahead of us, above all, of what is invaluable and does not measure any arrangements, nor quasi-economic contracts, which is such a way of treating Kosovo and Metohija by the European Union, you are now ready to make peace with the fact that it has humiliated us, or you, first of all, because you support it, Bozidar Djelic. Then see what you serve, and what the people call it, as those who blindly fulfill all that those who bring them to power are called. What are you, mats? Are you Members of the People? Is Bozidar Djelic first selected on your list ''for so-called '. The European Serbia, and you voted him Deputy Prime Minister? He now does what he wants, does not come to the most legislative body because Cvetkovic invited him to the Committee on Budget and Finance of the Republic of Serbia to vote on that committee to increase his pension by another eight or nine thousand, and 90% among pensioners in Serbia, the pension will increase by 600-700 dinars. Right? And then that's justice, and that's okay. And I'm just wondering where you're gonna get the money for that increase, where you're going for the bypass, if that's on the agenda of the current current current budget and finance committee. Either you broadcast securities of value or you take credits, which is your famous manners, knock Jelasic on the door, take a loan from the National Bank, or you take it off the NIP, we'll talk about it when it comes. I didn't think when I entered the hall here at 3:07 p.m., with some delay from the beginning of work, that Bozidar Djelic had gone to a 5-hectare field near Nis. Why do I mention this place to you, and why do I mention that field to you? Because he spoke today about how the Stabilisation and Association Agreement from the economic aspect of the future is, above all, for Serbian farmers. And a few days ago, on state television there was a contribution, they took pictures of a young man and his family, who was valuable and hardworking, about the age of Djelic, who had never been in the field, never planted anything, nor picked up, that man and his family grew about 50 tons of cabbage that he had to earn, because Djelic, like this government, and the previous one, did not allow him to sell the cabbage on the market at a real price, because he was four or five dinars, and last year he was 30. Let us now explain Božidar Djelic, when he returns, how does he think he further improves agricultural production? If that's what he thinks he's been doing, as he's been doing, kidnapping and robbing these eight years since he came to Serbia, he better not go back to the National Assembly building anymore, because we know it's his only intention. Let the President of the Assembly, please, Mrs Dejanovic, explain to us why you allowed him to play this way with our patience, first of all, with our will today, expressed after your statement or information that you received, that by the end of the week, let's see and that miracle, the MUP will give information about the murder of Ranko Panic and everything that happened at the Serbia's freedom rally. Since we've already been so correct, both Mr Nikolic and Todorovic and at consultations with you that you've organised, nicely you interrupt the session, ask for him to return or continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, and then to question him in what way he thinks he's providing that money. We know it's not from real sources, because the peasant can't sell what he's producing, so he doesn't pay taxes to the state, nor to fill the state's register. After all, we here, among these wonderful and honorable people, Serbian radicals, have colleagues who are doctors and masters of science, such as Mr. Zivanovic and others, who know how difficult it is in the country, how hard it is to earn every dinar and how the peasant is struggling today. About pensioners not to talk, because I have an example in my family. If Djelic is gone, and he is, to increase Krkobic and his socialist pension by nine or ten thousand, he is better off not coming back to the Assembly Hall, because only then is he waiting, first of all, for our argument and questions about everything he has not given us the answer to today. And he was obliged, because we started a debate on this agenda point, he should respect the MPs, all the colleagues who have counterarguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1734	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, although there is no business explicit reason for me to take a break at this time. And if I were to invite Mr. Secretary to join us in public, I'd give him a 15-minute break and invite him to come. [[After breaks – 16,40]] We're continuing our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1736	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, excuse me, Mr. Vice President, I think you owe one apology to the MPs and citizens of Serbia, because this seems to me to be the most difficult job members of the government have today, not any other job. I spoke on behalf of the DHSS earlier on about the necessity of ratification of this agreement, for the sake of Serbia's European future and the perspective of its citizens. I spoke, among other things, and I'm sorry that you weren't there at the time, so I'll just repeat briefly, that our political elites had no vision that would allow a faster path to European integration, and part of that vision was for Serbia to become a sovereign and independent state. Neither did you, Mr. Vice President, had that vision, you went to Montenegro to convince Montenegrins there, to give them lessons to stay in the state community of Serbia-Montenegro, in a project that had been condemned in advance. Montenegro signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement five years ago. And now several issues relating not only to the Agreement, but to something that should represent the implications of the agreement, among other things, to something that is very important for the citizens of Serbia, which is a white Schengen list, i.e. the possibility of travel to EU countries without a visa. Today you presented a lapus, or you told the truth, that Croatia was on the white Schengen list before the signing of the Association and Stabilisation Agreement, and its citizens could travel to EU countries. Here is the question, for which the Government is responsible and the previous and partly present, which is, what are the visas worth to us if we don't have a passport. Passports were promised for March of this year, now September. You gave 204 passports to our young, prospective citizens a few months ago and it turns out they're technically not right. So for the second time, for the first time, the passports were handed to 50 people, and I see that you were somewhere in the end, you were uncomfortable, it was done by the Chief of Public Security, so I don't know if for the first time we're going to hand over new passports, and we're reading in the paper that these biometric passports are now the subject of some counterfeits, etc. etc. And then we read further that 20,000 passports were prepared. Mr. Vice President, correct me if the news I'm following in the media isn't true, it's been printed 20,000. How do you think that meets the needs of Serbian citizens? Are these some collective passports, on every passport of 1,000 citizens? So, come on, as you say, let's honestly tell the citizens of Serbia when they're going to be on the white Schengen list, not to be fairy tales and colorful lies. Because when you say that Serbia will be a candidate by the end of the year, I look forward to it, every citizen of Serbia is looking forward to it, and then an EU official, Olli Rehn, or someone else, appears and says, perhaps, from half next year. It's not worth sneaking around on false promises. God forbid it's tomorrow. I'm very uncomfortable with the SRJ passport being searched at every border, the previous state. One more thing, Mr. Djelic, our official letter is Cyrillic and it's nice that it's on the passport, but nobody understands it. Mr Djelicu, DHSS as propaganda material in 2001 printed this passport in Serbian, English and French. We're going to have a problem with a passport that says a passport on the front page. I was in Morocco, first they looked at the passport, this up Serbia, and they started to lead the controversy with me why that is. Let's just get it public, but honestly, promise when it's gonna be realized. It's not worth smiling about, first, apologize to the MPs and tell them what they're doing more than ratifying the Association and Stabilisation Agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1737	Thank you. The word is by Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, the Democratic Party of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1738	Dear Madam Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, as the headquarters of two Serbian governments, those from 2004 to 2007 and from 2007 to 2008, and as a coalition of DSS-NS who then gave the prime minister and a significant number of ministers in really important areas and portfolios of the DSS, in fact, has made a great effort, knowledge, strength and energy, but above all, the will that these days are always being respected, so first of all, in Serbia's European integration. During the first government, Dr Vojislav Kostunica started and ended significant activities in the process of stabilisation and accession. I'll get some so there's no dilemma. A good and very detailed national strategy for accession and accession in 2005 has been developed. An extremely large number of laws have been passed that were in line with European standards, there were 250 if I am not mistaken, and this is the most productive parliament since the beginning of the Serbian parliament. It was a parliament that had a very strong opposition in which the DS was also in, a parliament that worked both day and night with a high dose of tolerance, which we can talk about, but made a significant contribution to Serbia's accelerated path to the EU. Finally, a positive feasibility study was obtained, after which negotiations on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2005, and as they were successfully completed in 2007, the agreement was initialled. Let me be a little more specific so I can remind you. Zivkovic's government tried to seek out this agreement and was said not to try to seek it, as it will receive a negative answer. Why did I say that? I simply wanted to remind myself of what Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS did on Serbia's path to the EU, because today we are witnessing that a terrible number of those who say they are incredibly responsible, that Vojislav Kostunica and DSS are anti-Europeans, and they are Europeans. Now let me remind you again, in 2004-2007 the DS was in opposition and for a year and a half did not enter this hall, so I can't remember what part they recognize this great contribution to this trip. I'll give you one more detail. If we look theoretically at Serbia this time in Serbia's EU transition, Serbia is under Vojislav Kostunica, as prime minister and his governments, halfway through the road, if not more on this road to the EU. What am I saying? Because today we have a situation where marketing works wonders and that these governments are declaring anti-European. The big question now is what happened, what changed these circumstances, so someone who is an unforgiving patriot and a witness patriot like Vojislav Kostunica suddenly asked to stop and agree with the EU on some very important things and very important details, which are being swept under the cloak here that we don't all understand them in the same way. The fracture occurred at the end of 2007, but Serbia's willless Vojislav Kostunica, not with the will of the DSS, but with the will of the EU which suddenly turned, according to our people, the turkey went upside down and suddenly stopped looking at Serbia within the limits given to it by Resolution 1244, which suddenly began to think about an independent Kosovo and the confiscation of 15% of Serbia's territory. Actually, what's changed. The objective of the SAA has changed. The previous SAA had a comprehensive attitude towards Serbia's EU approach. At this moment, the SAA is a political means by which the EU hits Serbia every time it mentions that Kosovo is its own and that Resolution 1244 continues to apply. So, the EU, in fact, holds the SAA as a kind of whip that punishes Serbia to recognise that Kosovo is independent. This, of course, is neither in line with international law nor international norms, but it is very much in line with the US's hegemonic policy, and we must say that the EU has long since had its own policy but only obeys what the United States commands it to do. It is understood, therefore, that Serbia must not give up any moment of its state and national interest, so that the EU did not ask any country on the road for what it requires of Serbia, correct me if I am wrong, give up 15% of the territory and recognise an independent state in its territory. In addition, very often there are some new conditions that the EU has put in place, practically, new requirements for Serbia before it joins the EU. Let's say, these days, there's a question of the Duke's. That question will go about in the same direction as the Kosovo story and, God forbid, but if this government stays, that's how it ends. Since February 2008, especially since March 2008, when Vojislav Kostunica returned the mandate to the people – which, in fact, caused the bitterness and horror of our alleged Democrats, because Vojislav Kostunica is the only party president and the only prime minister in this country, and the only man in this country, who, twice as normal, left power, not making it a drama, not causing international conflicts and making a story about that country that if he went off in early March 2008, Vojislav Kostunica returned his mandate to the people, and then the entire public, especially the media who are, I can't tell the undersigned yellow, but colored yellow, asked the question – what happened now, so he knows what it says in that contract, so why is he now making drama about something so simple and ordinary, we just want to go through it? Gentlemen, I heard it yesterday and on a television show, the head of a parliamentary group says - I don't know what happened. Well, if he doesn't know, here, let's explain it to him. Circumstances changed dramatically. And, you with whom we want to sign a co-operation agreement, a partnership, you take 15% of our territory, you recognize an independent Kosovo on our territory, and you bring the Eulex into our territory, and we didn't invite them, we didn't let them bring them to our territory. What I see here is that you stick your head in the sand, pretend it's not what I'm talking about, that some of you smile and chat between yourselves while I'm talking, and the point is, these are very simple things, things are seen so naked that it's just amazing that someone doesn't see what this is all about. I'm very inclined to think that you know what it's about and that you're just pretending here to run down the water and state of Serbia and Kosovo, and all for getting a little closer to Europe, so when you come to the door to be told -- you know, you're our friends, but the Lisbon Agreement hasn't been adopted, we're sorry, you're still standing at the door. Besides, you're talking about something that's been on a long stick forever. What else do I want to recap? It is clear that by signing the SAA at this time and under these circumstances Serbia would deafen itself to its state interest. Why? For the sake of a promise of a better life, because we're dealing with a promise here. Neither the SAA nor the Transition Agreement on Trade and Trade Relations will enter into force until other conditions such as, say, the Hague condition are met. Therefore, the DSS believes that it is necessary to stop at this point, that this agreement should not be signed at this time; of course, in the future, under other circumstances, yes. And this vacuum that occurs in the implementation of the SAA is filled with direct agreements concerning, say, visa regimes, science and education, trade co-operation and the like. Such agreements would advance Serbia, bring it closer to the EU, but would not do harm that no one can fix anymore. Just one more thing, very short. Mr Djelic said it was very important, citing sugar as a very important thing that we had and lost. We lost to your relationship, Mr. Djelic, and then you were in the government, because of your relationship, it was a typical example of fraud. We tried to deceive the European Union, so he told us, then, how well the Croats negotiated, and not the other thing, that the Croats had negotiated their fishing territory until they had done what was favourable to them. I won't go any further, there are my colleagues who will develop this thing to the end and explain to those who don't want to understand, just for a little while, as Mr. Djelic said, with that very high "come on", let's once gentlemen think of the state interest, let's just not think about what makes us good at five meters ahead of us, and a mile ahead is the flood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1739	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, gentlemen of the Government, by ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in fact, Serbia is starting to undertake comprehensive preparations to join the European Union. I say it is only the beginning of preparation, because obviously, and you have seen today during the debate that Serbia is facing a major diplomatic battle until that goal is achieved. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is not only one of the priorities and part of the government's SPS programme, it is one of the priorities of Serbian citizens who want Serbia to join the European Union in a huge number. Of course, the agreement is strategically important for the Republic of Serbia and is important for the further economic, economic and overall social progress of our country. I don't want to talk about the meaning of all this anymore. That's how much you heard about it. I want to point to two things. First, to remind me, the head of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, Mr Branko Ruzic, has expressed the parliamentary group's position on this issue, or the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote to ratify this agreement, although we think there are two shortcomings, one of which, with good will, can be corrected. I will try very specifically to say, I think this is a very serious issue, and Serbia is tired of sharing, fighting, rallying and all. What is it I want to point to? One of the drawbacks that we point to, that's what's been keeping our public's attention for months, and that's a famous member of 135. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. My impression is, without pretentious judgment, that here is the biggest problem with that member. Those who were in the government, and now in opposition, obviously have no objections to the text of the Agreement, because the two governments, along with experts, have established, adopted and initialled it after two years of negotiations. It is the text, the content of the Agreement. I therefore conclude that there are no objections to the content of the Agreement. Today I also had the opportunity to hear from the main opposition party that, when the amendment was adopted, there would be a minority general consensus. I would like to warn, as a folk MP, that entering the European Union is no one's privilege, is not a piece of anyone, it is the wish of the citizens of Serbia, whoever is in power must achieve, and the skill of those in power is to do so in the best possible way, respecting and safeguarding the national and state interests of Serbia. I think there's room for this very important issue to be achieved much greater, not to say great consensus. Serbia needs styles, gatherings. Serbia needs to be more united about Serbia's strategic goals, especially in the national and state interest, and Serbia's national and state interest is to join the European Union and it is necessary that we all make a little effort to do so. Here's what I mean. It is known by international law, the Vienna Convention, that each country can adopt, as it is said, an interpretative statement which gives it the knowledge of how it interprets certain provisions of the agreement. I remind you again, there's no change in the agreement and it can't be changed. Serbia only shows a clear view of it as interpreted by Article 135. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. We think that's an important question. Such a statement that the Assembly should adopt and that it would welcome those members who have not recognised Kosovo, and such a statement, which is one-sided, certainly does not oblige those who have already done so, but obliges Serbia and the state authorities of Serbia and all those who lead Serbia. Without the pretense to be a solution, without determining whether there is any better, I simply offer as an inspiration that this statement, however it may be, and whoever submits it, and I think it would be best to sit and come to one together, it would be important to have two sentences. First: "The Republic of Serbia understands this agreement as an act recognising Serbia's sovereignty in all its territory and respecting its integrity in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244." Second: "If the condition for joining the European Union was to give up Serbia from the above-mentioned stance, Serbia would no longer be considered mandatory provisions of the Agreement and it would cease to apply to it. ''These two sentences, as an inspiration, not as a final solution, need an agreement, and whatever else can be done, we think it is very important for Serbia to send such a message, why do we think it is not controversial? Well, there is no political party here or at least a vast majority who disagrees that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, that it can never be different. It's politics. If that's the case, then it doesn't matter that there's one such statement. We are not disrupting any agreement, because the Agreement is not being amended, but Serbia is clearly declaring it interpreting that provision of the Agreement and nothing is forbidden. Serbia, too, is leading, and it is good to lead, must not give up on it, a diplomatic action in the General Assembly that the International Court is justifying its court. This is important for both Serbia and the international community. If we keep this quiet, there is a danger that people think that Serbia is giving up something, and I'm sure we all think that all those resolutions, all those daily statements, that Serbia is not giving up. So, I repeat, I think that in terms of the interpretative statement, which contains these basic elements, it would be even better and clearer, because we have the opportunity not to change the agreement in the EU, but – it interprets it in its own way. Let's say we interpret him our way. I think there's still time to talk about it. This is an important issue for Serbia to turn to it with as much consensus as possible. Serbia can never enter Europe divided, torn, quarreled and everything else. We all need to do a little bit to get to that unity as far as possible. Just for a little while, another flaw that we warned about, which wasn't very public, somehow didn't look back on it. I want for the sake of the public and for those who have worked on this agreement to ask for a more detailed explanation to be made to the public. Namely, Article 53. The deal is, what happened? Our party, both governments negotiating, has accepted a provision that gives EU companies the right to acquire property over real estate, which is somewhat less painful, but gives the right to obtain public goods. the rights to use natural resources as well as to Serbian companies, which is both painful and tragic, and what is worse, before joining the EU. I think it had to be done a little bit more, to keep as much as possible what is in this country, because we have a situation, follow it, if you do, if you do not correct me, all the countries that have become new EU members have ruled out the right of businesses from the EU to acquire their natural resources, agricultural land, forests and forest land for at least seven years from the moment of entry into the EU. And even if I'm not mistaken, Croatia has completely ruled out that right. What are the reasons that Serbia was the only one to accept, during the negotiations between the two governments, to allow this immediately after the entry into force of the Agreement, so before joining the EU? We think that this question, too, is very important, regardless of what has not caused so much public attention as before, and that our country will have to take very serious measures to keep those natural resources that it has under such circumstances. And we know only the details that large agricultural land was purchased by tycoons, and if this is possible for people from the EU, we are gone. So, before the government, there will be a commitment to the state to make it possible to implement this legislation to protect all the wealth that this country has. I'll conclude in the end, I think it's the two shortcomings I was talking about. One, I remind you, can still be corrected, and the other in the coming period with its own legislation, the states will have to take care of how to protect these treasures. I return to the beginning, for all the reasons I have talked about, and given that it is a great desire for the citizens of Serbia, which is normal, to enter the EU, to develop Serbia, to work, to work, to live better, what they want is a commitment for all of us to make it possible for them in the best way possible, safeguarding Serbia's state and national interests. I repeat, the SPS insists that this is still being discussed, but will vote in favour of the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1741	The word is Mr. Zoran Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1742	Dear Members of the People, the President-in-Office, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, that MPs are obliged to maintain the dignity of this assembly. I have no doubt of Mr Petronievich's good intentions and I truly believe that everything you have said here, your dilemmas and fears, that you are behind it. You, of course, are like a well-intentioned man and a man who wants to protect national and state interests, here you raised dilemmas and, unfortunately, your party will vote in such a way that these dilemmas will survive, or possibly even deepen even further. That's one aspect. So you're in contradiction. What you've been saying here, the questions, the dilemmas and the fears you've been opening up in contradiction with your political party's position to ratify the SAA. Secondly, I think it would be necessary to explain who you were talking to here. I'm saying I don't doubt your well-meaning, but did you address the MPs DSS, NS, SRS or did you address the MPs of the ruling coalition, or, above all, DS MPs. If you spoke to them, then let me remind you that you are with them in the government and that you have opportunities and mechanisms to agree, not to make your differences here publicly. So it's not right for you here to suggest some kind of joint statement, where we're going to interpret Article 135. Then I ask you a question, if you have a dilemma and if you speak on behalf of the SPS here, today, just before, then I ask your foreigner, on what grounds do you vote for this agreement? If you have dilemmas and fears about Article 135, we do not have this dilemma, we clearly state our position and that is why we will not vote for this agreement. Don't try to spin something here that you can't, to defend something that's indefensible and that you're trying to connect something that's incompatible. So either you interpret article 135 in a way that protects the integrity of our country or after these events that we have had and about which DSS MPs have spoken, changed circumstances, we come into a situation that, by supporting and ratifying the SAA, we actually sign independence, or we accept and agree to the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. This is one key issue, it is the most important state and national issue, and it must be given a clear answer. You can't go out for a pay phone and express your fears and dilemmas. It's just not right. You must understand that you are in the government and you must understand that you share responsibility with those who do not have a dilemma about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1743	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1744	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have not expressed any fears, I am not afraid, there is no dilemma for me. I didn't say anything contrary to what the government suggested. I've expressed my party's position, but I've also brought out what I think can be done. And why didn't I say the opposite of what the government suggested? If you've had a chance to see, in the KIM Resolution, the government has proposed a statement of this kind, an interpretative statement. In that I am not in conflict with anyone if I say that this interpretative statement could be now, in the adoption of this agreement. It has nothing to do with whether we recognize KIM's independence or not to admit it, at least don't respect it, we have nothing to do with it. We did not participate in the creation of this agreement, nor did we participate in the negotiations, nor did we adopt it in the final text. We only say what is adopted, what we consider to be his lack. So I'm not in conflict with either the party or the government's proposal. If you think it's a conflict to call, as much as it can be called, to the arrangements, to invite it to align whatever it can be coordinated, then obviously I'm misread. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1745	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come out to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 198 and Article 200. What's this about? On July 18th, I asked the President of the Republic of Serbia in oral form and asked him to solve the problem we have on KIM, and the problem is that RIK has called local elections in the KIM territory and issued confidence on the mandates of the councils in KIM municipalities. Meanwhile, the congregations have been established, but the seats of the municipality's president, the municipality's vice-president, members of municipal councils remain vacant, new committees are elected on a proposal from the committee lists that have won certain parliamentary mandates. Member of the 200th makes it clear: "The Government, or the Minister, must reply orally immediately. If there is a need for some preparation to respond, they must immediately explain it (Mr. Prime Minister was present, did not want to answer, nor wanted to explain it), and deliver the reply to the MP in writing (and I did not receive it until today) within eight days of the day when the question was asked. "I remind you, again, that day was July 18th. "The written response of the Government, or the Secretary-General, is delivered to the MPs." As far as I know, none of the MPs got that. Paragraph 3 of Article 200 states: "Extremely, if there is a need to establish certain facts in the preparation of an answer to the parliamentary question, whose determination requires a longer or more complex analysis, the time limit for answering the parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days." I remind you that this deadline expired on August 17th, today is September 3rd, we do not have an answer and certain municipalities are in trouble to schedule new meetings of the congregations. Based on this and through that statement we were able to read, issued on August 28th by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, asking that Serbian people recognise the mission of Eulex, which came to KIM, which is beginning to walk in certain municipalities, the government's attitude towards KIM is seen. It remains that the government of the Republic of Serbia simply deleted the map of the Republic of Serbia, KIM, and left it to the Shiparian separatists and terrorists. I don't think this is nice and the government could have done this job, no matter what the season of vacations was. It should have allowed the Serbian people to organise themselves so that they could serve through their local self-government the most necessary conditions for the citizens who live on KIM. This is how you leave us alone to find out how we know and know. We will overcome this problem, but it is very pathetic and sad for all Serbs and all the Serb people in KIM, and I remind you that over 100,000 citizens, Serbs and other non-Albanians, have formed local self-government, and you are doing a classic vision of obstruction. You want to undo this effort by the Serbian people, to undo our suffering, because we finally got our own local self-government, and not to have coordinators that you put in local self-governments, who were just robbing and seizing that money and those funds that the Republic of Serbia referred to Kosovo, and it didn't come where it should, to the citizens, Serbs, to KIM. I am again asking the same parliamentary question, given that tomorrow is Thursday and that the government is sitting on Thursdays, to make additional efforts to write one sentence and empower RIK to issue confidence about the councils in KIM municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1747	Thank you. Conscious of the contents of the question, I'll Urge with the Government to get an answer. The word is Mr. Dejan Mirovic, the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1748	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that circumstances have changed since the initialling and signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Twenty EU Member States have recognised so-called. the state of Kosovo. Therefore, in view of these new circumstances, the provisions of Article 62 may apply. The 1969 Vienna Convention on Contract Law, which regulates the revision and termination of the contract. Article 62 provides for a fundamental change of circumstances, as a reason for the termination of the contract. Also, according to international law, there is a basis for claiming that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was a kind of fraud. In Article 49. The Vienna Convention on Contract Law states that the state signatories of the contract may be called for fraud, as a reason for the futility of its consent to the contract. Without a doubt, it is a scam when a party is called to the UN Charter in the Stabilisation Agreement, and then harshly trampled on the same Charter, as it acknowledges so-called. the state of Kosovo. Of course, all of these legal arguments can be answered by the claim that the importance of international law today is reduced to the same level that existed at the time of society - the people. Ladies and gentlemen, if so and if this new reality should be respected, then the following facts should be considered. To say the least, it is a very controversial claim that ratification of the Agreement will bring economic progress and a better standard. The following examples show this: Macedonia signed a Stabilisation Agreement with the EU seven years ago, three years ago it gained candidate status. However, on the World Economic Forum Development List, Macedonia is behind Serbia. According to the Macedonian State Statistics Institute, the average net earnings in March this year amounted to about 250 euros in Macedonia. In the same period, according to the Republic Statistics Institute, the average net earnings in Serbia amounted to around 385 euros. According to official estimates by Macedonian state authorities, Macedonia's unemployment rate was almost 37% in 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 20. The Stabilisation Agreement provides that customs duties on imports of industrial products originating in Serbia are to be abolished. That provision should certainly be welcomed, so that the provisions of Article 21 do not follow it. The Article 1 states: "Certains on imports into Serbia of industrial products originating in the Community, other than those mentioned in Annex 1, are abolished... "Then the position of the 3rd member states: "The customs duties on imports of industrial products into Serbia originating in the Community, listed in Annex 1, will gradually be reduced and abolished... "So, the Stabilisation Agreement almost treats Serbia's small and poor industries and such global industrial forces as Germany or France. How unrealistic and harmful for our economy is the following comparison: German exports dominated precisely by industrial products in 2007 amounted to around 970 billion euros, in the same period our exports reached about 6.4 billion euros, so not one per cent of Germany. It is therefore not difficult to predict what will happen when customs duties are lifted in this area, as predicted by the SAA. Clearly, there will be an increase in our external trade deficit and a drop in customs revenues. That the real forecast also shows that in the first five months of this year, a deficit of around 460m euros was recorded in a trade with Germany. This is a 43% increase compared to the same period in 2007. It is also known that BiH signed the SAA in June this year. From 1 January 2009, customs duties are lifted for 95% of the goods imported from the EU. That will bring a 60m-euro deficit in BiH's budget. The experiences of new EU members point to a similar conclusion regarding the implementation of the SAA in industry. For example, Poland was once on 11th - place in the world according to the ton of ship construction. It was precisely because of the requirements in Brussels that a number of negative effects occurred in this area. The most famous example is the one from 2007, when the European Commission demanded the closure of 2/3 of the famous shipyard in Gdanjska. Due to the economic situation in Poland, Austrian economics professor Holf Bauer writes that industrial workers in Poland "have found themselves again where they were 200 years ago, fulfilling their mission as a post-industrial reserve army for German, French and American companies". Holf Bauer states that the industrial research and development departments have disappeared precisely because of the so-called European pathway. In Article 26. The EU Stabilisation Agreement confers concessions on imports of agricultural products from Serbia, but already in Article 27(1). The Stabilisation Agreement writes – from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, Serbia will abolish all quantitative restrictions and measures having the same effect on imports of agricultural products originating in the Community. So again almost the same way we treat our agriculture and Western Europe. In this context, it is argued that the implementation of the SAA will lead to competition between our and Western European producers on the EU market. To be unrealistic, it shows the value of Dutch agricultural exports. The exports were bigger than our overall GDP in 2006. Also, because of huge subsidies, even farmers from new EU members do not have a real chance on the EU market. Under an agreement reached in Copenhagen in 2002, new members are forbidden to have more than 25% of the subsidies the EU grants to the old members. This ban will continue until 2013. So if we enter the EU one day, we will hardly have better conditions than these. When voting on the agreement should bear in mind the words of Jan Veleb of the Czech Agrarian Chamber, I quote, according to "Politica" of 21 April 2007: "We do not have many chances in the Western markets. It's rarely where they let anyone on the side. '' Also, in Article 117. The SAA writes that the macro-financial assistance to our country will be granted if "the conditions to be met in the context of the programme between Serbia and the IMF" are met. Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglic, former chief economist and World Bank senior vice president, writes that these IMF conditions lead to "hungry and riots in many countries" and that the IMF is a political institution holding speculators in business. Therefore, all these data question the economic justification of the SAA. Therefore, a public and reasoned debate on the Stabilisation Agreement was necessary. Unfortunately, she wasn't here. We have only had the opportunity to listen to tiring phrases about a European future, but these phrases cannot answer the question of the economic usefulness of the Stabilisation Agreement. Therefore, the full definition of the director of the German NGO's European Stability Initiative, Gerald Knaus, is accurate. After signing the SAA, he said it was a "glorifice propaganda exercise".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1749	The word is Mr. Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1750	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is practically the last step in terms of Serbia's full integration into the EU. It represents only a chance for our country, for our society and our economy to move forward. The two main aspects of this agreement are: economic and political. The economic aspect of the Agreement will be very measurable in the coming years. So all the criticisms we've heard here will be very easily verifiable for the next few years, because the economy is science and an area that has several very clear parameters. We in the next few years if we want to go at a rate of development of seven or eight percent a year we have to have a much greater inflow of foreign direct investment than it has ever been, because so far the rate has been, too, 6, 7 or 8% on average, but it has been caused primarily by a low base of 2000. The rapid growth of social products means an opportunity to address the unemployment problem, as perhaps the biggest economic problem today in Serbia. The signing and consistent implementation of this Stabilisation and Association Agreement is an opportunity to address the monopoly issue in Serbia. Unfortunately, over the past few years, and especially in the last year, a year and a half, the issue of monopoly was, above all, a political issue. Political parties had their say about how the Serbian market was arranged, whether a company has or does not have a monopoly position, and at least there were opportunities for a professional and economic assessment of the situation in the area. That is why when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is implemented if we accept it, which is necessary, European norms that measure whether there is a monopoly in any area, whether or not a monopoly position is misused, will enable it to make an economic answer, and in any case it will be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. The further economic problem burdening Serbia is the issue of underdeveloped infrastructure and it is one of the most important areas regulated by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Of course, and we also see this in the case of countries already members of the EU, such as Bulgaria and Romania, the issue of fighting corruption and crime may be a key aspect that allows one country to move forward in relations with the EU. We see that even when you officially become an EU member, if the state does not have visible and clear fights and clear results in the fight against corruption and crime, there is no possibility of using EU funds. There are two other important economic aspects that need to be resolved in the Serbian economy, which can be resolved with EU assistance. It is a question of regional development and the issue of Serbia's energy independence, or of Serbia's energy dependence. I just want to give one piece of information that Serbia is meeting from domestic production barely 20% of the needs, when we talk about oil and 10% when we talk about natural gas, but I'm sure the agenda point concerning the gasification agreement with the Russian Federation will be an opportunity to talk about something more. At the end of the line and the agreement, which has been said a lot over the past few months, will certainly not be offered to Serbia either for signing or for realisation unless we are on our way to the EU, because it is certainly not even that the interest of the Russian Federation is not to build, for example, a highway through a country that remains isolated from Euro-Atlantic integration. The second aspect most often mentioned by the opposition is the political issue and the question whether Serbia recognises Kosovo and Metohija by ratifying this agreement. I don't think that's correct. Negotiations began on the 10th month of 2005 and the then government knew well that KIM was heading towards independence. We expected both 2005 and 2006 and 2007 to happen. A joint action by the Serbian government, supported by some states in the international community, prevented the scenario of Kosovo winning independence through the UN. But everyone was aware at the time, and those who speak today about this recognition of Kosovo's independence, that if it is not resolved through the UN, Kosovo will independently decide on independence. And then it was known that a large number of EU countries, the United States, would recognise KIM's unilaterally declared independence. It's not something that came up after the KIM Assembly's decision, it's something that was known in advance. If it was unacceptable for us to co-operate with the EU and with countries that will recognise the independence of KIM then, three years ago, we should not have started the process of negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement at all, but to ask the EU at first, which is not possible, but this is required today, that in one document, a statement, an agreement, a statement, says that Serbia will be admitted to the EU in terms of overall territory and that Serbia will not be asked to recognise the independence of KIM before it enters the EU. This does not mean that Serbia will not be faced with a requirement to recognise KIM before joining the EU, i.e. as we later join the EU, there is a greater danger that such a request should be made before the Serbs. It is therefore very important that this process be very fast and that it lasts for the next few years, if possible no more than four years. Although we've heard it's not possible here, I think it is, and I think by technical negotiations we've shown that this country has the capacity to do the job. I guess it makes sense if we join the EU, as a country that has not recognised KIM, that it is better to defend national interests from the position of EU member as another country that does not recognise KIM. It would probably be easier for Serbia to become a full member of the EU and NATO pact in 2001, 2002 or 2003, and to defend from that position the possible intention of Kosovo Albanians to unilaterally declare their independence. What we are hearing today as an argument, and we respect that argument, was to be drawn up as an argument in 2005 when the EU started this process and said, gentlemen, we will not even talk to you until you make a commitment in advance that no EU country will recognise KIM. Well, who can expect when 21 EU countries have recognised KIM that the European Union can now issue a statement and sign an agreement that they do not recognise those unilateral decisions. Therefore, the situation is as it is and it is up to us to join the EU as soon as possible, to try with those few countries that have not recognised independence to be us tomorrow as a country that will prevent KIM from entering the EU, not to wait for them to enter before us and block us in 10 or 11 years, so that we never become an EU member. Of course, it seems to you now as an impossible scenario, but a few years ago it seemed impossible for Kosovo to declare independence, so unfortunately that thing happened. We've seen in the last month that the interest of large forces is not international law, but international law when it suits them, and when it doesn't suit them then they find some explanation. These are the rules of the game that unfortunately became and began to apply on the international stage after Kosovo's unilateral declaration and the sooner we understand it, the better we will manage it. The third thing, it is not necessary to send some kind of false hope to the citizens of Serbia that by signing the agreement, we will solve all our problems. It is only a chance for the Serbian economy and it is only an opportunity for Serbian society. Our capacities will depend on how successful we will change the economy, how successfully we will attract these pre-accession funds. You have an example of countries that 10 or 20% of these funds use just because they don't have enough capacity. Therefore, this is both economic and national and every other interest. That is why it is good that this congregation will support this agreement, regardless of what is said to be a small majority against the great minority. If another coalition had been formed, the small majority would probably have rejected the agreement, but fortunately the Serbian citizens voted for the agreement to be ratified and it would be done within the next few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1751	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1752	Dear People's MPs, it must indeed respond to this sentence by my predecessor that in 2005, Kosovo was known to be independent. If he knew, I didn't know – in 2006 and 2007, negotiations on KIM's status lasted, you all remember that. So, the state has fully negotiated with the representatives of the temporary institutions at KIM, with the intervention of the UN and the EU, and has negotiated with one platform that you all know. The platform had no idea that the state was at peace with some fate about Kosovo's independence. This argument is a post-festum argument and it is not a fair argument that is presented in September 2008. If someone knew Kosovo would be independent in 2005, then they should have said so. Some people said that, though. They said they were quite sure that by the end of 2006, Kosovo would be independent. Such statements were made in our public, you may remember. As you can see, they were wrong. These are serious things and we can't, therefore, play a post-festum with such things. The state has entered these Fide Bona negotiations, with a very good and strong platform. As far as the EU is concerned, I can tell you, I can testify, because I have organised these negotiations in some way, I have been the coordinator of the negotiating team, just as one fact I want to give you, the EU has not had so-called for all this time. a common position on KIM. It is one document that the Council of Ministers, which leads to EU foreign policy, as a rule, outlines when dealing with a specific foreign policy topic. The EU's common position does not have a day today. We mentioned a joint action that took place on 3 February 2008, without a common position. So we had no formal indication that the EU would recognise KIM's independence. Some of the real ones we had, some countries, and in the negotiating process, they convinced us that it was one fate that we had to accept, etc., some did not. It was one process. If we'd been acting like ourselves now, with later intelligence, some suggest we'd have lost both KIM and ourselves. We didn't do it, and don't be cynical in September 2008. It's a terrible statement from the foreign policy point of view of this country. So, in the negotiation process, which came with good faith, this country defended Serbia's territorial integrity. So, the negotiating team, which was a team followed by both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, at a time when there was a famous co-habitation, set off in 2005, and lasted 2006-2007, was fully negotiated with the firm belief that KIM would defend itself. There was no bargaining on our part. The fact that he prevailed on independence and in the EU was not visible in 2005, 2006 and in part of 2007. The faceless pressures the United States has exerted on the EU, on EU authorities and on individual EU leaders were visible. That was visible, but we could not conclude that Kosovo would certainly be independent because we would not negotiate that conclusion. Please speak here of what you will and express your views, but don't be unfair, don't reason as generals after the battle. That's not a good way to look at government affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1753	Thank you. Mr. Senic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1754	I'm guessing you didn't understand me. I did not say that negotiations were played in 2005, nor that a decision was made to accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence in advance. It does not occur to me that I am talking about some of the things that were part of the preparations for the negotiation process here for the assembly speaker in 2005, because it would not be correct for the people who were involved in this at the time, but you cannot convince me, nor can you convince the public of Serbia that in 2005, none of the state officials expected Kosovo to declare independence in one way or another. The success of our negotiating team was this, and it is not a small thing that, with the support of the Security Council, we managed to prevent it from happening through the UN institutions and the Security Council, which now gives us some ground to change that decision sometimes in the future, and in 2005, we knew well that sooner or later, this thing would happen and it was a matter of our political strategy whether we wanted to enter into talks with the EU. Who in 2005, did not know that most EU countries, when Kosovo's independence was declared, would not accept this independence as a policy issue. It's not an ex-post mind, it's just a matter of state readiness and strategy. We don't take that decision today, but we can't say that three years ago we didn't know what was going to happen and we're deciding today. We can go to the EU and if they tell us in four years you cannot enter until you recognise Kosovo's independence, we as the Assembly will decide that it is unacceptable for us. But we know that, and now it can be asked as a question. If we go in faster, it won't be a topic, if we postpone it again for five or six years, it'll also be a topic, and we'll also have to answer that challenge. That is why it is better to get in faster and address the problem from the EU member's position.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1755	Replica, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1756	Mr. Senic, what you just said opened one question that we would certainly open or I would open if I could make it to my turn to speak, but obviously I can't. What anyone knew in 2005 or 2006, whether there was – how can you say that in 2005 it was possible to know that Kosovo would be independent, if it was possible then to predict such a circumstance, as you say, then most likely today and you think that Kosovo is independent. Most likely, the ruling majority who you belong to, when the ruling majority or vice-president of the government tells us here that they will fight to the end for the territorial integrity of the state, and that signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is in no way jeopardising the territorial integrity of the state, then the question is, if that is true, whether you think you are cheating on the EU. What did you just say? You said Serbia will fight easier for territorial integrity if it becomes an EU member before Kosovo. Do you understand what you're saying? You have implicated the possibility of membership in the EU of Kosovo as an independent state, which should be implemented through the EU Council of Ministers under the political procedure that applies to us, and that we, as if we become a member of the EU, prevent it from happening. Are you out of your mind? What do you mean by that? Are you saying that you want to fool the EU, screw them up, let them join the EU like we do, that we are pretending to be crazy about challenges called challenging territorial integrity and this confusion with a Stabilisation and Association Agreement that serves nothing but political pressure to implement plans through Eulex, which supports Ahtisaari's plan, etc? So it's nothing to you, and then you're gonna jump at one point and say, well, what you thought we thought when we signed the SAA was no longer valid, we really thought we were defending our territorial integrity, we were joking, and now you're going to see your god? That's not how it works, because the contract you're going to ratify today, i.e. in the voting day, it contains some obligations. We've already talked about these obligations. Mr Samardzic stated these obligations and they will wait for you at the first next corner, when they ask you to respect good neighbourly relations with countries, when the EU includes Kosovo in the process of European integration, and you cannot prevent them because you are not a member, then they will force you to have good neighbourly relations with Kosovo. Then you will practically not be able to fulfill this contractual obligation, if Bozidar Djelic really thinks what he said here and here are the problems for us. Here we are - not EU membership. Here are the problems with the accession process, regardless of what is called the stage of the procedure, whether it's about candidacy or something else. Well, if you already know, and I believe you know, that we have serious political problems in relations with the EU, which we talked about, wasn't it wiser to clear this up? Wasn't it wiser that instead of going to an emergency election, and obviously, we had to clear up this problem in the country, so that we could represent the front towards the EU, we would ask for an explanation of these circumstances, because without it we can't go any further? Why? So there are two parallel forms of EU accession. They're one unity. One is the political content of this approach, the other is economic. Political content is exhausted in the signing of an agreement with the EU, Brussels as an Economic Community, and individually with all EU member states, without an interpretative declaration or with an interpretative declaration. When the agreement is ratified here, it will be ratified by the British Parliament, and then they can give an interpretative declaration and tell us what we are interested in the interpretative declaration of Serbia, we ratify the Agreement as such. It will take effect and will have one single role to justify the Council of Ministers' decision to function in Kosovo and Metohija, which should implement the constitution of an independent Kosovo. What does Slovakia have to do with that? I'm seriously warning you about that. That is why it was necessary for us to discuss this issue first among ourselves, to take the bloc's frontal joint towards the EU and to clarify this unexplained environment, where it begins and where something called the EU as an entity ends, regardless of the Member States. It's a very complicated and controversial question. It's a better trade agreement, it's better to have a visa-free regime, it's better to do anything with the EU that we can do as realistic as possible, than to crash into ruin for an including political agreement that's going to get us into very big trouble soon. If you don't believe us today, in a few weeks or a few months, what I'm talking about will come true, and then you'll see what it looks like. I deeply believe that there are well-intentioned among you, who think that what they are doing today is right for Serbia. But believe me, the least I can tell you right now is that you're wrong, you're making a big mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1757	Mr. Milenic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1758	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about the point in which my advertising provision 104 turns into a summary of the entire work of this House since its constitution. Only at this moment do the reasons for the threat of the dignity of the congregation come to terms. In fact, Mr. Senic and I, when we looked at the first concept of the agenda and where the Declaration on the Continuity of State Policy towards Kosovo and Metohija appeared as the first point of the agenda, we found it confusing. As long as more in multi-party Serbia, citizens will demand discontinuity, and governments are trying to establish continuity. And finally, the first item of the agenda fought for its place on the agenda of the first session of the new National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That first item of the agenda is also the reason for this long-term obstruction. It's not the myths, nor the letters and answers to the letter, nor who invited whom, and who did not come, but the SSP whose greatest value is in the discontinuity that brings into our society, political practice, and which opens up a walled society to the future. That's what I'll talk about when I get my word in line. But the most important discontinuity this document brings is discontinuity with regard to the opt-out policy, relative to the politics of boredom and vainness, distances from the facts of which two are key to understanding Serbia's current international and internal political situation, which are systematically ignored. One is the fact that even a soft dictatorship or certainly a non-democratic order cannot be converted into a state of civil, free, open society through continuity policies. Another significant fact is that Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, is a country that has suffered a severe military defeat from the most powerful forces that define international order in the modern world. The cost of this defeat and the responsibility for the policies that lead to it should be paid by generations and people who are not responsible for this defeat, but who must have learned how dangerous it is to play with international order and believe that from their enclaves and partial truths and world visions you are allowed to engage in confrontation with international world order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1759	The word is Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1760	Dear Members of the People, we have had a great opportunity to see two representatives, or two MPs of the political party who are European integrations of ideology and who interpret European integration as an ideology, not as a reality. The ideology of the DSS is respect for the rule of law, it is an advocate for the market economy, it is an advocate for positive traditional values. Is there something going on here, Mr. Senic? If there is, let us open up, there are differences and there should be differences between political parties, but what we inherit, and I suppose what your political confidence is based on, are both Serbian and European political values. But don't be a European pro at all costs. Your ideology and your policy can't be just and exclusively the European Union, and you stick your head in the sand and you demonstrate it in the best possible way at the end of today's debate. You stick your head in the sand and you don't admit the problem. You said one very dangerous thing here and it came across the approval of the left-hand side, which is that everyone knew in 2005 that Kosovo would be recognised as an independent state. I don't know what you mean by that? Were you going to say that the efforts that he made in one piece and contributed to European integration were also conscious of the negotiations and to the situation in which we are today. Is that three years of deception by citizens and the general public? Now that Kosovo's independence has been declared after 17 February, when the problem has been opened, you here deny that there is any responsibility of the European Union and, in a clear and clear manner, that it should go very quickly and at any cost to the European Union. We say the next thing, we don't have a problem with our ideology, we shouldn't even have representatives of the European Union with the ideologies of the DSS. We are not in conflict with the truth and that is what gives us strength, that is what we all need to be given the strength to fight for what is our national interest, which is the European Union, but only with Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1761	Mr. Jovan Palalic, the Advertiser of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1762	Dear President, we keep trying to hear someone talk about what the policies and objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are when it comes to the agreement with the European Union and Kosovo and Metohija. Now we've heard it plasticly. The race will start in the European Union – will Serbia, is it Kosovo? We have come to a situation where we are at peace with the fact, I am talking about the government and representatives of the government, that Serbia accepts that Kosovo and Metohija will be in the process of stabilisation and accession, that one day they will be a candidate for membership in the European Union, and now the question is at what speed Serbia will rather enter the European Union and block the process. That's the discontinuity we were talking about when we started the discussion from the Prime Minister's exposé and beyond. Indeed, there is discontinuity over the policy that was in previous governments when the first item of the agenda was Kosovo and Metohija, always, at every session, and now, it has to be told to citizens, by the government's decision to change the agenda, the last point, and that's the essence of the story. So the point is to give up the fight, to prevent the European Union from going to the end in its intention to create an independent state from Kosovo. The goal is to accept this reality in every way possible and to eventually give up and give up the works of its territory. Instead, one firm, determined, consistent policy of defence of territorial integrity was conducted in the previous two governments. And indeed, it is regrettable that this policy has been abandoned. Indeed, it is regrettable that the world's public now sees this division in the Serbian parliament and probably those who have been advocates of creating an independent Kosovo now resemble such deep divisions in Serbian political society. We again appeal to return to that policy for Kosovo and Metohija to be the first item of the agenda, to show together unity in defence and to talk to the European Union about these problems, not to fight in every way possible to get ahead of Kosovo into the European Union, in order to prevent Kosovo from entering the same organisation. Believe me, the first step when this drop doesn't end, it's going to end up being the reality of which all of us here are going to have a headache. We must try to talk about these issues openly and return to a policy that successfully defended territorial integrity, regardless of what some predicted that Kosovo would be separated much earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-03-0.u1763	Thank you. We'll continue our work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 140 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the extension of work. I would like to inform you that I am, on the basis of Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, called for this session to be attended by: Milica Delevic, Assistant Foreign Minister Ksenija Milivojevic, Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration Tanja Miscevic, Director of the Office for European Integration and Vladimir Medjak, legal adviser at the Office for European Integration. We move to item 1 and 2 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CONSERVATION OF THE Stabilisation AND Association AgreementS AND THE TRANSITION OF TRADE AND TRAINING QUESTIONS BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (the continuation of the common single search) Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
