ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will now present you with the information, and I am reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, to find out for yourself whether this assembly should continue to work or should insist on requirements that are very simple, which are in favour of this state and the citizens of Serbia, because we demand that the robbery be stopped, and that is ruthless robbery, more or less in all public enterprises and institutions in Serbia. Today, I'm going to read you new information about "Nikola Tesla" Airport and Bojan Krist, so you can figure out what the government is doing right now. The government in every way wants this affair to be covered up, wants it to be divorced, to forget, that some other events of seriousness cover up all these facts and data and to be in that people's "shake up, have been born a mouse", "eat a donkey wolf". It can't be like that. Bojan Kristo fled to Germany and, as usual, went not with JAT, but with Lufthanz, and by the means of "Nikola Tesla". The ticket is paid for 106,180 dinars. One more thing to tell you, Nikola Stankov, head of flight control, is about to flee to Switzerland, and you're not going to run the institutions to stop the robbery. Only for the ironing of the company's "Activa Nova" documents is about 5,000 euros. Bojan Krisht's security is still at Nicole Tesla Airport, preventing anyone from getting any information, and according to our information, papers are being intensively delivered. But you know there's nothing to hide, because a large number of people have decided to deal with thieves at Nicole Tesla Airport. You had a chance to see that the individuals, the ones we called, were returning some money to the airport yesterday. What's the question? If they're legally won, what are they coming back for? That says they're trying to cover up all that stuff. Here's the data on Bojan Krishta's salary, in the sixth month, the first part of 880 thousand, what I told you, but the data came in for the second part -- a million and 38 thousand dinars. Two million in six months. (President: Time. I'm sorry, I'm done. In the seventh month, the first part of 866 thousand, the second part of a million and 160 thousand. Radovan Jelasic argues there is no inflation, but a dinar stronger. On what grounds did his salary increase this much? (President: Please speak for a minute longer. Just a little patience. In the ninth month, two million 693 thousand. I guess there's a winter break coming, so the kids are going to school, shoes, etc. (President: Mr. Todorovic, please finish. Deputy Director - two million 156 thousand. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8235	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8236	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has one firm position on Serbia's European path. We are for Europe, we are for European integration, we are for European laws that are on the agenda of this assembly. However, we are, above all, for the normal, most normal life of Serbian citizens. So it's time to get life back into this assembly, it's time for the Assembly to affect this virus that's absolutely affected all the organs, all the levers of the government in this country, which is a virus of corruption, it's a virus of abuse, it's a virus of a common robbery. We asked certain questions yesterday, did anyone react, but seriously respond, about the same? Is there an investigation being launched by the authorities? We have proposed that the budgetary authorities, the prosecution, the MUP take some steps in public enterprises. It's obvious that public enterprises are the biggest problem this country has ever had. We can't go to Europe if we have corruption, if we're being abused at that level we're at right now. We know that monopolies are very large parasites of this country, and the monopoly is the largest in Serbia exactly the state, and that proves everything currently happening on the political scene, in the country's social life. I refer to Articles 31 and 226. The Rules of Procedure and that is why I have come out to draw public attention and to ask all the authorities, all the MPs, therefore, all the relevant factors to start really working in the interest of the citizens, because it is not enough to build a scandal, it is not enough for one scandal to cover the previous and to forget everything. We all talk to each other, we all know very well what kind of abuses are rolling behind the scenes. Therefore, go ahead and work, gentlemen Members and gentlemen of the Ministers, as well as all others who are very well rewarded from the current current current budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8237	Thank you. I think the Assembly has sent a clear message, first of all, to the public, and then clear demands to all individuals and institutions who need to do their job in accordance with the law. I think it's very important that, after we've shown part of the control, let's say, the emissions of our own messages to both the public and those institutions, today we return to our agenda. You know how important the agenda is. You know we have a few important sessions ahead of us. You know we have a budget coming up. After all, we also have a point of agenda - trust in the government, at the first next session. Therefore, I ask the MPs and appeal that we work on the agenda. Madam Vice President Natasa Jovanovic, please. And by the way, the words "Vjerica Radeta", "Momir Marković", "Zeljko Tomic", "Jelena Dimitrijevic", " Dragan Stevanović", "Zoran Krasic", etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8238	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the whole Serbian public these days is just talking about the figures that Mr Dragan Todorovic gives from the assembly booth day to day. And if this whole process hadn't been launched at the beginning of this year, and here it has culminated, and Kristo is just the tip of the iceberg of the robbery of the people and of the state by the powers of G17 and DS, you would continue to crush your parliamentary mandate, the government is doing its job, and there's nothing, the prime minister is gone, EULEX is moving in Kosovo and Metohija, and we don't know what our people's fate is going to do next and what we're going to do with the state and how we're going to protect it. Now it's important to you and I hear what you're throwing out of the bench and how you're reacting. When Mr. Todorovic says that Kristo, which he probably did, escaped to the D.C. airport yesterday or the day before yesterday, and that now his security detail with his thieves is working hard and trying, as he said, "drive" all of it like you, one of you throws it away -- did he bring the iron? I really don't know if you have any awareness and responsibilities about you being here on the same mission and that I need everyone, as a Parliament, working on it, stamping crime and robbing the state and the people. If you don't want to do it, then now that you've declared a break by the President of the Assembly, please take a walk, come back when it begins. You from G17 watch for a while not to be, so come back, and think about whether or not you're going to write a statement, so what did Dinkic tell you, but answer us where Kristo is, because he's your man, since he's one of the biggest mobsters in Serbia. Don't keep your mouth shut and let us drive you out of a mouse hole and defend you here, a Colundji who has the same mile around him. What does that mean? You will sit in the congregation and give us lectures as we usurp the congregation pay phone, and they will continue to rob and kidnap. What does Mr. Todorovic say if they didn't do anything illegal, so what are they paying back? That's enough evidence for that person to be detained today. He's taken something, so he's coming back, so he's stealing and he's kidnapping. I must remind you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that you were at the most difficult time in the country and the people, and especially during NATO aggression, director of the Kragujeva Clinical Center. You did your best to know and to know that there were enough medications to treat patients. These were the ones who agreed to tear down the regime during that time. with those who bombed us with good cooperation, getting money in their pocket on their personal accounts, DOS leaders. Remember what happened to you. After October 5th, you, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, an honest and honorable woman, wanted these same women here to lynch... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Just because you did your job fair and square. I'm done. It's not that the Kraguje police raised, it's the whole state. Now we have obvious evidence that one robbery, kidnapping, stealing and a group around him, and UBPOK goes to the airport. What's this about? So, Mrs. Kolundzija, you are directly responsible, you, Mladjan Dinkic, and those from G17 and you are all protecting criminals. We're not gonna take it, and there's no follow-up session until the police go there, arrest those criminals, and give us an answer on whether a red warrant has been issued for a criminal named Boden Krist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8239	Mrs. Verica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that in this House these days very serious talks are being held and that what the MPs represent to the majority of the assembly and the public of Serbia is, in fact, the most important thing in Serbia right now. What's more important than even Krrish's crime is what happened at the UN Security Council. Tonight, all the agencies announced the news, uploaded to sites, with subtitles -- the Security Council unanimously supported UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon's plan to reconfigure Unmik, opening the door for Eulex. We have been insisting since June to discuss the KIM problem in this parliament. We ask that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and some negotiators, known to the public and citizens of Serbia, not lead us to a final act, that we here in the National Assembly establish frameworks within which they can and must move representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, we are not allowed to discuss the proposal for a resolution on KIM and we are in fact in the process of realising Ahtisaari's plan, we have the deployment of Eulex, we have the story of the ruling majority and the works of the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the whole government of Serbia -- that this is the best solution for the state of Serbia, for Serbs living in the territory of KIM. Unfortunately, that's not true and that's not so. You'll see, there will probably be an official translation of Ban Ki Moon's speech at yesterday's session. You will see that the door to negotiations with Pristina remains open, that it has been announced that the false state of Kosovo has certain amendments. These amendments have been accepted, and it does not stand anywhere, i.e. the debate on these amendments, concerning these six conditions that Serbia has set -- for which no one in the National Assembly knows what they really mean. But that's why we have news from the agency that EU High Representative Javier Solana spoke to Boris Tadic yesterday about the situation with EULEX, which was confirmed by Kristina Galjak. (President: Time. Here, I'm done, Madam President. I suppose you allow and you appreciate that this is such an important topic that it's not good to interrupt half the sentence. I will indeed end up with only two other findings, related to statements by Minister Bogdanovic, who says -- it is still unclear how the judicial system will function, as Albanians will be tried by the law of the self-proclaimed state and Serbs by the laws of Unmika. All police employees will no longer work in the Kosovo police chain -- one representative of the Serb community will co-ordinate their work. So this is also what we want to discuss. We have to stop the Eulex mission -- it's a big con from Serbia's citizens, it's an occupation and an official occupation of KIM, with the obvious agreement of Boris Tadic and the government in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8241	Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8242	Article 104 and 27, 225, 226, whatever you want. So, yesterday we talked about all this and today the same thing continues. Please, from the ruling coalition - do something to continue working on the agenda and on the amendments that are on the agenda. Obviously, if I can speak right now just in front of my DSS group, it is more than obvious that neither yesterday nor today the DSS does anything to block the debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But we have a lot of understanding for all those MPs of the opposition who ask the questions they have asked and we cannot understand why no clear and decadent answer to the questions asked? Which is why we are still standing on that same statement we received from the government of the Republic of Serbia yesterday, with which no one from the opposition was satisfied at the meeting of the heads of parliament. So that's what I'd like to ask you. How is it possible, now it's half past eleven, we broke up six hours ago at the National Assembly, and how is it possible that nothing still happens in that sense? How is that possible? How is that possible? Let's see if it's possible to get one decent and reasonable answer. Is it possible to just say one simple thing that we can't say, but someone from the government has to -- that certain ministries, by order of ministers, are hired to do that, that and that? Here, very simple. Here, I'm not speaking on behalf of the SRS, but I think that would be some satisfying answer so we can keep working. How is it possible we can't get that? And I have a question for you -- where's the budget? Where's the budget? Where is the budget of the Republic of Serbia? It doesn't matter when it comes to the agenda here. Perhaps the work procedure of the National Assembly conditions some timing that is not desired by you. You might wish you had a budget the day before yesterday, but you don't. Where is the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Can anyone answer that question for me? I repeat it once again: where is the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Where is this miracle of the document, so that we can see it, write some amendments, talk about it, and finally adopt it at the National Assembly session? Is this going to be at the government session today? Is there going to be a budget at the government meeting today? Can someone answer that question for me?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8243	I can answer your question. The budget will arrive at the beginning of next week, and last year the budget arrived in this assembly on today's date. So nothing has changed, with the fact that we have a really big economic crisis this year, co-operation with the IMF on solving the most important financial problems and, of course, nothing changes in terms of dynamics compared to last year. He has the word Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the possibility of my word being taken from me again and Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic being punished again by 16,000, I had to answer. I am reporting under Articles 225 and 226 to ask the Serbian government -- is that red Interpol warrant launched against Bojan Krist, and will he be arrested and returned to Serbia? I ask, did Ubpok, or Sbpok, enter Belgrade Airport and begin control? Has the financial police entered Belgrade Airport and has it begun control? If it isn't - when will it be? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems they're not only moving away from the paper, but they're packing the suitcases. Mr. Todorovic said a little while ago that we have reliable information for Nikola Stankov, director of DOO Flight Control, or Action Society, because it was a state institution, and now it's a stock company, with 95% of Serbian capital and 5% of Montenegro's, the only institution that exists between these two states is that it cannot be controlled. So let me ask, why don't the financial police go in there? Why is there no control of the operations of the Flight Control Agency? For the third time, a tender for the purchase of aircraft for calibration of devices that are installed in radar or flight control systems has fallen. For the third time, because it wasn't the price - it was the commission. So let me ask, why was a member of the board of directors brought into control by a man from Pink? What does TV Pink have to do with flying control? In flight control brought Sladjan Ivkovic - 500 000 salaries, an associate for malfeasance at a time when he worked at Belgrade Airport, when she was a minister, remember that famous affair with a ficus of 50 and more thousand dinars. Djuro Bjelobaba from the Ponykva Airport, then hired a woman, and a daughter, as Mr. Ilic says - more grandchildren and dogs to bring and all to finish. Deputy flight control president Maksimovic Lazar - Lazo, brother of Aunt Milo Djukanovic. It has not yet been established, nor has anyone investigated where the money of the 1990s that the flight control charged for all the flyovers went missing. Since we were under sanctions, money could not be raised, money was paid to BiH in one bank, after which there is no money, no trace. Since I haven't finished, I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8245	Mr. Zeljko Tomic has given up, thank you. The word is Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I need information to perform the function of the MP. I need a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia: when will the competent authorities start work to investigate criminal activities in public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, especially at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport in Belgrade? The data exists and it is the basis for an investigation by the budgetary inspection, the MUP, the public prosecutor. We believe that no security has the right to deny these organs the right to do their job. But it looks like these organs don't want to start doing their job. The fact that money's supposed to be returned by those who took it by who knows why, is no reason not to investigate such a great crime. The government wants these shops to be covered up, so that's why the state authorities aren't doing anything. SRS lawmakers have been pointing to these developments for several days, data exist, and therefore the basis for crime and corruption to get in the way. Serbian citizens, too, are on the side of the truth, and SRS MPs will always protect the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8247	The word comes from MP Dragan Stevanovic, and then from Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8248	Madam President, I went out to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 103 and 104 that you already want, it doesn't matter, because there are elements in either one and the other. I believe that you treat the MPs, especially the MPs of the SRS, with very little respect and thus violate the dignity of the Assembly. Yesterday at 11:30, you interrupted the meeting of the Assembly, calling on the Rules of Procedure of course, explaining that it is necessary to consult with the heads of Parliament, and after that to leave the Assembly building, I assume you will go to the government or Andric's wreath and have some additional talks. At 4:00 a.m., the session of the Assembly was continued without any explanation or words of four hours of rest, which objectively devoted themselves to something. Perhaps Mrs. Comic was not authorized to speak and speak on your behalf. After you came in half an hour, one of the tracks we heard from this pay phone, not of course yours, but on the left, you interrupted the session again. Today's session continues in the same atmosphere, without a single answer. You go out, or you give yourself the right to propose or suggest to the MPs of the SRS that we understand the weight and importance of the laws we need to adopt. We fully understand that, and importance, and value and meaning. However, the question arises whether you are ready to get out of this situation at all. You are not obliged to beg anyone to understand the importance of the law, and even less, you have the right to be a hostage of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, unfortunately, the corrupt governmental deputies, this time, Bojan Krishta. What message are you sending to us in Serbia, what message are you sending to yours, to say, the European perspective? After this and this silence of the government, will you and us in the Assembly, first and foremost the representative of the congregation's majority, be opened to you the doors of pre-accession funds? Does the road to Serbia lead across the Disseldorf? Is Bojan Kristo an exemplar of our European perspectives? You have to imagine above that, not to convince us on the right how important and important the laws that are on the agenda are. And we want to talk about them, and we have something to tell you about them. But on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs, above all, the SRS that launched this job, you must bring an end to the work and those who are thieves and criminals brought to justice. If anyone has the right to do so in this country, it is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8249	Mr. Stevanović, since you spoke directly to me, let me answer you. Of course, I've also consulted on the outcome of the consultation, and I've notified the heads of Parliament, including your head of Parliament. Secondly, I have not addressed only the MPs of one side, I always address all of us in this room. Third thing I'd like to say to you, I really don't think the MPs of this House should be doing any research or arresting. What we need to do is we have a legislative and supervisory function, of course, and a representative function. I just remind you of our business obligations. I fully agree with you that none of these obligations we have are more or less important. But the way this congregation has also informed the public, and certain institutions and bodies is such that today’s work in the congregation is truly an inability to deal with legislative activity. It can be a replica, but in the end. Crime can't be kept silent, but crime can't be nominated by us MPs. You know what organs they are. Here, Mrs. Radeta is next to you, as an excellent lawyer, she can send a parliamentary group to inform in that sense who she is who puts the label - a criminal. Mr. Zoran Krasic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8250	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I appeal to Article 27. I want to tell you that you've been in violation of it all along. The way you do it, the way you break it, you remind me a little bit like you've applied to an empty place that's headed by the Serbian mafia. Because you don't let the debate take place here. I must remind you that for years this assembly has been a kind of victim of journalists, G 17 plus, experts and those for planetary integration. It was created by citizens that the National Assembly is the source of all the troubles that citizens have at work, in the house and on the street. Finally, the National Assembly, as a whole, began to act and thanks to the fact that we now need to demascate what the global financial crisis is. We've seen that G 17 plus, rightly, goes where the money is. They're running away from this director of the Nis Construction Directorate, because you know, he's a folk MP and he's doing it there under the labour contract, not in a working relationship. They pull and they don't have the measures to pull. We finally opened this topic to see the citizens why they live badly, and you're preventing that discussion. Why are you stopping? Because you need to open the bench, see all the public enterprises, and G17 plus, and DS and all these others, which show great coalition capacity when you need to steal and form power. That debate has to be opened. The National Assembly is authorized to exercise control of the executive authority and do not prevent us. The fact that it's hard for you to get a letter from the government, that she entered financially, that she came in, here, please, pick up the passports so that Jelasic doesn't run away, that the other one doesn't run away, that this third one doesn't run away, Dinkic comes first. Please, Dinkic is suing me for words from this pay phone. When he heard who my witnesses would be, the poor thing ran away. Did you protect the pay phone? Did you protect the MPs? Did you protect the fight against crime? No, but you're putting us to sleep with some songs - we should be passing laws. What laws? Whom do these laws oblige in Serbia? Just regular citizens. Do they commit G17 plus? They don't commit. Do they bind DS? They don't commit. What are we bringing them for? Dear citizens, you know, prepare for planetary fraud... (President: Time. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8251	I have no idea to put anyone to sleep, especially you. The word has Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, we've heard a lot here, but you're trying, as usual, to avoid giving a quality answer, to avoid the government taking responsibility for all this crime, and now I'm going to give you a few examples of agriculture. I'm reporting to members 225 and 226 and requesting an answer from the Ministry of Agriculture. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in fact on November 20th, approved a purchase for 96,000 tonnes of corn stores. What does this mean? This means another scam from our farmer. Instead of the government and the Ministry of Agriculture making a decision to buy the family in 2007, when the price of corn was 16 and 18 dinars, it fell rapidly to 9 and 8 dinars, where our farmer lost double. Now, in the purchase of corn, our farmer, based on JUS quality, was getting between 6.50 and 7.20 dinars, where he couldn't cover the costs invested in production. In this way, only tycoons will profit, and in these 96,000 tonnes of corn, believe it or not, which is only one part of Serbia's production, one small part, 1.2m euros is the price difference. When it comes to the government's regulation that allows farmers to regress a 40,000-tonne artificial fertilizer, the last delivery was Monday. Our farmer has already processed the country. Suddenly, the three 15-year-old Fertil's artist flooded the Serbian market, where the tycoons also profited. I guarantee you that half of that artist didn't make it to the field, which is about a million euros, where the tycoons on the black market made a profit. For this, the Ministry of Agriculture will receive accurate information in writing, and we'll see how you respond. So I don't go too far, there's a lot to do with agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8253	Mr. Milorad Buha, then Marko Milenkovic, then Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. I am looking for information on what has been done by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance and the competent inspection services in these ministries regarding the verification of the SRS' allegations in the last two years to drastically violate legal regulations, to violate official duties by the director, the chairman of the boards of directors, members of boards, management staff in public enterprises, and what is specifically taken up by the competent state authorities? I will point out here only one anti-cancer shop of many, it is the activities of the Public Enterprise "Nikola Tesla" Belgrade, which began in 2005, when a business co-operation agreement was concluded. 917/05 with OZB Komerc DOO on the engagement of the task force for the operation of the reception and dispatch of aircraft, physical security, data processing services and the like. I will provide you with the information that, for 2006, 268,574,000 were paid on the basis of this contract alone. For physical and technical security services 112,514,000. Data processing costs 57,763,000. A total of six million euros. In 2007, the service accepted and dispatched the plane 257.085,000. Physical and technical security services 133,742,000. Data processing costs 512117,000. A total of five million euros. Is this what the government didn't know about? Were the authorities not aware of this, in line with the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises, of their obligation to exercise control and control over the work of these companies? They knew about everything, and that's why they have to answer. In normal, civilized, modern states, when data like this is obtained, and the state has done nothing about it, the government resigns in the situation. This is the moment when the government has to resign. Now we're talking about Kristo resigning and leaving. We can't let that happen. The Management Board must leave, all competent authorities who were obliged to monitor the implementation and normal work and business of all public enterprises must leave. In the end, the government has to leave, because this is the time to leave, because it has to bear the consequences for all these illegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8255	The word is Marko Milenkovic, and let the Free Maras be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226 of our Rules of Procedure. I request a notice from the Prime Minister – whether the Ministry of Finance will send a budget inspection, and the MUP UBPOKN Airport "Nikola Tesla" that there will be the smallest details of the robbery of Bojan Krište, that these data are delivered to the public prosecutor and that the government thus shows a minimum desire to fight crime, or that citizens finally make sure that you have no intention of such a thing. The MPs of the SRS have been asking for all this for the third day, plus the release of Bojan Krist. We did not ask for the Minister of Economy and Regional Development of the City of Belgrade or perhaps his ski resorts to teach him to resign and temporarily move out of the country, to return when dust settles, to get a new task and pass without any consequences. His mentor, Mladjan Dinkic, cannot say that he is an extraordinary manager, and where did he prove himself to be a good manager, in Galenica, perhaps the Serbia lottery or airport? He may have been a good manager, but only for himself and his closer environment, robbing the money of Serbian citizens, who are living harder and harder. On the other hand, or perhaps on the same side, the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic is not an actor, so that through the media he criticises this Bojan Krist, he has all the necessary mechanisms to process all these thefts, as would be done in all civilized states. If that does not happen, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a huge responsibility, because it cannot be counted only with non-insects within its own parties, but you must also have this obedient Bojan Kriste to discipline and show that no one is on God's side to rob Serbian citizens, neither he nor others encrypted with these astronomical salaries and bonuses of a million and two million dinars in a month. We're sure that the budgetary inspection and the UBPOK will determine all the accomplices, but all the authorities who knew about this and didn't do anything, everyone has to bear the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8257	The word has Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8258	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this is already the third or fourth day we've been working this way, that is, the way that clearly corresponds to the ruling majority. But the problem is next, Madam President, and I really expect you to react. We are all witnesses that the budget of directors and boards of public enterprises is being emptied in a no-good way. The government's reaction is not mild, but through a minor love letter which the minister, or the prime minister, addressed to some in this assembly, however, the government's secretary is trying to amortise a problem that is really big or trying to transfer the problem that is really great to the burden of the Assembly, letting MPs try to exorcise here something that only the authorities who are responsible for it. What's the problem? We don't have any organs, except for one government secretary's promise. What is the second situation that worries us terribly? The governor of the National Bank has directed over 600m euros to the interbank foreign exchange market in an effort to save dinar collapse, resulting from the major financial crisis. The problem is that Serbia's foreign reserves are not private property, which is one guarantee of the security of citizens of this country. I believe in the good intentions of Governor Jelasic, however, whether this is the right way to find out, unless we try to read the media that are clearly conducted from one center. We have a budget that is 27-28 days late to be in front of MPs, that we can put quality amendments on it, but apparently that budget will hardly pass today and the government. We have Vojislav Kostunica as President of the Council for European Integration. We'd really like to see how these things can be solved, and I'm offering one solution. Before you discuss mistrust, bring the government here, ask the prime minister today when he's done with the government to come here, to answer some questions. As my colleague Judita Popovic said, we must return life to this assembly, we will not return it by crossing the amendments that are up and acting like that famous bust, I see nothing, I hear nothing, I'm not saying anything. We can't do that. I'd like you to show the right measure and not interrupt this assembly, but try to find a solution, I know you can't do it yourself, President. We will help you by starting to work on the amendments, but we want to see a previous reaction from the government, a reaction from the authorities. Why it's hard to send a budget inspection to the airport, UBPOK to the airport, a budget inspection in all public enterprises. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: To open Pandora's box. ) I ask you to warn Mr. Todorovic, he throws it away, I've exceeded the time, but I ask the presidents to use your authority, as you have already done several times, and to try to resolve this situation, unless it gives you, for some reason, space to do something that we will see in a few days what it is, or if you are not comfortable with this situation in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8259	Thank you. I assure you that I am making the most of my effort, first of all in this room, and in every place we continue our work. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8260	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 100, and in relation to Article 226, I request an explanation. Here in the press today are the texts on page five-six that Serbia has won some victory in the UN. Namely, it is said that victory has been achieved in the UN Security Council because it adopted recommendations by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon on the reorganisation of a civilian mission in Kosovo and gave the green light to deploy Eulex. Unfortunately, despite our good wishes and many initiatives, we have failed to point to the execution of this policy by the Serbian government, which I am going to quote these statements made by Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic: The key condition for us to accept EULEX has always been a clear commitment by the EU. That's exactly the problem we've been pointing to. One of our problems at the level of a global organisation, such as the UN, is returning to EU level, and we know how the EU treats the Republic of Serbia and we know what the fate of the remaining Serbian people in KIM will be. The explicit language of the report confirms the status neutrality of Eulex, which is a guarantee that no part of his mandate can be based on Ahtisaari's plan. So from whom Marty Ahtisaari was given an assignment rather than just from the EU to make a plan, to create a programme so that one mission would come to finish what NATO villains began back in 1999. "We will join the EU with high-ranking heads, with the preservation of sovereignty and territorial integrity. Like most other peoples, my people went through the days of glory, through the days of tragedy. Sometimes tragedy opens up the possibility of reaching new heights. ''Tratedia, these are the remaining Serbian people at KIM, and new heights will reach the rest of Serbia, which will join the EU in 2030, I guarantee there will be no sooner. Is that the price to sacrifice one people, one territory, to reach some heights in the next 20-30 years? This is a shame and a disgrace, and such a statement is commented on as a victory for Serbian diplomacy, as a victory for Serbian politics, as a victory for the world. And we had one constant policy that we could stall these problems with, not to allow the Eulex mission to be installed on KIM, to wait for better times and better deployment of forces in world politics, and then to go into offensive and save KIM. This is one introduction of a major betrayal by the government in the Republic of Serbia. They leave at the mercy of the Serb people in KIM, which is a disgrace to this state and a shame to the government, as well as to this parliament, who did not have the strength to adopt a resolution that would be binding, but was thrown under the rug, just as all these affairs are being thrown under the carpet, and how they are being placed at these moments would forget what is most important, and that is to take away in one quiet way the territory of KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8261	Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word now. I would ask, since we have heard from all MPs' groups and mostly heard the reasons for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that after Mr Ostojic's presentation, we should still move on to work on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8262	Mr President, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, I am advertising the violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. It is not the job of the MPs to say, that the government hears and that it is all over, that the work of the MPs is to influence social events and control the government. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, this is an ideal opportunity for what the LDP has been saying since its founding, to begin with the decommissioning of the party state now. This is an appeal to you. Indeed, public opinion is willing to accept this, but I'm afraid none of this is going to happen, because as it turns out, this was used among other things for some kind of accounting or some sort of settlement within you around the budget. How else do you explain that when LDP and the SRS opened this up a month ago, the media did not accept this topic. Then, suddenly, a few days ago, Kristo became the main subject. Look at the wonders, when the president of the state, who normally has no authority under the Constitution when it comes to public enterprises, came forward and said it was insolent, immoral and arrogant. Well, it's not, we think it's a crime of abuse of official office. We insist that this matter be cleared up until the end when it comes to Kristo, but we think that, gentlemen of the radicals, is not the essence of the Cross. This requires a lesson, primarily the ruling coalition, to stop the waste of people's money through these dinosaurs, public enterprises. You know that we are in favour of privatising public enterprises and we believe that this is the only way to begin with the decommissioning of the party state. There are those among you who don't think it should, but it doesn't matter, it's important that the atmosphere created in society should lead to the absolutely normal work of these public enterprises until they are privatized. I know most of you don't like what happened, and I know you're ashamed of the behavior of individuals from G17 plus. For example, Mr. Vujadinovic, I remember how many texts he wrote about dinosaurs to public enterprises, about the party state. None of this will be and none of these laws that we need to pass at this session will be used only for some reckoning and measuring forces within your ruling coalition. If you are consistent in fighting corruption and crime, which the president of the party and the president of the state keeps saying, then in the first next case, at the Belgrade City Assembly, we will see if you can get five directors of health institutions in Belgrade. If you don't change them, which means this is only for some kind of budget fight between you, who's going to lose a little more money, who's going to get it. There are a lot of things that need to be cleared up when it comes to public enterprises. It's not about pay. We're hearing money back here, so, Dragan, how can they get the money back? They can borrow companies and then have the right to seek back. Bookkeeping is impossible to pay back. It can't just end up on immorality, it's a crime, and that demagogue story about money returns, or money can come back without saying that all these receipts are paid taxes and contributions that can certainly not be paid with a payment. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8263	Gentlemen, you have been presented with a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration, which accepted the amendment of MP Srdjan Spasojevic to article 44, with a correction. Since this amendment with correction has also been accepted by a proposing representative during the search, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible, I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since I asked on several occasions to return to the agenda, and the atmosphere is unchanged, I ask the heads of the parliamentary groups to come to the meeting at 11:30, and we will have a break by 14.00 hours. [[After break – 14.10]] Gentlemen Members of Parliament, you have probably been informed by the heads of Parliament's groups that in this pause we have had agreements, meetings, that we have concluded that our communication with the Government should be formal, although I think it is always more important that it is essential, but most of the heads of Parliament have insisted on such communication and on concreteising what the Government is planning and what resolute ministries should specifically in the coming period, and on these discussions that we have these days, take some action. The government's sitting is in progress and my information is that by 15.00 hours we'll be able to have a definitive government position. We have two options: one option is to extend this break to 15.00 hours, and another, if we're not going to advertise the Rules of Procedure but to work, to work. Now I'm really looking at the right side. Are we in the mood to work on the amendments? You want us to wait. Please extend the break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45 and suggested that this provision be deleted. It is not clear from the proposed norm how the other conditions for selecting a judge will be established in his first election. Before joining the selection of each judicial office holder, it is necessary and necessary to build criteria and criteria on which either a judge or a public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor should be elected. Without established criteria and criteria, it is not possible to make an adequate and correct choice. This requires first and foremost building criteria and criteria, and then joining the choice of a legal holder. This is how we're going to have a situation where many who are not in favour of performing a judicial office or a legal holder, whether it's the prosecutors or the judges, will get away with it and we'll have such candidates and those kind of staff who won't meet the needs of our society. If you take England, France, Germany and other countries of parallel law, you will see that the judge becomes after 20 years of experience, spent by a candidate for a judge on certain duties and certain legal professions, and above all in the judiciary in all possible referendums. It is only then that after serious preparation for the judge's office, because the judge's office is a great privilege. At least in parallel law, that's how a judge function is treated. Since it is an extraordinary privilege, many parents, as well as a candidate who wants to be a judge, the holder of a judicial function, are investing huge material resources for his education and his preparation, so that he can compete and be a candidate for the holder of the judicial office. With that in mind, I will point out again that in England he becomes a judge at the age of 52, and that the judge of the Upper House of Lords, as the highest legal instance, becomes at the age of 62. So we can't accept the criteria offered under this law, especially when it comes to working internships or work experience where the candidate for judge or prosecutor has worked before competition and candidacy. It is therefore necessary to prescribe a longer period of time, in order to achieve the quality of the staff to be appointed and elected as judges and public prosecutors. In France, let me point out, such a case is a line in the world, because France has taken over certain institutes of English law. French candidates for judges are trained under special treatment, even isolated, for 30 days going to prison to experience the atmosphere they are in prison to know what decisions they need to make. Therefore, when it comes to the holders of judicial functions, this must be strictly taken into account, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The judge is not a matchmaker. The DA's not a matchmaker. These are serious professions, serious people and serious personnel have to come. In the selection of judicial officials, I particularly stress, it is necessary to keep in mind and take account and stop politicising the judiciary. I want to talk about a very negative phenomenon when it comes to the work of the judiciary. Many will agree, who know certain cases, which is nepotism in the judiciary. Now, on one occasion, I'm going to explain this to you. In one small court, the president of the court is a son-in-law, the daughter is a judge of the municipal court, the other is the president of the law enforcement authority, and the father-in-law is a lawyer. That was the case in Nova Varosha. In Novi Varosha, this was the case when I visited other places. Now, secondly, what do you say when you have a case like this, a relationship between a lawyer, a court and a prosecutor's office. The wife of the judge or the husband of the judge, and the opposite of the lawyer. Now the second-degree court judge solves the appeal of his spouse's lawyer, and, in addition to being ugly, the prosecution has a godfather's relationship. Therefore, major problems with judicial officials and judges and prosecutors arise as a negative phenomenon. This phenomenon is godfatherly, friendly relationships and relationships on other grounds, which I will talk about when the other amendments are on the agenda. So, nepotism in the judiciary. What else is dangerous? The D.A. becomes a lawyer, the judge goes to law school, works in a place where there's a small number of judges. You can imagine the situation. The problems are here. There's corruption and crime. We need to clear that up once and put it in the face. If it could be rooted out that one who came from the judiciary to the office of prosecutor or judge, this situation would be far better than corruption. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the work of the judicial authorities, I'd like to say something about economic courts. Madam President, you'll allow me, I own a rule on the basics and criteria for determining the reward for work and compensation for the costs of bankruptcy managers. Just to inform you, who didn't have a chance to see the provisions of Article 4 of this Regulation brought by the Ministry of Economy. One rule was passed in 2005, this rule I own in 2008. Look, in Article 4 - the amount of the prize for the entire bankruptcy period is determined as follows, pay attention, based on 2,001 euros, the award for the bankruptcy manager is 2,000 euros, and if only one euro over 2000 crosses, it has an increase of 20%. This means, if the basis was that some company was bankrupt and that the value of its assets was only 2,001 euros. So 2,400 euros needs to be taken from the bankruptcy. Furthermore, if the value of the bankruptcy is less than 25,001 euros, up to 50,000 euros, while the award for the bankruptcy manager is 6,600 euros, increased by 8%. So, you see what robbery this is, this is a new vision and a new form in Serbia of crime, new vision and new form of crime, ladies and gentlemen of the people. I'll just tell you on one occasion what's going on. I checked with the Trade Court today in Panchev, there's a bankruptcy case against Agroziv. There's a bankruptcy procedure going on over Agroziv, and the bankruptcy manager is Moldovan Stevan from Subotica. How did this Mr. Stevan Moldovan from Subotica get in Pancheva? Who has appointed him and appointed him, by his decision, who has signed the decision, and in Panchev you have hundreds and hundreds and economists, and lawyers and men of the profession, for that particular area. Just one thing to tell you, according to my data I came to in that court, is to be paid to Moldovan Stevan 650,000 euros for bankruptcy over Agroziv in Panchev. Ladies and gentlemen, the judge cannot make it from Saturday to Panchev without 4,500 to 5,000 euros, one arrival. Secondly, I'm asking a question and I'm asking for an answer, Madam President, how many Moldovan Stevan are conducting bankruptcy proceedings? How much did he lead from 2001 to today, and how much money did he take with the subjects where he did the art? In addition, Madam President, through the competent Supreme Court, please forward the question, and request a notice and an answer to our question: how much has been paid in euro by the bankruptcy director of Belgrade's Robing Houses? According to some of my findings, it is millions of euros, which would mean, if it is established, and we will certainly get that report in the Assembly, that every worker has been damaged by thousands of euros employed in Belgrade's department stores. So, ladies and gentlemen, the matter is very serious, today I am telling you and the citizens of Serbia, it is a new form of crime organized in a cloud of bankruptcy. The bankruptcy mafia isn't covered. Who's in here? It must be placed under control and bankrupt managers, and warlocks and all those involved in determining the height of the bankruptcy mass. How much of the bankruptcy should be excluded now and, as the rule says here, to reward the bankruptcy manager? Now that's a reward, but that's illegal and that's a robbery. I would ask one study to carry out a competent ministry and to determine all bankruptcys back five years in commercial courts, so that we can have information on who the bankruptcy managers were, how much payments were made, how much damage was done to the trustees. Workers in these companies that go under bankruptcy are just damaged because they are being taken from their masses and given a reward, as this rule says. (President: Time. ) Here, Mr. Todorovic, this regulation was signed by Minister Dinkic. I am asking Minister Dinkic and I am asking the competent ministry to put this rule out of force and it can no longer be a reward, because it is not exactly in these conditions in which poor Serbia is living well to say - a reward for an expert. (President: Mr. Jojić, will you, please, bring the thought to an end. Thank you. I'll finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8267	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8268	Mr. Jojic, I'm not "achieving." This is an affair. Easy, let's get this over with with Nicole Tesla's Airport first. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have received a new letter from the government. We will accept it as sincere, as a real desire for the government to respond to the warnings of the MPs of the Serbian Parliament as the government must react, that is, how all state authorities must react. This is a more concrete letter than before, but taught by the experiences we have, I have to give a slight warning to the government, that behind this letter, without doubting good intentions, some things must also be concreteized. First of all, that means we're expecting information tomorrow that a budget inspection has been sent to Nicole Tesla Airport. As for these other public enterprises, agencies and all that, we don't mind. Not only do we have nothing against it, but we welcome it and we insist on it, but we expect to get notice tomorrow that a budget inspection has entered Nicola Tesla Airport, because I told you this morning, we have serious warnings that a large number of documents are being removed from the "Nikola Tesla" airport that the people of Bojan Krist do so. He has an extremely high experience on this, as the trade has been well baked in Serbia's state lottery. His security, which is still at the airport, doesn't allow anyone else to come, they can't even enter the premises where these documents are. This is also a warning to the government. It is a pity that so much time has been lost, primarily because of the damage already done and can be done to the state of Serbia, and also because the Assembly had to wait so long to wait for a completely logical and normal gesture of the government. Just today, it was enough to hear that Bojan Kristo had 2,600,000, which is about 32,500 euros. If you take the average salary in Serbia to be something like 30,000 dinars, then it turns out that Bojan Kristo had, like, 100 salaries in one month. Look how many other directors at Nicole Tesla Airport had. It's really amazing data that requires an emergency investigation and definitely a government determination when it comes to public enterprises, when it comes to spending budgets, not spending, but archiving, robbery. We expect the government, too, to inform us of the first results of the investigation in the coming week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8269	Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8270	I would like to say, on behalf of the LDP, that all our efforts, that is, our struggle over the past days, to force the government, or the state, to do everything in its power to ensure that the business of public enterprises in the state of Serbia is conducted in accordance with the law, that is, to examine all possible malversions, through this letter has nevertheless produced some result. We also want to believe that the government's intention is sincere, that it will do everything possible to, not only when it comes to the airport, but all public enterprises, carry out complete control and that we will get results soon. We from the LDP are ready to wait a few days, five days, and hear some results based on the investigation that was conducted, if possible. We sincerely hope that this government statement will not be in some way an attempt to get the story out of the way. That's why we're ready to wait a few days, next week, and see what the government has said it will do. As with colleagues from the SRS, we will continue to work in accordance with the agenda, more specifically to work on the amendments. This is, I hope, the doctrine of the government and the ruling majority, that it is not necessary for parliament to be blocked in order for the government to do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8271	It is obvious that we will expect the government's report on the course of all the actions that the ministry has taken in line with the text that has been delivered to us. Of course, we expect the government to inform us regularly. After all, they wrote it in a memo. Mr. Zeljko Tomic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8272	President-in-Office, Honored Presidency, Honored fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am reporting by members of 225 and 226. A few friends and acquaintances from Novi Sad asked me to go out for a pay phone and say what I'm going to say, of course, say. I am speaking to Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nebojsa Bradic, as well as the whole, first of all, the newly-saded and then the rest of the public in the Republic of Serbia. In the recent history of Novi Sad, it was ruled by both fascists and communists, and socialists, and radicals and Democrats. The authorities were changing, but Novi Sad, among other things, always had one thing, and it was a movie. Today there is no movie theater in Novi Sad, believe it or not. There's a new Sad glamorous film festival, but there's no cinema. The last two movies have been shut down. I call on the government, both in the Republic of Serbia and in the province of Vojvodina and in the town of Novi Sad, to do something about it. I remind you, Novi Sad is known in Serbia as "Serbian Athens", as a cultural capital in Serbs. Now may I, for example, ask Mr. Hajdarevic if there is a movie in Priboj? Yes, it's nice to meet you. Mr. Pejcic, perhaps in Leskovac? It's got, like, three pieces. What do we do now with those quasi-elitist passwords "the more southern the sadder" and I don't know what? Now I have arguments to use "the more southern the culture". Who's going to solve it and when? I'm not saying that this government choked on those cinemas of the Arena and the Adriatic, the most innovative New Sad cinemas. I'm just saying she didn't do anything to stop the movie from shutting down. The citizens of Novi Sad are more than gunned down, and one so-called Pro-European, so-called The reform authority allowed Serbia's Athens, the centre of culture in Serbs, the city with an eminent film festival, but no cinema. There's no blockbuster now, there's nothing where you can look at the movie, only in the home version, through a piracy that's normally forbidden by law. This is what we've come to and what we'll remember during your so-called absolute government, from the level of the Republic to the level of the city of Novi Sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8273	Thank you. I'd just like to let you know that, in accordance with Article 85, we're going to continue our work after 1800 hours, to a decent time, I think some game transfer will begin at 20.45 hours. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 49. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8274	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, reporting on this amendment submitted by a colleague from the NS. I would also point out that the LDP supports this amendment for the following reasons. According to Article 50, otherwise this member refers to the proposal of judges who are first elected, when proposing candidates for the first time to be elected to the judge's office, in addition to expertise, training and dignity, the High Judicial Council will particularly appreciate the type of cases that the candidate has conducted after the judicial examination has been passed. So that's a member's first position. For candidates coming from the order of judicial assistants, a labour assessment is required. That's attitude 2. What the amendment proposes is that it replaces the words "can" the "must" of the 3rd article's stance, which says - before proposing the High Council of the Judiciary can hold a conversation with the registered candidates. Taking into account the position of the 1st and 2nd members, it can be understood why this word "can" be replaced by the word "must". I would refer again to Article 45, which is closely linked to this Article 50, because that member defines what the expertise of the candidate judges means. The expertise involves having the theoretical and practical knowledge necessary to perform the judicial function. I'm asking you, how will the High Council of the judiciary determine whether the candidate has the necessary expertise to perform the judicial function if he doesn't even see the candidate? Training, according to this Article 45, involves skills that enable the effective application of specific legal skills in solving court cases. I ask the question, how will the High Judicial Council determine candidate training if he hasn't talked to him before, if he hasn't even seen the candidate before? Normally, the High Council of the Judiciary has been left at will to hold that conversation with the candidate at all. Dignity, under Article 45, involves moral qualities that a judge should also possess in accordance with these qualities. I ask the question, how will the High Council of the judiciary, if it does not see and speak to the candidate, determine that it is the same for the performance of the judge's duties. The moral traits prescribed by this Article 45, which the judge is to possess, are: honesty, security, justice, dignity, perseverance and exemplaryness, and conduct according to these qualities implies keeping the reputation of the judge and the court in service and outside of it, etc. I ask the question, how will the High Council of the judiciary determine whether this candidate has moral traits that are binding on this article in 45 if he does not hold a previous interview with the candidate? By the way, it is the High Council of the judiciary that determines the criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise under Article 45. Which is the greatest absurd of all, and in this position of Article 2, Article 50, for candidates coming from the order of the judicial assistants, it is mandatory to obtain an assessment of the work. So those who are already in court, the judicial assistants, who are literally constantly under some control by the judges, will be required to obtain an evaluation of the work. What about those candidates who aren't here by the hand, they're not judicial assistants, etc.? Now that all of this is considered, isn't it more logical and rational and normal that the word "can", so, leaving someone at will, replace the word "must," so, binding one premise. Otherwise, we have received an explanation of why this amendment is not accepted, and it is said - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the regulation of this obligation would affect the efficiency and urgency of the work of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. What does it matter, then, that the High Council of the Judiciary is working quickly or doing better? Therefore, it should be considered that what is done is smart, be effective, be rational and in the general interest of society, especially the Serbian judiciary. Therefore, no matter how long this will take, the High Judicial Council must assess candidates, not on a flat-rate basis, only some data that some others serve to the High Council of the Judiciary, decide who is a prominent candidate who should be proposed to choose for the judge for the first time. It is very important, therefore, in the beginning to determine whether certain persons have certain qualities to be judges, and not to leave that after three years of training to be done again, some assessment that could have been done much earlier, because we have already lost some three years if we have chosen people who are not alike, do not have all of these qualities that the High Council of the Judiciary predicted. The High Council of the judiciary has a primary obligation to take care of what kind of people will be elected as judges, because that is the alpha and omega of the future independent judiciary. If they fail to do so in quality, then we are free of all laws, whatever they call them European, reformist, reformist, whatever you want, it is only important to choose the right people and the right candidates. If it's a priority for the work of the High Council of Justice, then I don't see any reason why they're free of these obligations. So it's one of the obligations of the High Council of the Judiciary, and it's an obligation for them to organise their work, to be as efficient and as efficient as possible, and not to be freed from these obligations, because that's normal, which is why we're here discussing whether we need new laws on judges, the High Council of the judiciary and the other laws that are on the agenda. Therefore, given that this amendment is very rational and we believe that it improves the quality of this Article 50, and normally it will produce certain results of general interest, we propose that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8275	According to the amendment, Mr. Zoran Krasic first answered, and then you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8276	Mr Spasojevic's amendment and Mr Peter Jojic's amendment, although it concerns two different members, still make up one continent, but only if the government's answers to the two amendments are looked at. Now, to be interesting to the MPs who, of course, have rightly forgotten home on the bill's piano, so they are unable to see what the citizens who are following this transmission are doing, to make it more interesting to them, the situation is about next. The government of the Republic of Serbia has prescribed that a judge will be elected by a man who can jump seven metres in distance - that is Article 45. The 50th says -- it's going to be by the High Council of Justice proposed candidate for whom we don't have to determine if he's jumped that far. For that to be even better, for some who are aching, it is about as if the court had reached a verdict and wrote in the verdict - Paraskeva Minić must love Peter Miniæ because he is her husband. Then the executive should carry out that verdict and determine whether she loves her husband by law and judgment. You sigh, but I mean, Mrs. Malovic, this child of yours (the speaker laughs), you're pregnant, and that's good, he'll be an extremely good lawyer, because he's learning right in his stomach. There's a big difference. Look, you gave an explanation for the 45th article like this - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 45. The bill prescribes other conditions for selecting judges and so on - expertise, skills and dignity. On the occasion of the amendment to Article 50, you answer - that it is not accepted for reasons why the regulation of this obligation would affect the efficiency and urgency of the work of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. That's two completely contradictory answers. In the first answer, you say -- it's a matter of expertise, dignity, that has to be taken care of. In the rejection of the second amendment, you say - because of the efficiency we don't even have to talk to the candidates, we don't have to, but it's enough to see the picture through the site. Without that conversation, I don't know if the High Court's advice will come to the conclusion whether a person exists or doesn't exist. You say, if the word "must" is put in instead, then there's a commitment. And there's got to be a commitment. There should be an obligation of the High Council of the judiciary to do its job, not to be an alternative -- it can, if it wants, if it doesn't, not necessarily. If he doesn't have to, then the question is, what's he gonna decide, who's gonna decide? The zero composition of the High Council of the Judiciary, these are those who are allegedly on the basis of calling, knowledge, and I don't know what members become and in the first encounter share fate -- who can, who can't judge, who meets the conditions, who doesn't meet the conditions. Now I have to go back, since these two amendments are related to what you prescribed in Article 45. If you read what you wrote here as some imperial norm about conditions that have to be met by candidates and pretenders, then you have to tell me -- can anyone find a cantar to measure this? Here, let's take one criterion. It says - dignity implies the moral traits that the judge should possess and conduct according to these qualities. If you don't want to have a conversation - then I don't know how you're going to appreciate if someone has fulfilled the criteria of dignity? Dignity implies, fiction is already being created, moral traits are being created. Is the High Council of the Court in the Zero Chamber, no matter what it may be, here I will not take any active ones, I will take someone who was once a judge, and is now retired, Zoran Ivosevic, so that he can assess the dignity of a candidate? Come on, tell me on what criteria, based on what criteria? What would be a unit of measures? The unit of measures would probably be something used by Milka Babovic in her transmissions -- sequins, visual effects. But what if they don't want to talk to the candidate, they don't want to see the candidate? They'll say, "Please, we don't want to look at it." Here, the High Council of the Court, if for the basic court, I'm talking about the data, for example 50 judges, and 250 candidates competed -- the High Council of the judiciary doesn't want to talk to 250 candidates, but they want to have a discretionary right to read 70, 50 of those for which the Democratic Party has decided to be judges, 20 for decoration, and these others are not interested in the conversation. So if you already have a position, and I'm sure you don't have a position as a government on these draft laws, then you have to be consistent, so logically continue what is your basic position from one member to another member, from one amendment to another amendment. The attitude must be seen, because we need to assess, to convince us - that you force this law to be something that represents a new quality, a new system of values, not discretion and self-will. Where there's discretion, where there's will, where there's volunteerism -- there's no right. And this is a bill of law that tends to be the law. If you are proposing a European law without an attitude, without an opinion, without something that is consistent in thinking, then why are you angry when someone with such an amendment warns you? Just so you know, for your draft laws, the best amendments to the article are deleted. These are the most powerful amendments, because they best paint the quality of your bill. We're going to another criterion. Let's see how that High Council of the Court in the Zero, that's what they're chosen -- 11 of those by function and 8 to be chosen, to work. He says - the moral traits that the judge should possess are: honesty, please the viewers not to be allowed, security, justice, dignity, perseverance and exemplaryness. And behaviour in accordance with these qualities implies -- keeping the reputation of the judge and the court in and outside the service; awareness of social responsibility; maintaining independence and impartiality, reliability and dignity in and outside the service, and taking responsibility for the internal organisation and a positive picture of the judiciary in the public. Now, this is all nice. I hope that this thought process with Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, as an ideologist of the Democratic Party and close associate Boris Tadic, on major state issues, that is, you can calculate the intensity, degree and all the criteria, so that these moral characteristics of a person are expressed valuablely, so that you can convince me who, for example, does not know what this means. I expect everything, given your high I.Q., there's no problem. Just so you know, the standard is not -- the arson of the National Assembly or the Federal Assembly. If we take that as a criterion -- you've met the conditions for prison, but now we're not talking about it. We're talking about judges, not convicts. Conviction is enough for convicts. Convicted. We're talking about judges who should judge cases like you. So, can anyone measure this? Is such a blemishmeter invented - so the candidate for the judge is involved and he says: the coefficient of expertise 2.1; the coefficient of morality 1.1; the coefficient of dignity 0.6? In doing so, such bill proposals should be discussed by those who have stolen mandates, who have shown great dignity, morality, respect for God, family, oaths, friends, loyalty to the Constitution, loyalty to the law, loyalty to security, honesty, and all that. Of course, and we don't have that escalator to measure. You're not surprised that the judges aren't coming back, and this is where they present themselves. Dear viewers, imagine the situation, since it is obvious, after so many criticisms, that Bojan Kristo is something bad, negative for the state of Serbia. How can you imagine, let's say, he's being criticized by someone, and the whole public knows he's holding an illegal mandate. A little thief doesn't have the right to criticize a big thief, because the difference between a little thief and a big thief is how much money is in the safe. When there was a lot of money, then that uzo, then it was a big thief, when there was little money, he was a little thief. The thief is a thief, he's a principled thief. Please, how are you gonna measure this? Madam Minister, you will be a member of the High Council of the Judiciary under the new law. He will be a member of the High Council of the judiciary and Mr. Petkovic, who is the chairman of the National Assembly's Committee of Justice; I apologize, Bosko Ristic. Where did you find him? How's he gonna measure? Bosko Ristic, whatever he suggested, was ultimately illegal. He's making a constitutional charter, the state's breaking up. He made the Rules of Procedure, never even brought that Rules of Procedure to life. You know what he did in court in Nis? He's appointed a retired president of the county court. Now he needs to talk about dignity and morality, about the Amila affair, about the first licking. He invented financial licking in Serbia. He should consider whether someone meets the conditions of being a judge? He should appreciate the criteria, e, my Stambolic, Stambolic, the criteria of dignity. The training involves skills that enable the effective application of specific legal skills in solving court cases. Bosko Ristic to be a benchmark for measuring this? Please don't embarrass us. Let's talk about the Rules of Procedure. We're just about to start fighting organized crime. Guys, what are you doing? Someone gave you a mistake to run the country, not to drive the cards, aman the people. Tell me who will apply those criteria. Tell me how you're going to apply these criteria to the occasion of the year. persons as candidates, unless the High Council of the judiciary has an obligation to even see that candidate. I'll buy you these three minutes, God help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8277	Mrs. Zlata Djeric, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, on behalf of the MP group of the NS, who submitted this amendment, I would just like to draw attention, given that my colleagues before me have really talked exhaustively about this amendment. I'm even glad that an LDP colleague very professionally explained why this amendment should be adopted. I really think, without any political acuity, just from a termological point of view and profession, this amendment must be adopted. Why? Because this member of the law has five views. In Section 5, you say, "The decision on the proposal of the Supreme Council of the judiciary must be reasoned." In the third attitude, we ask that the verb "can" be replaced with the verb "must." The position would then read as follows: "Before proposing, the High Council of the Judiciary has to hold a conversation with the registered candidates." The meaning of the verb "can" and the meaning of the verb "mor" are very different. In the judiciary, in legislative practice, in territorial court practice, I think the verb "can" should be avoided as much as possible, because it leaves the possibility that anything can be interpreted differently. What is very important about this termological substitution, in which we insisted on this amendment, is that the conversation with the candidate, what is actually considered to be the most important assessment of the candidates in some modern world business practice, is the interview that is being published, and you know that in European practice an interview is very important, that there is no agency, no company in the world that will hire anyone more seriously if it does not have a conversation with him, that is, as the contemporary interview says. So we have to commit the High Council of the Judiciary to have a direct conversation with each candidate. It may or may not have to be otherwise, but if it has to, then that conversation is binding and entering that final evaluation. This is what we will show the candidates an objective court, and this leaves doubt among the candidates. I'm telling you this because the judges themselves have made themselves known. So there's going to be another grade for someone, so there's no need for a conversation. I think that termological difference is important and will significantly improve the quality of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8279	I thank Mrs. Djeric. There's still three minutes left for your parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what counterpart Krasic explained and what the previous colleague said, should absolutely be accepted. Why? If you look at the provisions of the proposed Article 45, with the provisions of Article 50, and agree them, you will see that they refer exactly to the same event, the same facts and the same conditions. They shall repeat the provision relating to Article 45. How can the High Council verify dignity, how can it check honesty, how can the High Council, without having contact with the candidate, check and determine the security, justice, dignity, endurance and fitness, and behavior in accordance with these qualities implies keeping the reputation of the judge and the court in service and outside of it? Consciousness of social responsibility, maintaining independence and integrity, etc. I ask you who may vote for these provisions - how can the High Council, without having any contact with any candidate, determine all these criteria and these criteria? It can't be done. What's gonna happen? The president of the court will propose his co-worker, his former expert associate, and he will send his opinion. Who's checking that opinion? Who determines these facts? It doesn't determine anyone. All of this can't be determined. I think there's an intervention here when it comes to the reception for the first time, the knowledge check. Madam Minister, he's checking his knowledge by the High Judiciary Council. There is not one candidate coming, there must be more candidates for a particular place in the judicial authority, that all go to the test and check the knowledge, so that a neuropsychiatrist is hired, that teachers are hired, that people from the profession are engaged, so from the court and the prosecution, and that then the High Judiciary Council can have a clear situation on which the candidate is concerned and who should come. One example, colleague Ratkovic, I'll only bring out the MPs to hear something. (President: Time. I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8281	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee deems the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8282	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers, in the position of Article 4 of Article 50. The proposal for a law on judges states that the High Council of Justice is proposing to the National Assembly one or more candidates for the election in one court. Amendment to Article 4(4). I suggested that the proposal for a law on judges replace the word "one" with the word "two" and that the words "or more" be deleted. In this way, the High Council of Justice would commit itself to proposing at least two candidates for one judge, leaving the National Assembly with the possibility of a choice. If a solution to the proposal for a law on judges was retained, the National Assembly would not be able to make a choice, but would be forced to accept or not accept a single candidate for a judge. This means that the most legislative body would often be put before a choice - take it or leave it. Unless he accepts one candidate as a judge, the Assembly could be charged with obstruction, or even an unauthorized influence on the judicial branch of power, which cannot function without sufficient numbers of judges. Such a proposal in which the High Council of Justice can only put one candidate is strange, a team before we all know that the majority of people compete for the judge's seat. It is impossible that the High Council of Justice of so many people cannot, as candidates, propose at least two and thus enable the National Assembly to choose. This proposed solution seems more like imposing a candidate, perhaps a favorite executive. This way I remind you that the legal practice of enlightened peoples and democratic states is that where they can and where there is no consequence leaves no choice. The exclusion of the right to choice has always been characteristic of totalitarian regimes and of a country whose authority fears competition. It is strange that the Serbian government does not notice these facts. The choice of judges has never, in any country, been a small matter, so the result of such a proposal seems even more difficult. This is precisely why I believe that the Serbian Parliament must offer two candidates for the election to one judicial post in order to enable at all the right to choice and competition, as competition can contribute to the choice of a better and more professional candidate. That's why I invite you to accept my amendment. When it comes to the choice of judges under the Law of Judges, I would remind you of Article 100 and Article 101, who are being re-elected at a small door, or, to be clear, lustration. The re-election of judges violates the basic standards of the Serbian Constitution, and democracy in our country is suspended. If we adopt such a law, you will abolish the principles of division of power, as well as the principles of brakes and balance. The judiciary will no longer be independent and equal to the other two branches of government, but will become subordinated to Boris Tadic and his regime. I remind you that democracy and the protection of human rights are impossible without respect for the principle of division of power. Now I'm going to draw your attention to the aforementioned members of 100 and 101. Proposal for a law on judges who re-election judges, but from another angle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8283	Thank you. Mr. Jojic, then Markovic, so you, Mr. Peric, if there's time. You have 10 minutes left, your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8284	Ladies and gentlemen, counterpart Filip Stojanovic intervenes with his amendment to improve this text of the law. It's quite acceptable for a number of reasons. Now there's a great danger in electing judges, especially for the first time. I have just begun to explain and explain the fact that the President of the Court, or his narrow group, is going to propose one of his favorites, a candidate who was an intern in that court, and some relative or friend of some local powerful man, so it is necessary to push that candidate through, regardless of what the candidate has no criteria, does not meet them and should not be a judge. I'm about to be in any case checking the knowledge, to be tested by impartial experts and experienced people who work in the judiciary. I'll tell you one example from the police. We had people, three or four, in one police station that citizens were constantly complaining about intervening, charging fines and filing criminal charges. This made the authority elder sick and ordered that the traffic police be called and that the tests be carried out. When testing was carried out, it was found that these people, who had the most problems and conflicts with citizens, had the most abuses of authority, and when the testing was carried out, based on tests for A, B, C, D and E, found that these people were not able to pass for any category when it comes to the knowledge of traffic regulations. What did we have to do? These people are being transferred from traffic to order, and those who know traffic regulations and who won't cause trouble to citizens, and with whom citizens won't have any conflict or conflict. It was one chance to check our knowledge. In another way, we couldn't get the results -- whether these people, who are complaining about citizens, are right or wrong. When it comes to judges, especially when it comes to choice for the first time, there is no saying that there will be impartiality and objectivity. Don't count on it. You may now think that in Novi Varosha, Priboj, Prepolje, Koseric or Nis should compete with certain candidates for judges, the first time they are elected. The High Council of Justice, the cream society, is sitting in Belgrade. How do they deal with those? They go for counselling in Vranjska Banja, to Kopalnik, Zlatibor, Zlatar, there they agree and say - I have a good candidate, please, support me with this candidate. And he brought his candidate to counseling. Unfortunately, that candidate is a woman. It's okay, I respect that, it's no problem at all. It's an intern, he brought her to counsel on the Kopalnik and in Zlatibor, and the state pays for the counseling. Ladies and gentlemen, now something serious. I would speak to you and say something very serious about the responsibility of independent judges. The value of the principle of judicial independence is to protect judges from firing or other sanctions taken by the Government or NGOs, dissatisfied with the content of decisions taken. But judicial independence is not envisaged and should not be allowed to be a shield for judicial abuses, impunity, or an obstacle to questioning possible complaints or objections to their work. It is wrong to assume that courts, which decide to restrict freedom, property, and even human rights, should be untouchable about the decisions they have made. Namely, the public responsibility of the courts and judges is a necessary basis for public confidence in the court. There is, in fact, a fine relationship between duty, profession and responsibility in society. Courts may perform their duties as institutions to resolve disputes in society only if the procedure for resolving these disputes is fair, efficient and expedient. These are the known principles of economic and celery, as well as efficiency. The efficiency and expeditivity, the public trust which is the basis for building judicial independence, logically precedes it and achieves respect for a number of principles, such as the principle that judicial judgments are made public, as well as the principle of reasons in court decisions. It is important to note that the public trust in courts is well reflected in the slogan "that justice must not only be done, but this exercise of justice must also be visible". As the poet says a little funny - stressing the need for public judicial control, it's too serious to be left to judges alone. The rise in the role of the judiciary is partly the result of social values and social movements. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this set of laws is trying to regulate the situation in our judiciary, it's a good intention and idea, but this set of laws is very problematic, and if this set of laws is passed, we will have one year to amend and amend or pass new laws. Why? Because if a provision is adopted, in particular transitional and final provisions relating to the law on courts, judges and prosecutors, which are provided and regulated in the provisions of Articles 99 and 101, an illegal and unfair selection will be carried out, I must say unfairly, I don't think anyone here will be engaged in some unfair actions, but it won't be regular, it won't be fair. Why? You know we have two and a half thousand judges. Is it the government's goal to reduce the number of judges? I have the impression that in that direction these laws are being proposed. What if 500 or even 1,000 judges or prosecutors are to lose their jobs? It's a very dangerous thing. I said that judges and prosecutors aren't matchmakers and they're being manipulated. Here's the way out of the crisis. That the judiciary chooses and only proposes candidates, whose primary matter is. That a professor from law school comes from Nis or Novi Sad, or Union, to a private college, and says -- he's a respected professor, let's put him in the High Council for Justice, and he'll be the one who'll be able to choose and make a proposal for the best candidate. It's not good. It's my opinion that there will be a great injustice, perhaps not so deliberate, but this is a hunch of lustration and the SRS is against this kind of lustration. We will not support such laws, for the reasons that these laws have come to the Assembly by emergency procedure, the second that the professional public has not sufficiently participated in this, and I fear that the honest and honest people who work in the judiciary will indeed live to find themselves without a job or on the street. I respect the decisions of those judges who participated hundreds of them in making decisions, who made the right decisions when they took the mandates of those who did not belong and returned the SRS. That's the kind of judge Serbia wants, and so do you DS gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8285	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have seen these days when we started discussing this set of law in the field of justice how many objections were expressed through amendments, how many MPs were trying to, explaining amendments, actually convince the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that these are bad laws, that perhaps there is a good intention. I personally believe in the good intentions of the justice minister, but I have warned Ms. Malovic several times that I am afraid that this is some unsuspecting bitch, which will also reflect on the work of the judiciary, on the position of judges and prosecutors, of course all other employees in the judicial administration, and then, of course, it will all reflect negatively on the citizens of Serbia, who need to address the courts and prosecutors. It seems to me that the best thing that my colleague Krasic just said was that these laws are actually such that amendments are hard to fix. The government has accepted about twenty amendments to the proposal for a law on judges, which is, on the one hand, good, because it can be said that the government is taking care of the opinion of the MPs and that the government has taken our work seriously, and on the other hand, it says how bad the proposal is. Because certainly the government hasn't changed the concept approach to solving these problems and some so-called. judicial reform, but it is obvious that these laws are so bad and with so many bad solutions that the government has accepted so many amendments from opposition parties, good deeds and SRS MPs. It seems to me to be all these laws, and especially for the law on judges, which is in a sense, firstly in an existential sense when it comes to judges and prosecutors, and then in terms of destroying the justice system in Serbia, that this is actually a set of conditions for the abuse and establishment of party courts, nepotism, similar judges and so on. Every time we talked here, when some agencies were formed, some government bodies and when it was said that certain functions would be placed on non-partisan personalities, we from the SRS always expressed our view that it was a simple farce. Why? Because it's not possible, I'm not going to say it's not normal, because it would be normal, but it's not possible in the current consolidation of the forces and relations in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the congregation majority to propose to some function, where non-partisan personalities are allegedly elected, someone who has nothing to do with the parties currently in power, and to be declared an expert, I don't know, all of it is, but to be accepted as such by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The same case will be with the judges. We therefore think that we should not through such regulations and through such farces and forcing nonpartisan personalities, in some way punish people who are party-determined, because it is perfectly normal that each man has his own party-determination, he does not have to be a member of a party, but he should certainly give his opinion in the voting day, that is, in some elections. That's how it's supposed to be with both judges and prosecutors. It does not occur to us that we are now questioning any of the judges and which judges you have in one way or another forced to join any of the parties that are in power, but we cannot allow you to make a lustration by applying this law and only those who have declared themselves close to you or worse, to be subject to the influence of the executive authority, the influence of the tycoon, who are unfortunately more powerful and more powerful in Serbia. When I say more powerful, I mean not only their material wealth, but apparently, by misusing their material wealth, they manage to find people who are willing to do something that is contrary to the law in many dams. In that sense, all our objections are extremely well-intentioned. We actually want, not to think about whether a judge is close or not to a party, but whether he is subject to or not to the influence of the congregation's majority, perhaps less, but certainly to executive authorities, whether he is prone to the influence of the tycoon and the couple, and you obviously intend to bring to the courts judges who will fulfill your duties. We have had examples these days of the return of kidnapped parliamentary mandates in some district courts in Serbia, particularly in the Belgrade and Kragujevac district court. It is amazing that dozens of decisions were made by the larger Serbia district courts who strictly respected the law and returned the SRS to what the thieves had taken, but found two courts, or two councils within two courts that did not want to do so, of course without a legal basis. But you're actually passing this law so that you can create such judges and make those honorable, moral judges who want to work in accordance with the law, who want to apply the law, which is sacred to them that they're all the same under the law, that the law is the same for all, you don't need such judges. Such judges and such prosecutors today defend only the SRS in Serbia, because we are not missing the opportunity to draw attention to this intentional lustration in courts and in prosecutors. When it comes to Article 55, which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I submitted the amendment, in Article 55, in the first place, the government proposed that the judge elected take office at the session of all judges in the court for which he was elected. Our amendment says that after this, words need to be added that the session must be held within 15 days of the judge's election day. I don't really see a single reason why such an amendment isn't accepted. Does it change the concept of the law? No, I don't. Does it in any way affect what you really want? I'd say so, yeah. That's why you didn't accept the amendment. In the light of the amendment, it is written that this amendment prevents possible abuses that could arise in the procedure of the appointment of that solemn session, and this could certainly call into question the choice of judges chosen within the meaning of Article 56. A bill of this law. Why is this amendment not accepted by the government? It says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that setting a legal deadline for holding a session is not necessary, since the next member of the law is prescribed to be deemed not to have been elected if he does not take office within 30 days of the election day. Just connecting these two members, Mrs Malovic, I have proposed this amendment. Can't you see how much abuse is left if you don't accept this amendment? Well, you, in your explanation, say there's a 30-day deadline, and if the judge doesn't take office within that time limit, he'll be deemed to have not been elected. Where, Mrs. Malovic, is his guarantee that this solemn session will be held within that period so that he can take office? There's no obligation, Mrs. Malovic. Perhaps you think everyone is correct, that everyone will follow an appropriate deadline. There are strict deadlines. There is no single reason for this amendment not to be accepted. On the contrary, your argument has made us even more convinced that we are right to propose such an amendment because what will happen if you do not adopt it? You don't have a gun when that solemn session is to be held. In the next article - if 30 days from election day does not take office, the judge will be deemed not elected. So, we'll make a decision, the judge will be elected, the High Council will make a decision, the judge will be elected, depending, not to elaborate now everything this law is, which all the nebulous solutions have predicted, and what will happen? When that judge is elected, he appears there in his municipal or county court, and there he for who knows what reasons he resents someone because instead someone's son, someone's daughter, etc., and that someone is powerful enough not to organise that solemn session and the judge or man is free of charge, he cannot take office. Who can complain to? He can't do anything to anyone. Who can bring him back? No one can. So if you really want to do something serious, then accept this amendment. Now I'm going to read you a message for an illustration, and that's why I brought my cell phone to this place. I got a message from an unknown phone number, and that's exactly why I'm not going to mention names, but I'm going to say that's what it says about the court in Prokuplje. He says the court in Prokupje is a family court. The president of D.T. County Court, here is a full name and name but I speak initials, he's a great friend of Vido Shkero's, which of course there doesn't have to be any interference, they can be college colleagues, from an earlier court, it's not his fault. The president of the District Court who says he's a great friend of Vido Skero's, his wife S. is a lawyer, and they're godfathers with a married couple of judges named B.R. and V., they've initiated their names, they're both judges of the Municipal Court. Judge D.I., his daughter is a reference officer in the criminal office. His brother-in-law, T.P., is a juror, cousin of S.G. is a judge, another woman of a certain M.Z., who is a great friend and best man with the president of the municipal court M.B., and this M.B. is a close friend with a criminal judge, and I'm going to read this name, since Mr. Batic knows what he found in that court, it's about Ivana Mirić-Nicketić, who was assigned his own apartment, you don't know her, Mr. Batic, I don't know her either, but I'm sure you know her dad. So this lady got divorced, so she got an apartment, which is less important. Her mother is a jury judge, son of a judge of a certain L. A. is a reference officer in the office, and M.D., these are the initials of the judge, the mother of S...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8287	Please bring the end, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8288	This is amazing. This is a private court. So, this Snow White is the head of the litigation department, the judge of the A.S., who immediately received the daughter-in-law for the judge, Judge S.M., he retired, his sister-in-law was admitted to the Municipal Court of Records. Judge Gordan, girlhood, Niketic, former President Branko Niketic's daughter, you know Mr Batic, now a lawyer, their sister-in-law is a cashier in the District Court, all because of the privilege of the President of the District and Municipal Court, so a writer, then a juror, was accepted as a reference to someone's daughter. So, I've been over it for two minutes and I'm really sorry, but in order to avoid these things and messages like this, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, keep an eye out, don't let the law create conditions for such abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8289	The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8290	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, we have just heard one argument as to why the court-seat law should be adopted, to reduce the number of courts and to control which courts and in what composition to judge. It's precisely because we stop with the impoliteness and the relatives' courts. By the way, I'm reporting on this amendment to article 55 of the Judges Act. The title of this article is Getting into office. The position of the 1st member says that the judge elected to office at the formal session of all the judges in the court for whom he was elected. What if the President of the Court doesn't schedule that formal session? It shall then remain those 30 days referred to in Article 56(1). The law, which says, "It is considered that the judge is not elected if for justified reasons he does not take office within 30 days of election day." In this way, the government explains why this amendment does not adopt and says that the 30 days is actually the deadline within which a solemn session should be held. But where does it say that? So, Article 55 doesn't say, and Article 56 provides only for the responsibility of the judge who was elected, so he went through this whole previous procedure to become a judge, and then there's no meeting scheduled, and he just doesn't get on the job, he goes through these 30 days, and almost, fat goes down, no more judges. He can complain, paragraph 3 says, "The judge has the right to appeal by the Constitution of the court for the decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary." But why are we to be complicated, unprovoked to make this whole procedure unnecessary, if in article 55, we can lay down the deadline within which that solemn session has to be scheduled for the judge to actually take office? Unfortunately, the main objection to this article in 55 is that arbitraryness that is left to one person, therefore to the President of the Court, and that we do not further order what this arbitraryness can be and what it can produce. Voluntaryness has become a dominant category in this society, so these days we are witnessing what it can fail about these public enterprises, which indeed arbitraryly and monopolistly determine, first of all, the salaries of its employees, their leaders, and then the price of their services. What is it, rather, an arbitraryity when they collect both gas and electricity, and Telekom and even a dozen other services provided by these mono-political public enterprises. Why, then, when we have the opportunity to mark exactly what someone's obligation is in one judge's law, we don't use it and do it right, to avoid any unwanted consequences and unwanted situations. Unfortunately, we make such laws, and then we expect these laws to fully regulate their lives, and when we make these laws, we do not analyse the consequences of our actions or our decisions regarding these laws. Therefore, if it is decided so that we do not oblige the President of the Court, as we oblige the judge on these deadlines to enter into office, then we leave one person free of charge, one group, however, to decide whether or not they will do something to enforce the law. That's the problem in our society, because there's a lot of discretion and freedom in interpreting the law left to certain groups and they use it, and then we wonder why we have so many holes in the law, why we have so many different interpretations of laws by judges and courts, so we don't have a uniform legal practice, we don't have equal decisions by the same problem in different procedures. Therefore, it would be good if laws were passed, specifically this law, to assess all possibilities, to assess all the consequences that certain provisions can produce, and then to prevent these adverse consequences, and therefore we believe that any amendment which is submitted to this court by a position or opposition, nevertheless, is indeed being analysed, rather than simply being valued on a flat-rate basis. Because the government's argument regarding this amendment says that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the setting of a legal time limit for holding a session is not necessary, since the next member of the law is prescribed that the judge is deemed not to have been elected if he does not take office within 30 days of the election day. So this article’s position in 56 does not speak of any obligation of the one who is obliged to schedule that session, for only then does the judge take office. It's not about the choice of judges, it's about getting into office, so why not use something if we already have time, we have space and opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8291	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed amendment has a basis to be accepted because it better regulates this standard in the proposed member. When it comes to the judiciary, it is not necessary to forget the following facts, first of all not to be removed, to be used and to bear in mind the international legal rules of parallel law, i.e. an international regulation that regulates the independence of judges. If a lot is said about the choice of judges, so far, a lot has been said and this should be one of the priorities of the judge-elect, because whoever chooses judges must stand by the decision when a candidate is elected as a legal holder. What if it turns out to be a completely different situation in practice? First, if he's not an expert. If his decisions are lifted or his decisions change. What if there's a large number of unannounced cases? What if there's a large number of complaints about his work? What if this candidate has shown other negative traits that should not be adorn one of the holders of judicial functions? In countries with a developed legal system, I stress, judicial function is a privilege. Anyone who wants to become a judge has a lot of work to do on professional training. It costs him and his family a lot to achieve a good and top quality, so that he can become a judge and share justice. I repeat, this proposed solution, that the High Judicial Council will make the judiciary of Serbia happy, I doubt that, and I cannot deal with it at all. I repeat, the first choice of judges is very problematic. There are a lot of colleagues here who have had opportunities to monitor the work of courts for years and years. What is in developed countries, with a certain right and with a regulated rule of law and better regulation, is that the largest number of judicial holders and judges are elected from the ranks of lawyers. I have to tell you, a lawyer who has 10, 15, 20 years of experience in law enforcement, in England you can't see anyone else competing and being elected, priority and mostly 95% are lawyers. Why is that? No expert associate, no judicial assistant, nor one who may have 10 years of working experience in the judiciary, or in the affairs of the legal profession, has any experience of a lawyer. The lawyer is independent in his work. The lawyers in the world today give extraordinary attention. Lawyers getting into law enforcement have to have skills and skills. First of all, they have to pass a judicial exam. Secondly, the lawyer starts with ordinary legal cases, whether it's a non-paris procedure, a litigation procedure, then a criminal, then an administrative procedure. A lawyer who in his law profession has five or six thousand cases, with five or six thousand parties, various cases, in which he was also a litigator, in which he was also a culprit, that man is a roasted candidate who can be a judge without a problem. Not only can it be if it was corrupt, if it came into corruption, along with the bearers of judicial functions and those rats spoken of by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet Radeta. I appreciate this attempt by the promoter to carry out a selection in the judiciary after all. But it can't be like this. It's very difficult to lift 104 courts. It is very difficult for the High Council of the judiciary, 15 of them wise men to sit and decide the fate of two and a half thousand people. No, first of all, they should go through the procedure of the election that all the holders of the judicial functions need to go through. First of all, the judges and prosecutors pick and they answer. They know in their collective who should be proposed for the President of the Court. Your problem is that your court's urgency is not at a decent level, which is the efficiency of the judiciary not at its height. It's not because we don't have good judge presidents. The presidents of the courts are managers, the president of the court needs to know when a clerk comes to him, when a judge comes to him. He must know where his crew is all day. Secondly, the President of the Court has to follow cases according to his rules of procedure. He needs to know when the case came to court. Do you know what's problematic, ladies and gentlemen? There's a Mr. Batic who knows well. Once a judge is suspended for the first time. He's going back to first degree court. He's getting a new number. Why? No, I don't. Is my sentence lifted? I'll be in charge under that number, not a new one. That's how it's gonna turn out that there's gonna be an inflow of cases in court. Mr Batic was the minister of justice, he had insight into a large number of courts. What do you need? It is necessary first and foremost that the President of the Court must know when the case has come to work. To conduct his monthly analysis and examinations. The President of the Court should ask the judge for a report on the case, whether the case is scheduled or not? Second, when was the first hearing held? When's the second? Today I had the opportunity to gain insight into two cases, one 19 years, another 20 years, a litigation procedure. There are more of these in Serbia. So, if an analysis were to be carried out -- efficiency, celery and economics are achieved if you have a good President of the Court. When the election of the President of the Courts takes account of how many judges were in that court, how many cases, how many abolished decisions, how many modified, how many confirmed. It's a selection. That's the basic rule. There is one inherited problem, one Serbian judiciary disease. There's a lot of commitment to tourism. Do you know why? The state pays a lot of counseling. There's nothing from these counseling sessions. The district court and the municipal court can hold counselling. If they want to meet the judges at the level of the district court with new regulations to come and with the new established practice. What's the judge doing in the bathroom? What's he doing on Zlatibor? Seven days, and when a thousand and a half to two are gathered, you see, Mrs. Minister is here, she's taking care of the economic way in which the funds are spent, but she'll notice that in the past she's been cleared of the register and, never mind, we're going to counseling. These counsellings are common. What else is characteristic? It is characteristic that counselling is rarely missed by the President of the Court, and good judges can't come to order to go to some counseling. So that's the problem with the judiciary. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for law enforcement, the time has come for Serbia to also be a state that can be proud of its professional staff. I note that Serbia has, above all, a Faculty of Law in Belgrade that can be proud, in Europe one of the recognised colleges of law, at which a number of judicial personnel gained certain skills and titles of the magistrate and doctor. We must do everything to promote this justice system, to allow judges who judge to have certain independence, to have no party addiction, to have no material addiction, to have no influence on the judge, to have no intervention on either side. I'm going to show you in countries and Anglo-Saxon rights, and in the countries of continental law, some of the research that's been done, where you're going to see all the interventions that have been recorded, where they came from, and what the result of these interventions was. I can also tell you that this case brought forth by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, deserves attention, and also concerns. But this isn't the only case as it is in the Buyout. I said that we have an unresolved issue of many things and relations in the judiciary, especially family, godfather and friendly relationships, nepotism in the judiciary would have to be eradicated in any case. There's no such thing as ours in other countries. What Veronica said, this is a family court, but this isn't a lonely case. This is what the Department of Justice and the Supreme Court must be concerned about, but you must be concerned with what seems to be at the airport, compared to those qualifications, but must also be taken over in the judiciary. Which means that it is urgent to review all the items that are in operation and see who with these items is late, who is professional, who is unprofessional. So so far, the law on courts and judges has provided for the possibility of a solution for instruction, however, the institute has been slightly used. But these institutes, which we from the Serbian Radical Party have been seeking for several years to pass a special law on the disciplinary responsibility of the holders of judicial functions, such as in the Federal Republic of Germany, France and England, you have a special law on the disciplinary responsibility of judges and prosecutors, and it closer determines, edits and prevents certain things from going through. It couldn't have happened, I can prove it, but I don't have a chance, and I don't want the judge handling his spouse's appeal to a senior court. That shouldn't happen. Here's a scandalous example. You have a situation like this, Madam Minister, there's a court of attorney and judge. In one, I'm only talking about one thing, and we know what the situation is. Today a lawsuit has been filed in one dispute, today a lawyer who has received in good relations with the judge in an unexplainable way a case in the work of a wanted judge and receives a verdict by order. He's handing over the lawsuit today, today he's getting a judge in the works, the elected judge and the agreed judge. Today this judge educates the greater, today this judge is taking out evidence, among other things, that judge is hearing the party today, this judge is also making a verdict today, this judge today... (President: Time, Mr. Jojic. )......................................................................................................... In one day, he declares the verdict a power of power. If there were no corruption, and that lawyer and that judge were out of line, it could not have been possible for some 19 or 20 years to wait for a decision, and one lawyer and one party per order get a verdict in one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8293	Before I give Mr. Batic my word to the Rules of Procedure, just a moment, as I respected you this morning, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are today hosting students and professors of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the Roman University of La Sapienza, where he is head of the group of professors. Fulco Lancaster, and please welcome them. Here, they're at the gallery. A few minutes will stay and follow our work. Here you go, Mr. Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have not spoken of this set of judicial laws. I want this opportunity to say that I support this set of judicial laws. They mean one step further, and they mean something we wanted at a time when I was honored to be the minister of justice in the government of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Unfortunately, there was no political will then. I have small reserves in relation to the territorial organization and the revision of that territorial organisation, not because this solution is not good, but because I fear that as a society, we have not yet reached that level of responsibility and this state of consciousness of most people who are holders of judicial functions, to realize that they are doing one of the most important jobs in society, that one of the pillars of every modern democratic state. We still live, unfortunately, in a time of nepotism, hypocrisis, corruption and criminal justice. This is exactly what she mentioned, for example, as an illustrative example, Mrs. Radeta of this nepotism in the court of Prokuplje. I'm a witness from that time, when I was a minister of justice, that court hid two cases of Scorpion crimes in Podujevo. Then they were taken out of the drawer and then the trial began, because in the name of some Serb, they allowed some of our countrymen who gave themselves the right to commit crimes on our behalf. It's a court of law in Prokuplje. So it's time to separate the grain from the weeds. But these questions and these topics mentioned here should not be referred to Mrs Malovic's address. I'm happy as the former justice minister that she was the head of my cabinet, one young, modest, intelligent, but a woman with capacity, with a vision, and it's the greatest success of any man, when his heirs continue on their way and take a few more steps forward in those ideas that we once represented. In 2001, according to the Justice Act at the time, I launched an initiative to resolve around 220 judges, based solely on exact data, based on just arches. We had Gonzales' report, where the names were listed by the judges who participated in the election thefts. We've had pointlessly mounted political processes... (President: Time. I've reported on the amendment. (President: All right. )......................................................................................................... Spider, Wasp and the like. We had something else that Jojic mentioned earlier. That's the largest number, those of 220, judges who confirm 10 to 15% of the convictions. Wait, no one's getting the crown off their heads. These people don't know how to do their job and they don't have to do it. The concept of continuity and independence of judicial functions is not any metaphysical category. Perseverance implies responsibility and success. If you're responsible, if you're successful, perform a judicial function if you need to do it for life. If you get 10% of your conviction, all the hostages are such an incompetent judge and he has to leave. So we need to triage, separate the wheat from the weeds, make a selection, reward the able judges. That was my idea. I've submitted the amendment now to raise the judges' wages even more, but those who don't know how to work to leave. Independence, it's not even a metaphysical category. They also depend on both the Serbian state, the law and the citizens. The judgments are in the name of the people, not in the name of this or that tycoon, this or that man in power. But all these questions are not for Mrs. Malovic but, for example, for the president of the Serbian Supreme Court, Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero. But she's okay with judges like this. She always raises her voice and doesn't think about her own responsibility. He says, "Courts at low branches." Well, when you're on top of a judicial organization, go. But she needs such judges, such as Pahomi, and Ilarion, which the honorable, honest, unsullied judges will never do. That's why I support this set of laws, and my vision and my vision of the territorial organisation of the courts will be free to present when the amendment is debated at that point in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8295	Thank you. Just to let you know that article 141. The Rules of Procedure say that MPs, who are not members of the parliamentary groups, set a maximum of three participants in the debate under each amendment by mutual agreement, and that the right to speak on one amendment has each MP for up to three minutes. That's attitude 2. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 59th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Petkovic submitted an amendment to Article 59, demanding that the positions of 2rd and 3rd be deleted. We think it is more than justifiable that these two articles of the 59th are deleted, because these are precisely the views of the High Council of the judiciary that allow, at the request of the President of the Court, a particular judge to extend the working time for another two years to complete the work on the cases that have been initiated. First of all, I don't think the proposer of this law has determined in the most precise way what should have been the objective of this law. If the aim is to extend the working century to complete the work on a specific case, which is of exceptional general interest to the state itself, such as the case, for example, only trial for the murdered prime minister, then that is understandable. But if the working century is extended to the judge to complete the work on all the cases that have given him jurisdiction, then absolutely, in our opinion, it doesn't make any sense. I think this provision represents and gives one possibility for abuse, that, conditionally speaking, the judge who is in favor of the President of the Court extends the working age for another two years. What I think is much more important is that these two attitudes of this member are not in line with the Labour Act, because the Labour Act accurately predicts the length of the working age for women, and how long it is for men. That is one of the basic reasons why I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8297	The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic, and then Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8298	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 59(1) says the judge stops working time when he is 65 years old or 40 years old is ensuing insurance under the law, and particularly in his position 2nd, he says that, at the request of the President of the Court, the High Council of Justice may extend the working time for another two years, with his consent. A moment ago, we heard from Mr. Krasic that this law is the best thing to do when an amendment requires the removal of an attitude. I think it's true in this case. The amendment here requires that headings 2 and 3 be deleted. For several reasons, it can be discussed about, firstly, the moral credibility of survival of points 2 and 3. For what? In conditions where the number of unemployed in our country, according to official statistics, in 2009, there will be a million, hundreds and hundreds of them, not to say thousands of young graduates, will we have at the employment office, is it necessary to keep this position 2 or to extend someone's working age to 42 years of insurance training, which is 67 years of life, when we have so many unemployed young people, I say, young graduates at the Bureau? Did anyone ever wonder when that man who is now 30 years old and is on the employment desk will be waiting for his pension? So 30 and 40 years of insurance costs 70 years of life, which means he has to go safely into early retirement, so in 65 years. He won't be expecting that 40-year-old pension. Furthermore, with its kind of discontinuity as a judge's function, it will allow lustration, so that many good judges will lose their jobs, i.e. they will only be chosen alike, those who meet any political option, so that a large number of judges will be out of a job. Even from this point of view, it can be said that there is really no moral credibility to apply this position of the 2nd proposed law on judges. In addition, many cases are in the drawers of public prosecutors and judges. Can there be at all talk of the independence and impartiality of elected judges in conditions where they are in many cases either forced or acting alone by protecting large capital. Again, this large capital, it is known that direct finance is a political party. Here it's done according to the principle of how powerful it is and how right it is. The newly-roasted social capital owners who protect these judges and prosecutors are actually firing these workers. They're actually modern slaves. They fire them and move them 50 miles from the place of work, when they accept it, they introduce them twice their working hours, you know, from 8:00 to 12:00 and from 4:00 to 2:00, just to get out of their jobs, so they quit. These modern slaves, these workers who are employed in these privatized enterprises, you know how they feel. Like former slaves in those old times who negotiate with their slave owners whether or not they will have shackles on their feet that weekend, whether or not they will be without shackles on their feet. That's how these modern slaves feel in privatized companies. In fact, they only want one thing, by acting judge in their case, or by acting prosecutor, to get out of that drawer of theirs, or by the judge, if that had already happened, to judge impartially, to judge by law. It's their only wish, it's their only moral satisfaction. All their suffering and their moral satisfaction comes down to one thing, which is an impartial trial, a trial by law and a trial as the legislator orders. However, there are many examples, indeed hundreds of examples that this does not happen in our judiciary. Hundreds of examples show that they are actually being protected by the owners of this large capital, which are again being financed by political parties and are all spinning in a vicious circle. We'll see what the government does in the next five days. However, I have the impression that with you in power there is a saying from the Bible - nothing new under the sun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8299	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligrudić, and then Sreto Peric by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8300	Article 226, which says - the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials and the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which they need to exercise the role of the MP. We really need it to achieve the role of the MP to know the answer to the question, we have already asked that this morning and we have not yet received the answer to that question: where is the budget? Where is this document currently located? Where's the baby coming from? It should be in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The information I have now said that there was no draft budget in the government of the Republic of Serbia today. Then it's in contradiction with the information that we received this morning from you, Madam President of the National Assembly, with all due respect, you probably said what you knew back then, I don't suppose you were telling any untruth at that time. Now the question is again, where's the budget? Probably the government can't adopt it from the general euphoria that was created there because we finally came to the point that part of our territory was declared neutral. So, from the euphoric status of our territory's neutrality, there's no budget. For the same reason there is no happiness for pensioners, no happiness for workers, no happiness for employees in this country, no happiness for those whose home budget cannot settle their costs caused by an increase in the price of utility services, etc. The question is very simple - where is the budget? On this day last year, you're right, the budget was here and it was too late. Where's the budget now? Is he here today?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8301	Since, Mr. Aligrudic, you are not satisfied with my answer, and I gave it this morning, the question will be addressed to the government. Ms. Marina Ragush, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8302	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, thank you for this opportunity. I'm reporting from Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and due to the new circumstances, I request an urgent explanation from Mr Jeremic's foreign minister -- who is he, in fact, and when did the Assembly change its position and mandate for what happened at the Security Council meeting last night? We are, of course, informed by listening to half-truths and half-information from Serbian media, most often timely information is obtained unfortunately from some foreign media. However, the SRS made an effort and came up with a report by UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon. So what needs to be discussed here is indeed a declaration, that is, recognition of the independence of the state that was created on the basis of Shiptar terrorism, called Kosovo and Metohija. We are in a situation of total savagery by the international community, which has been giving birth for nine months to the way the Serbian government recognises Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Nine months are actually being implemented in the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. This is what we have the opportunity to read through the Ban Ki Moon report, which we have not had the opportunity to get through either the Foreign Affairs Committee or to hear directly from Mr Vuk Jeremic. What was it that caught us on the Security Council last night, and the National Service only showed us Mr. Jeremic's exposure. Without us finding out that there was actually negotiations between the Serbian and Albanian sides, with the intervention of the United States, that there was a technical agreement between Unmik and Eulex on the sale of Unmik's assets and all the funds so that Eulex could operate on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what's the worst, and what Mr Ban Ki Moon has recommended, which, too, you don't have a chance to know is next. Anex one contains a statement by the authorities in Pristina since 18 November 2008 that has known four points. I bet rarely any of you know what those four points contain. Basically, they contain Marty Ahtisaari's plan and a request for the Serbian side to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Ban Ki Mun provides a guarantee and says in this report – and we are looking for an urgent explanation of the Serbian government and Mr Jeremic that this report is only temporary, and that this report will continue the process – and ask its special representative to convince the Shiptar side, the pardoned authorities in Pristina, which he recognises by this report, that this is only a certain transitional, transit period, until the conditions of the Cyprus side are actually met, and according to the US directive. This is the complete truth that we expected during tomorrow's session, announced, about the government's confidence to hear, therefore, because we cannot hear the position of Minister Jeremic through either the Committee on Foreign Affairs or through certain regular sessions of this assembly. I think this is really an emergency. Indeed, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, this time I apologize for this excess, I appeal indeed to your patriotism, which I have convinced myself of many times, and your responsibility to send this service urgently to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Also, I've made sure that the only ministers from your party can really feel the opposition demands. One of these examples was Dr Obradovic, who, at the request of the opposition, and particularly from the SRS on irregularities at certain universities, the only one from this government, sent an inspection, found irregularities, the money was returned to children. I apologize for really overstepping my time in a minute and a half, but I am now fully convinced that you, as president of this house, will try to call on our behalf Minister Jeremic and that we will finally get an explanation for the precedent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8303	Your question will be forwarded to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister. Mr. Sreto Peric picked up the phone. Your task force has eight minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Malovic, you make the impression of a very correct minister. Mr. Batic said you were also a man with a vision. I don't know what's stopping you from adopting the number of amendments that are necessary to correct this law on judges? I have to quote Article 2. Court-order law. That's what Mrs. Veterans Radeta reminded me of when she was making the case. I don't know which group, which category of courts we put it in -- that's one of 34, or that's a new 35th basic court, or maybe, in real jurisdiction, that's another court. Article 2 The law on the regulation of courts says, in paragraph 2, temporary, interrupted, or extraordinary courts cannot be established. This provision is set out in Article 143(2). The Constitution. No one thought of private courts. This looks like a private court, by the way. You see, it seems that everything needs to be introduced into the law, but then our laws would be just like that Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, gave the best platform to discuss these laws to their initiative, MP Dragan Todorovic, head of the SRS parliamentary group. Yesterday, and even earlier today, by revealing the affair that happened, we must be prepared to solve these problems, not to be taken over by parliament, but to be prepared through the justice system to solve it. That is why it was necessary, Madam Minister, to first amend Article 39 to be accepted, which regulates the coefficients of judges. We now have and is not a small number of Serbian citizens who say their, in particular, litigation processes last up to 20 years. To prevent that, and we have an extremely large robbery that has already become clear to everyone, and it is not the only one of course, in order for judges to do it effectively and well, they must be adequately and rewarded for it. This amendment to Article 39 provided for. Judges for violations also have a large share of jobs and obligations, and there it is expected to increase the coefficient by one, which should be accepted in any case. I think it is clear to the MPs now, unless you have done so, Madam Minister, that in the day of voting they will vote in favour of the amendment to Article 39 and the amendment to Article 50, which was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic and MP Filip Stojanovic - one to Article 50(3) and the second to Article 50(4). The government's opinion, of course, has a dissent and an explanation. They're very interesting reasons. The disposition states that the government does not accept it, and in an explanation it cites reasons why it does not accept it. I have to comment on this because it's in article 50 on the proposal of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, and it is, of course, related to Article 59, which speaks of the termination of the judge's office. The reason for the amendment, i.e. the argument of the Government, is therefore disproved that the amendment is not accepted, and the argument is that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the regulation of both of these obligations would affect the effectiveness and urgency of the work of the High Council of the judiciary. The proposed position is - before the proposal, the High Council of the Judiciary can hold a conversation with the candidates reported, which was meant to know what it was about. Here we say it's a commitment, so it's a "must," not a "can," because then it would affect the efficiency of the High Council of the Judiciary. So what was "can" doesn't have to be like that anymore -- it really doesn't make sense. In an explanation, which is why the amendment of MP Filip Stojanovic, who proposed that the High Council of the judiciary propose to the National Assembly instead of one or more, two candidates for the first time to elect a judge, is said - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that it was given freedom to the High Council of the judiciary to assess in any particular case how many candidates will propose for each judicial post, and it is believed that the number of candidates for the election would slow down the work of this body by law itself. We say he'll propose one or more candidates, and then we say - if he suggested more, to slow down the work of the High Council of the Judiciary. So, these arguments, I don't know who's doing it, ma'am, but they're really inappropriate to what's supposed to be done. When it comes to the amendment of MP Miroslav Petkovic, who suggested that Article 59 delete the positions 2 and 3, I think that the amendment should also be accepted, because we have the presidents of the courts, they have a certain amount of compensation in relation to the number of judges in the courts they are, and they are also in charge of the judiciary. So, they have to keep an eye on when the judge and the number of cases are in the works, and when someone has 39 years of retirement, not to say judicial, because it can be in some other areas, or in some other professions, it must be taken into account when the distribution of these court cases is completed within the time limit provided for retirement, which is from the completed 40 years of insurance training, in order not to come into the position that, on a proposal from the President of the Court or in any other way, he stays on the place of the judge. Specific indicators for this, which is why it was not good, my colleague Mirko Munjic also made an assessment, and given the last few years and in 2008 how many graduates we have on the employment records - surely it was neither morally nor correct towards young people who are being educated and who should become good holders of judicial functions. We cannot accept the concept of reorganisation, or reform of the judiciary that the DS has proposed, but when we exclude the territorial organisation and the courts and prosecutors' seats, we try to correct these laws through amendments that are now on the agenda. Let me remind you once again, if I am referring to a parliamentary group from the SRS, we are assessing that you have a correct relationship, then you should also accept these amendments. Once again, I must say that the best platform for debate under a set of law in the judiciary is the initiative of MP Dragan Todorovic that the National Assembly points to problems that are also in public enterprises, and you will see in other state organisations and institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8305	The vice-president, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, reported on the subject of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8306	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. In fact, I just got a memo from the KIM Chamber of Commerce from the vice president's office. On their behalf, I request information from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all from the Ministry of Finance, from the Ministry of Economy, from Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, because what you are doing with Serbs in KIM, I am speaking to you too, Mrs Malovic, because you are part of the executive authority and you are bearing responsibility, is more unsustainable. I must remind myself that immediately following the announcement of the Cypriot quasi-state by your Western friends, a letter came from the Serbs from Kosovo Pomorie, who were employed in the Kosovo Protection Corps, that is, the KPS police, as they call it, down there, the jargon Serbs at KIM. They are 180 to this day without being able to survive, as the government of the Republic of Serbia has not taken them over yet, according to the promise of the then government of the Republic of Serbia. This is now a memo that I received ten minutes ago from workers who have been employed in the KIM Chamber of Commerce, since August of this year they have not received a salary. They are part of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. If we go, and we'll probably have to since Monday, if we don't get all this information started by Mr. Dragan Todorovic, about the robbery in 28 public enterprises, here, Mr. Todorovic, the president of our parliamentary group has come into the hall, to think about that possibility and to start talking about the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, so we can go back to Slobodan Milosavljevic, and then to the period before that, so we can start from that institutional way of robbing, not working. On the other hand, these people who stayed down, to protect our companies, to fight. You yourself know what the Chamber of Commerce is doing in a county of management, in this case it's the kiM Chamber of Commerce. I need to remind you of that. Here, throws one MP out of the bench - they're doing nothing. Just ask him what he's doing, and he doesn't do anything, and these people are at least honest and honest, and he wants to promote everything that's our economy, what kind of economy, there. It's impossible to talk about fighting for the state and the people and knowing the situation of all these KIM companies. You have deleted from DOS one law from the register all companies registered to KIM, whose owners had to flee under ballistic scepter knife and terror, or to avoid and are now exiled persons - whether in this so-called. the enclaves or me in Kragujevac, or anywhere, or they're in Montenegro. (President: Time) So what are we talking about? These people are asking us for protection. You see who they send the memos to. It's not something any of us need to brag about. But you see that they no longer trust anyone in the country, no Serb with KIM, except Serbian radicals. In addition, the results of the 11 May elections showed this, the results of the local elections and the republican elections. You have to fulfill your legal obligations as soon as possible, or those people will be forced to come before the government and the assembly building, and we will warn you every day. I'm sorry I timed out. It's an important situation. These people now, at this point, may not be able to monitor the transmission, without power, are at 15-20 hours, in some places and some municipalities do not have electricity. Think about it and start protecting what's most sacred - and that's every man on KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8307	The word is made by the People's MP Marina Ragush, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8308	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. On the basis of Article 225 and the need to inform the public in Serbia, only to refer to Miss Jovanovic, as regards the document we have come to, filed under the heading S 2008 692, UN Secretary General's report on the UNMIK mission in Kosovo. So, following the adoption of the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo on June 15th, Kosovo authorities of course continued to take other steps to implement statehood in that part of the territory. I'll quote you for the public, and all of you, what the parts of this report contain. The first Kosovo passports, under the 4th rule of law, were issued in July. Kosovo authorities, meaning UN Secretary-General, finds, have not introduced any restrictions on the use of Serbian passports. So let's move on -- the reconfiguration of Unmik, part 10, point 21 -- based on the agreement between the authorities in Belgrade and Pristina, is very important a few dates; on June 26th, the process of reconfiguring the Unmik in favour of Eulex began, based on Resolution 1244, which, to remind me, is flagrantly violated by the unilateral recognition of state independence created on Shipar terrorism. So this is totally legal violence. From this year on, the international justice system no longer exists. The most complex example of this is what happens on KIM by the United States, the Serbian authorities and what happened last night at the Security Council, and we didn't get a chance to find out. So let's move on -- the relationship between Unmik and Eulexes evolved during this process when this report took place. Mr Ban Ki Moon expects EULEX to move forward in terms of moving across the entire KIM territory, without resolution, without mandate, without any dialogue in the sense that Belgrade should decide on this. August 18th. Unmik and Eulex signed a technical agreement on the sale of total assets so that Eulex has material and technical assumptions that it works. In doing so, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon says Unmik has no opportunity, not even budgetary, to operate on the part of KIM territory, because the U.S. savagery has established EULEX, and the budget funds of Unmika have been seized. Since I exceeded 23 seconds, I hope Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic will have your understanding. Only a few more important points remain to be met by the public in Serbia, and I suppose some responsible parts of the Serbian government, which I am convinced are not for what is currently being carried out on KIM territory. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8309	Members of the 64th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan Veselinović and Zlata Djeric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, Honored Madam Minister, Honored citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 64. In the amendment, I asked for the position of the first member to be deleted. That attitude reads as follows: "A judge's discharge initiative can bear any face." Since there is already a known institution of the possibility of appeal of parties in the process, where dissatisfaction with the work of judges can be shown. So, file a complaint about the judge's work. So there are already enough disciplinary measures that can be intervened in the event that the judge does not perform his judicial duties in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I think this attitude is too high, first of all because he disciplines judges with fear, and that's not good. In addition, he goes into one constitutional member, a member of 149 concerning the independence of judges. For the sake of the public of Serbia, I will read it: "The judge is independent and subject only to the Constitution and the law. Any influence on the judge in the performance of the judge is prohibited." In light of the refusal of this amendment, it is mentioned that the public functions of the judge are at stake, I think the judges in their work and suffer too much public influence. They should be publicly criticised, their work should certainly be public, but we must not make a kind of estrada out of the judge's office. Because if this is how an initiative can be launched to resolve judges, imagine stakeholders, and we all know what kind of environment we live in, we're the principles of organized crime, and it's still all about the posthumb, and it's going to take Serbia a long time to deal with it, but imagine these organized groups, behind which are of great interest, in which they will expose the judges to the pressures. So the judges won't be independent. We already have a member of the 90s that we specifically discipline the judges in, which is also unconstitutional. So we must protect the judges and their integrity by this law. I don't think we should leave judges to the public in this way, because this is going to trigger all those who don't fit the work of the safe and good judges, that they're constantly pressuring them with their own actions, or they're going to constantly challenge them, that the judges are going to be able to defend themselves more than citizens. There's already a possibility, in the law provided, that judges can be called off, that judges have to answer for their work, so I think that this attitude, that every face we can load on their necks, is not good, and I think it should be deleted. This is an explanation of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8311	I thank Mrs. Djeric. First of all, Mrs. Marina Ragush's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8312	I'm really sorry, but I'm reporting again on the basis of Article 225. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but simply there is no other option, three minutes is an extremely short period, so that what matters on the 23rd side of the UN Secretary-General's report really goes through to that nervous system centre that needs to be heard at the moment when one state is committed, when 15% of the territory is hijacked, and where we should probably talk about some quite side-by-side things. Indeed, there is no need to talk about the legislative activity of the congregation. We absolutely don't need laws because absolutely everything that really means the prerogative of a state is done at this point. In part 11 of the dialogue with Belgrade, which we know nothing about, we have tried more than a month to find out and we have tried to call here both the President of the Republic and the competent minister, what it is that they are doing behind the backs of the MPs, legitimately elected representatives of the people and beyond every mandate of the National Assembly, we learn from the report by Mr Ban Ki Moon, that delegations in both Belgrade and Pristina, which were negotiated on the status of Eulexes, had no objections to the KIM status, which is confirmed by this report, as well as the Constitution of the newly elected state. Point 28 is very interesting, in which Ban Ki Moon says that this six-point framework, which we do not know exactly what the six-point framework is talking about again, but which areas should be arranged, only temporary, until the other negotiations are completed, and these negotiations should also apply to the 1.4-point annex proposed by the Albanian side in these negotiations. We finally get to part 12, they're observations. Point 48 says - in line with my special report presented by SB on 20 June, Unmik began to accept the structure and profile in response to the fundamental changes in the real situation in KIM, i.e. the newly created state, to Shipar terrorism, called the Republic of Kosovo. Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon further says - according to my instructions, my special representative and head of Unmika will be conducting preparations that should make EULEX operational. That's point 50. Again in Resolution 1244 of 1999, which was flagrantly violated by all the previous paragraphs of the UN Secretary-General's report, because the state of Kosovo has self-initiatedly declared its independence. What's equally significant, that's point 52 of my special representative... (President: Time. I will make an effort to complete the thought -- he launched a dialogue with the Serbian government on the areas I launched by letter to President Tadic on June 12th and the Serbian government adopted the results of the discussion. Finally – I apologize, I will no longer answer, because there is no point in reporting for this kind of explanation – Mr Ban Ki Moon says, I asked my special representative to convince - this is what our MPs from the KIM territory should know - the authorities in Pristina that this is only a temporary arrangement until the following conditions are agreed. The public in Serbia needs to know what kind of state we live in, what's going on in KIM territory, and unfortunately we're just doing U.S., Great Britain and Germany, without getting answers to what GNI agents were looking for in KIM territory. I apologize and thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8313	First, Mr. Lapcevic, then Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8314	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I report to the Rules of Procedure, member of 104 - dignity of the National Assembly. I will ask you, above all, as president of this House, to try to protect the dignity of this Parliament and the dignity of all the MPs in the future. Here's what caused it and what provoked this reaction of mine. The other day on TV, B92, was hosted by Mrs. Sonja Licht, the president, you already know which NGOs, then the Union of Employers and State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. A representative of the government, therefore, the state secretary of the finance ministry said the Serbian government proposed more than a month ago to the assembly to adopt a package of measures to combat the economic crisis. You all know, and you know, that no package of measures has been in the government, nor been adopted until the day of today, although the global economic crisis has been thundering all the countries for months, that in this assembly there is talk of an economic crisis that will hit Serbia very quickly for at least two months, and responsibility is being transferred to the Assembly, that the Assembly has been due for a month to adopt a package of measures that has not even been sent to the Assembly. The only law concerning one piece, and perhaps the smallest one, to combat the economic crisis, is the draft deposit insurance law. No other measure has been proposed by the government so far, and is constantly being transferred to the Assembly that it has not adopted something that the government has allegedly proposed. We have heard today that even the budget, which is announced to be thrifty, is not adopted by the government and is not known when it will be, and contrary to that, all serious countries are taking all major measures to counter the damage caused by the economic crisis. So, for example, in Great Britain, a package of stimulating measures will be worth 20 billion pounds, and VAT will be reduced to 15%. So 15 measures will be proposed in Germany, including tax breaks for purchases, etc. In France, 22 billion euros will be allocated to help small and medium-sized enterprises. On the contrary, interest is raised here on the dinar savings, which is only an imposition on the economy. Please, in accordance with what I said, react in the future and warn people who represent the ruling coalition and the government not to deceive the public with such untruths. I'm asking a question -- when are we going to get that thrifty budget, since we're only 15 days ago... (President: Time. () adopt one budget that everything can be, but can't be thrifty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8315	Your findings will be forwarded to the government. I've already given a few answers about the budget. Mrs. Jankovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8316	I believe that the amendment by my colleague Zlata Djeric should be adopted, not only because he is a member of the party with the most beautiful name - New Serbia, but because he really contributes to the improvement of this draft law on judges. The essence of this amendment is the insistence that institutions and individuals who are responsible for doing their jobs be restored to that degree of human and professional security, which would allow them to do their job fairly and with dignity, without additional pressure. In order for judges to really do the job, which by definition is stressful, difficult and sensitive, they cannot be in a position to suffer political persecution because of the correct professional decisions, but also the aggression of clients who have already accumulated so much dissatisfaction that it is only a matter of when their film will break down. It's customary for us to break a movie, usually to lose a hand. The independent judiciary, at least by definition, is often in the position of a crucifixion between the possibility that one call changes everything, and the other, no less realistic alternative, that a small angry man, wrought, masqueraded by all these powerful faces, right at the judge's exercise a new role as an angry sniper. If judges can't already be paid the way it would be necessary to do such a responsible job, I guess because there isn't a Krišt who as a little god, crossed this insane idea of a younger man, with a fist and a hat rewarding his own and himself, as if they are just doing open-heart operations, then these judges should at least be given back their dignity, respect and conditions for working on fair decisions. This amendment concerns the proposal for a law on judges, i.e. judicial action, but it also has a broader meaning, because in fact the idea contained can apply to any job that man is responsible for. The baker, the doctor, the pharmacist, all have the right to be respected and treated so that no one can train them to be strict or to treat their own frustrations. Speaking of which, it is necessary to point out the need to protect and adequately treat healthcare professionals, who are highly ranked on the list of prejudices about global unfairness and corruption besides judges and us MPs. In their dissatisfaction, many people are struck by those who are the first ones to care for life and make important choices for life. Without the idea of defending health care professionals who have sinned against the law, I am based, and I believe that the President of the Assembly will agree with me, that most doctors have remained faithful and consistent with Hippocrates' oaths and the fact that he is doing business under movable conditions. It's just, say, in the middle of the night to stop by the Emergency Center, see how and how all these people are fighting for human life. The fact that there's a weed doesn't give us the right not to register the grain that actually exists. I therefore think it is necessary to respect the requirements of the Doctors' and Pharmaceuticals Union of Serbia addressed to the Ministry of Health, the Assembly, the Medical Chamber and the Serbian Medical Society to protect healthcare professionals by giving them official status. The death of a nurse, who was killed by an ex-husband at the Clinical Centre of Serbia on Monday, restarted discussions on the safety of healthcare personnel, and trade unions have strongly criticised institutions that did not respect their request for official status, nor have they taken it seriously enough. That it also shows the fact that yesterday, journalists created a research venture into the security of the same health care facility, so they were able to enter a 15-centimeter-long knife. This basically means that it is possible for any polyclinic or hospital in Serbia to enter a man who can choose to kill employees or patients: a bomb, a gun, a knife or a machete. A statement by the director of Serbia's Clinical Centre Dr. Gjorge Bajec that such a thing could have happened anywhere sounds extremely cynical. Does he really think that health workers should be unsecured for the purpose of saving, and that each of the steps of the president of his party is closely followed by at least 50 people. Yesterday, while negotiations on the government's budget continued here across the street, in the unofficial government of this person's role as president, there was such security on the street that even pedestrians weren't allowed to move, as if we were playing ice-cold uncles, because my God, they're ambushing. If the president is only the first among the equal, then the essential safety conditions at work and in work should also be provided to health workers, and to bakers, and pharmacists and judges. It is not enough that the eternal health minister has determined by the business code that medics should dress and comb, when the same code does not specify the rule of banning the introduction of weapons into health institutions. When you've finished these European laws, let's get back to those old Serb wounds. Namely, a proposal to amend the Criminal Law The Doctors' and Pharmaceuticals Union to the Ministry of Health was submitted to the Ministry of Health in March 2008. But to begin with, adopt the amendment of Zlata Đeric, only to really start us off.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8317	Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? Mr. Palalic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8318	Dear President, the Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is an extremely important amendment on a subject that is very sensitive and special when it comes to the functioning of the judiciary, when it comes to what we say about independence in making court decisions, which is a matter of dissuasion of judges. We are witnesses that in the previous period when this institute was concerned, the question of dispensing judges, there was not enough hearing, nor enough courage to face the fact that a number of judges did not professionally and securely perform their duties. In several previous National Assembly meetings, there were not many requirements for the resolution of judges when it came to intricacies and unconsciousness in the exercise of judicial office, and this merely pointed to the fact that a number of judges were protected under the judicial system for collegiate reasons. Article 62 of this law has very precisely defined the reasons on which the proceedings for the resolution of judges are initiated and they are very concrete, clear and there is nothing to object to. Of course, there is also the fact of a serious disciplinary offense, which I have pointed out several times in my presentation, that this law is in a rather detailed way to regulate the reasons why discipline is being initiated and disciplined. But then in this Article, Article 64, point one, we face a single norm that can cause very, very big problems. If we know that the three reasons for the resolution are, if the judge is convicted of a criminal offence on an unconditional sentence of six months or a criminal act that makes him unworthy of judicial functions, when he performs an unequivocally or for a serious disciplinary offence, it is absolutely unclear and we would also like to hear from the distinguished Minister Malovic the reasons why any person can be designated as the initiator for the initiation of the discharge proceedings. Here, let's see for these three reasons why it is given the right of every person to initiate a procedure for resolution, if we know the fact that the judge was convicted of a criminal offence on an unconditional sentence of imprisonment, or that he was convicted at all of any action, each state authority will surely deliver it to the competent court, whether the court in the neighbouring court, or to a directly higher court, and that is the fact that the President of the Court is getting to know him, which in paragraph 2, we see that the person who initiates the procedure for resolution. As far as instruction is concerned as a reason for resolution, it is absolutely unclear how any person can appreciate the judge's expertise in one case or even in the performance of his judicial function. In addition to the knowledge gained in law school, the case-law is a serious trade, where each judge acquires and learns, and experience and expertise by doing this work through the educations he attends and which are organised under the judiciary. It is simply unclear that a natural person, who may be very interested in the procedure, may be dissatisfied with the way the proceedings are being conducted or someone else connected to the procedure initiates the fact that the judge is being resolved. There we can be faced with various kinds of abuses, because a natural person can have various kinds of helpers inside the court by, say, the President of the Court, who can, from some other motives, initiate a procedure for resolution. So it's simply unclear how someone can be given the right to appreciate expertise without being part of that narrow judicial circle of persons who can really consider whether someone is expert in performing a judicial function. As for the third reason, it is quite unclear why it would be possible for a person to initiate a resolution if it is known that a disciplinary case is being conducted against the judge, we know that there are the powers of the High Council of Justice very clearly and we do not see why someone outside that circle of authority, such as the High Council of the Judiciary or the President of the Court who is familiar with the conduct of the disciplinary procedure, should initiate the procedure for resolution. When we take all three of these reasons that stand in place, it is completely unclear why someone outside the circle of these faces, the President of the Court, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation or the Supreme Council of the judiciary, would have the right to even deal with such a serious issue. We have not heard any arguments, and this amendment and amendment of counterpart Milan Veselinović, who is practically identical, have been absolutely established and we believe that this position of the 1st Article 64 must be deleted in order to prevent serious pressures on judges outside those bodies and those who can only appreciate the expertise, security and the overall quality of the work of the judicial staff. Please, Honorable Minister Malovic, accept this amendment or simply come out and explain to the MPs what is the motivation to give such a broad circle of faces the right to initiate a judge's resolution. Respecting the fact that there is a great mistrust of citizens with justice and that the very kind of mistrust that exists can now be an additional motive for a large number of people to suffer the presidents of judicial initiatives to resolve for a variety of reasons, and that we have the presidents of the courts who will only deal with these initiatives, and by refusing these initiatives, they will spread even more mistrust to the judiciary. And then you will have persons who have submitted initiatives motivated by their own personal reasons, problems that their friends and relatives have in front of the judicial authorities, perhaps motivated by their understanding of justice, even though they have no insight into the evidence process, established facts during the course of the procedure, in the fact that the procedure for various reasons takes longer, that multiple times before the senior authorities by appeal, by extraordinary legal remedies, and by various persons from their motives of understanding of justice can initiate resolution initiatives. So it can create serious problems, bury the presidents of the courts with these initiatives. And, I say, by refusing, and I am convinced that the largest number of such initiatives will be unfounded. I am convinced that the largest number of such initiatives will be unfounded, because none of these initiatives can, especially the first and third, criminal acts and disciplinary offences, these ordinary faces do not even have to know that it happened. Instruction is indeed one thing that only judicial institutions can give a decisive answer and should not give the right wide circle of faces to appreciate the intricacies of judges, which will put additional pressure on judges and uncertainty in their work. If judges judge with this kind of pressure, that any person can launch an initiative for their resolution because someone thinks he is unprofessional, I fear that the principle declared in this law, judicial independence and impartiality in the trial will be seriously questioned. Once again, I call on Minister Malovic to simply give an explanation to the MPs, I believe that both the judicial public and the judicial public are waiting to hear. I believe that they will respect the arguments made by the MPs, and colleague Zlata Djeric, who has also probably also been presented by representatives of other opposition parties who will speak according to the amendment. Finally, I believe that this is the president of the National Assembly, perhaps repeatedly pointed out today, but I want to say that it is truly inappropriate that by today the budget, the draft budget, and that because of all these problems that we have in society and the expectations of the public to solve these economic problems, another such message that the state is not able to even make a budget, in addition to the fact that it has not proposed to the National Assembly any more serious measure to combat the economic crisis, has not even made an announcement, this fact that we have not received even more uncertainty until today, even more uncertainty, even greater anxiety among citizens that the state does not have a clear strategy and clear answers to what is being prepared and these major economic problems that are approaching us. In that sense, I also appeal to the National Assembly President to make a request to the Government to come out here with a draft budget as soon as possible to lower these tensions and to send a message to the citizens that there is something serious going on in solving the economic crisis. But the fact that we don't have a budget speaks again about the inconclusiveness of the government and the unpreparedness to deal with these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8319	Thank you, Mr. Palalic, but let me remind you that last year's budget arrived at today's meeting. Notice: We expect to have a budget here at the beginning of next week. Ambassador Zoran Bortic submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Gojko Radic, who is justly absent at the moment, has submitted an amendment to Article 76, so I would like to say a few words about this amendment. The amendment essentially treats the procedure for determining the reason for the court president's resolution and suggests a merger of the first and second positions, according to Gojko Radic, and in the opinion of the Serbian Progressive Party, in a much better position, a position that is clearer. We propose to the MPs to consider this amendment, regardless of what the government has rejected. We think it would be a shame not to respect him. If I may, I would take the opportunity, first of all for the public and for the citizens of Serbia, to say once again that the Serbian Progressive Party will not vote on this set of judicial laws and that therefore there are many reasons. Of course, it is seen primarily by the number of amendments how dissatisfaction of all MPs, how dissatisfaction with the public, and I would say dissatisfaction in the judiciary, the employees of the judiciary, because these laws are not accepted by the employees of the judiciary, there was no adequate debate among the people of the profession. The re-election of judges alone is unconstitutional. That's what's obvious. This set of laws endangers the independence and impartiality of judges. At the same time, there is no respect for the division of judicial, legislative and executive powers. There is no respect for the principle of continuity of the judge's office, above all in the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. And we from the Serbian Progressive Party and the Prost-Tomislav Nikolic parliamentary group will have the opportunity to talk about the territorial distribution of Serbian-level courts, not all municipalities are respected, all municipal courts that exist today, but in order not to remain unclear, I would like to say that the SNS is not satisfied with the situation in the judiciary, that in any case for reforms in the judiciary, that we must correct the efficiency of the judiciary, but not through lustration directed by ruling parties, but through a much more serious public debate and discussion. Finally, I urge you once again to consider this amendment to my colleague, Gojko Radic, and support him in the voting day. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8321	Mr. Milan Avramovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to the amendment, to resolve some of the concerns that have remained unresolved in the matter of performing a judicial function in general. Madam Minister, it is very important that you participate in this debate because I have a number of issues concerning the work of judges, more specifically the work of the District Court in Belgrade. First, I must remind you that a statement from the Judges' Association was issued in Politics on November 27th. He says, "Employees insult and put pressure on judges. The society of Serbia's judges has protested yesterday against the behaviour of some Serbian Parliamentarians who, the Society claims, are deliberately commenting on court decisions in a debate on amendments to judicial laws that put direct pressure on judges. Under the pronunciation of the proper notification of Serbian citizens and freedom of expression of opinion for the assembly speaker, in the form of discussions under amendments to judicial laws, some MPs deliberately comment on judicial decisions, amounting to insinuations and false information, insult and put direct pressure on judges who act in electoral and other court cases and create an atmosphere of lynches,''' said in a statement by the Association of Judges of Serbia who carry out the Tanjug. Here, we have that statement, so there are no fakes. Now what's very important. He says, "The Society of Judges supported the Justice Ministry, which, according to Beta, estimated that insulting judges and commenting on the verdicts reached at the Serbian Parliament's pay phone was the most direct pressure on the judiciary and violation of the law. "Imagine this now that we have violated, Madam Minister, the law, that we have committed a crime by commenting on the verdicts made. Remember only the president of Serbia, who went to trial for the murder of Zoran Djindjic and who said in advance that those convicts must have the most severe sentence for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, and they were not yet convicted; was it then the pressure on the judiciary, was not the pressure on his presence at the trial. No, it wasn't pressure because it was the DS, because it was a democratic court, and because you supported this, a report by the Society of Judges, and you don't know what it was, what the MPs of the SRS or the opposition or any other party said, and that the right to continue this text has been acquired, saying: "It is indicated by such interference of legislation in the judicial authority that the independence of the courts is being violated." So he says, you let this go, Madam Minister -- "The Justice Department expects the authorities to do so, and above all the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to determine whether there are any elements of the criminal act of jeopardising the safety of the holders of judicial functions." Is this possible? Minister, this is what your ministry put in the paper. Let me remind you, I'm not a lawyer, so some things here are very clear to me, but I remind you of the Criminal Code, Article 138. He says, who threatens the safety of a person by threatening to attack the life or body of that person or a close person will be punished by prison for up to one year. Item 2 — which makes the work described in Article 1 more public or if the work has caused the anxiety of citizens or other serious consequences, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years. Now I ask you, is this a lynch judge from the assembly speaker or is it the Ministry's report, along with this statement from the Society of Judges, the lynch of the MPs? Let us now not enter into the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the immunity of the MP, lest I enter into these things, is this a link to the MPs, or is it a link of the messengers to the judges? Judges should not be fair enough to worry about what the MPs of the SRS will say. Only those judges who don't respect the code have problems with this, and the code passed by the Association of Judges on 9 May 1998. Just to read for the public some canon of this code, which is why we call the Belgrade District Court and two judicial councils who do nothing in this code. It is said: It is aware that as judges decide on life and death, freedom and freedom, property and property, human rights and suffering, truths and lies, the use and abuse of rights, constitutionality and legality, members of the Society of Judges, with a sense of responsibility for public trust which they are given and the reputation of the profession they are dealing with, determine the code. So says Canon One, the judge has to confess to everyone what belongs to him. Does the Law on Local Election mean that the mandates belong to the SRS? They belong. Let's move on: in equal treatment with equal things, in unequal treatment of unequal things. Now, that, Madam Minister, is the same judicial council, which makes two different judgments because it has the same situation with different municipalities, and for one municipality, it says that, we respect your suit, it doesn't matter that they don't have an agreement there to break up mutual relations between applicants of the electoral list and committees because it's not prescribed by law, it can't exist, and on the other hand, there's an agreement to break up mutual relations, although it's not prescribed by law and under that contract we don't respect your suit and we don't return the mandates of the SRS. What's the point? What's the simplest thing here: orchestrated organized crime by individual judges. So, for the real judges, this picture applies here, and for the false judges, let them always feel threatened by this assembly pay phone because they don't work in accordance with the canons, even the ones they prescribed. Now let me move on. Canon 4 says the judge should be free to decide and therefore must be able to resist daily politics, power centers, public opinion, prejudices, temptations, vices, passions, private, family interests, and other internal and external influences. A canon that doesn't respect the court council. Now I'm going to tell you the court council what it doesn't respect. So the first is power to conclude the contract. Milisav Milickovic, an ex-officer, of the SRS, with the authority to conclude an agreement on mutual relations between the SRS and the council, also could not abuse in court, so he approved an agreement to terminate the contract in the municipality. Imagine, at the authority of the municipality, the court delivers a solution and says - insight into the case files found that mutual contracts between the applicant and certain committees had been terminated. The ordinary layman, and the lawyer, and the trainee, are clear that any argument must be put in the court's report or decision based on the facts and insight into the situation. This situation says this, I'll read to you that it would be a lot easier for citizens -- we're also due to these quasi-hazarded judges, who are not doing their job properly, to apply for an extraordinary examination of the judgment of the District Court of UZ 93/2008. Watch what the judges of the District Court, Mirjana Arangelovic, Dusica Marinkovic and Mirjana Ridjski - The district court finds it the right decision by SO Rakovic not to return the mandates of the SRS, as the SRS as the applicant does not have legally valid agreements on regulating mutual relations. What the woman says is, you don't have termination contracts. We can't have them because they don't exist. There is no authority and the law is not allowed. Articles 46 and 47. The law on local elections makes that clear. He says so - citing the fact that the contracts that exist in the file are not legally valid, the biggest complex of this judge, since he no longer knows what grounds to call for the appeal, says, it is particularly interesting, given that in the final position of the court's argument, the Court concludes that the appeals, the agreement on the termination of the contract, do not have a legal fact and that they have been committed by criminal acts, do not influence the court's decision until the judicial ruling of the competent court is ensured. That competent court, on the basis of what it does not have, is a verdict and acknowledges it in this explanation. Then you say we're doing the lynch from this assembly pay phone. Madam Minister, do you agree with this statement that came out in "Politics"? Is it true that MPs committed a crime by pointing to the court council of Mirjana Arangelovic, Dusice Marinkovic and Mirjana Ridjski, for their crime, which was rejected by complaints from the SRS board about a week ago, and accepted the same appeal from another municipality a month and a half ago. Do you think we've committed a crime here? It's very important to me that I know whether you agree or not? To know where you ended up in law school, with what average grade? Let's see if you as the Minister, the most professional lawyer at the head of the ministry, are able to educate your judges to that extent, and even through this law that we disagree with, because we didn't ask for lustration. We didn't ask for re-election. That's what you're looking for, and the consequences are these newspaper texts, these judgments from the District Court in Belgrade. Don't think that we don't follow this, that we don't write thoroughly, and we don't respect all the legal norms and legal remedies that we're allowed to do, and that we're going to banish this by the end of six months, and in nine months. We will not allow free court interpretation of his will as a political party, as is his financial situation in the house, and that he mocks all other judges who work fairly, that on the basis of one individual, all judges in the court are marked not to be professional, that they are not competent that they are not just as the Codex which adopted this association. I had to make a few facts and a few things that were left unexplained. That's why I'm calling you, coming out, tell me, was there any threat to the safety of any judge? Is this the link between the opposition MPs or judges who don't do their job? For this text in "Politics" to throw out the denials, if you don't agree with this, and if you agree with this, give us confirmation from this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8323	Here you go. Mr. Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8324	Ladies and gentlemen, it's obvious from all the discussions and what the Ministry has done to the bill's proposals that the problem in the judiciary is systemic. In one of my previous speeches, on behalf of the SPO, I have estimated that responsibility does not stand exclusively on the judges, but probably on judges to a significant extent, if not the greatest extent. We have indicated what is necessary to make the judge truly and materially secure, both impartial and objective. If the motion to dismiss the President of the Court or the Judge could not trigger every person, then it would be analogous that not every person has the right to file a criminal complaint either. Applications and initiatives are often absolutely unfounded. But often and very well-founded, because no one is interested in the legality and regularity of the decision, after the state and the judges, in relation to the party, the damaged person or person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted. What are the powers, to distinguish it for the public, that face. Just to start the initiative and nothing else. The decision to initiate the procedure shall not be taken by that person, the proceedings shall not be carried out by that person and the decision to discharge shall be carried out by other authorities. I think it's the right of every citizen to point to the illegality of the court's work. It's not a secret, I spoke to Mrs. Judith Popovic yesterday, and I would ask you to pay attention to a phenomenon that happens in front of the Zrenjanin Municipal Court. In fact, a few years ago, one of the lawyers came up with an idea, and that's the unofficial knowledge we hear in the court hallway, that every car accident charges fear for the suffering of all passengers and participants in that car accident. In what legal position and material position are we bringing in some traffic accident participant who has done a minor material damage of 10-20 thousand dinars and paid for some insignificant criminal punishment. Here's what. The municipality court in Zrenjanin has been overrun by hundreds of cases for suffering mental suffering because of the fear of a person who has not suffered any physical injury and where there is little material damage. As far as we know, no one has been denied until now. Madam President of the Assembly knows from his profession that the single women who, let's say, are extremely sensitive, who have a predisposed factor in the suffering of fear, because everyone in the given situation is equally not afraid, and if they have experienced a particular trauma, they can exercise the right to compensation for damages. However, before the Municipality court in Zrenjanin, all persons are given first 40, then 50, 60,000 dinars, and eventually all 1,000 euros. Since the value of the case does not have an audit basis, the District Court is absolutely linearly confirming all these verdicts, and the maltene court experts simply overwrite the name and last name of the prosecutor. All because their broken headlight suffered extraordinary mental suffering. Everyone was traumatized about it. Everyone didn't sleep at night because of that. When they pass the accident site, they return film and memory to the scene of the accident, and so do volunteers from the battlefield, and taxi drivers, and police officers, and people who do more serious jobs in the profession. So, for example, he was charged with the damage of taxi drivers who, immediately after the accident, continued to drive, but he suffered extraordinary mental suffering, sweating and phobias, etc. It's not the one who thought of this. The problem is everyone who doesn't stand up to this. So if he's accepted one lawyer, another lawyer, fifth lawyer, if all the court experts have accepted, if they've accepted all the judges, then the problem is much deeper than we think. When it comes to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, we can talk about abuses in much more complex and much more responsible cases, and the next time I talk about one particular invention, neck stretches in front of the municipal court in Novi Sad, absolutely analogous to what is happening in Zrenjanin, and this recipe is taken over by the Municipal Court in Zrenjanin and the Municipal Court in Vrbas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8325	Anyone else want a word? The highest number of judges and artists is extremely safe doing their job. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment that reads, "In Article 76, Section One is deleted." The position is - any person can submit an initiative to dismiss the president of the court. I think it's an undefined and far-reaching norm, so I find it absurd and pointless. It is said in the government's explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons given for not accepting the amendments in point 29, and in point 29. I think it is a mistake and that the explanation refers to an amendment submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic to Article 64, where, among other things, it is said that it is a significant function which is subject to the public court, so it is estimated that everyone can submit an initiative for resolution, and it is not known to whom the initiative is being submitted, so it is only this argument that I think makes no sense. Since each function is public and significant, then any person can submit an initiative, for example, to resolve the Prime Minister or any other official, but that is not possible under the existing law. It is known that, to whom and from whom the initiative is submitted, the laws governing this matter are not familiar with the term "every face". The authorities on whose proposal to initiate the discharge procedure to any member of this law and even to Article 76 shall not undertake to consider, reject or accept any initiative and inform the applicant thereof. The term "every person" is completely inappropriate to one law, whose provisions must be clear, precise and unequivocal, so it is therefore incredibly subject to various manipulations and abuses literally of every person. "Every person" is a notion that applies, I only quote some examples, to every legal person, to every citizen of the world, to every citizen of Serbia, to every adult and underage person, to every business capable person, to every adult person under custody, to every mentally retarded person, to every mentally ill person, to those who are deprived of all civil rights or persons who are sentenced to long-term imprisonment, so they have enough time to write various initiatives. If this amendment is not accepted in the voting day, I can safely assume that any participant in any court trial will be able to submit an initiative to resolve either the judge or the judge for any reason, thinking that it can delay the trial or the verdict indefinitely. Given that no member of the proposed law has been determined to whom the initiative is being submitted, its further fate is uncertain. However, there is a possibility that someone's initiatives, in addition to all the ambiguities, will end up where they need to be and achieve the goal, while other initiatives will end up at different addresses. In practice, it will happen that the initiative of each person and the same initiative of a strong person, as it is said, will be treated differently by the minister and the body of evaluation of the work of the President of the Court, the disciplinary commission and all the judges whose president is being resolved. Of course, initiatives could also be ordered by unsuspecting, lewd persons, various careers or political opponents of the president of the court. It may happen that judges themselves abuse this possibility, especially if they choose in the way provided for by this bill. If the courts are buried with initiatives to resolve the judges and the president of the court, I wonder if they will be able to handle cases in lawsuits. In addition, any unserious, unfounded initiative will be a personal attack, judicial dignity and honor. Under such pressures, persecutions and stress, the office of the president of the court and the judge would be reduced to satisfying everyone and everyone. So from what I've said, and what results from the indetermination of the concept of every person, if not erased, will mean much less than the famous weather forecast, slightly to moderately cloudy, which leaves us with the opportunity to believe that we are expected to have a nice time, but not necessarily. I hope that the logic and reasonable observation of this problem will prevail and that the majority of the assembly will accept the removal of this member, especially since its eradication does not change the essence of the law itself, nor does it challenge the right of interested or professional persons to, as so far, initiate the decision of the President of the Court according to the envisaged procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8327	Thank you. Has anyone else answered? No, I don't. ) Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the defense of my amendment, I must warn that person who spoke before Parliamentarian Avramovic did not turn the microphone because he could be electrocuted. To remind him that a few years ago, when he was stealing electricity, he fell off a ganger. There's an electro-distribution lawsuit, they barely recovered it. So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to discuss Article 76 and the procedures for determining the reasons for the court's decision, we must return to Article 69, which regulates the election of the President of the Court. He says this - a judge between judges of the same or higher degree may be elected by a judge who has the express capacity to handle and organise cases in court, and in accordance with the criteria adopted by the High Court Council. There's only more pictures missing here. Given that there is a whole set of laws in the area of justice that we will discuss and which regulate a little different courts, especially the law on the regulation of courts and the law on seats and areas, to remind you, two basic courts are provided for Belgrade, one that will cover the entire area of the city and another that will cover suburban municipalities. In that case, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that president of the court will have more than 200 judges, which is what the litigators, which I'm talking about in this first basic court in Belgrade, will have over 400 associates and trainees, and will be Admiral. First of all, they won't even know the names of all the judges who are under his conductor stick without me talking about associates, interns, etc. The mastodon you're about to make, and you're probably going to vote, because you have 126 MPs, will be absolutely incompetent to chew up all the applications, all the lawsuits that are in both cases, both in criminal and litigation cases, already found and piled up, and we have a situation where the litigation goes on for 20 years and that the guilt goes on for several years. We are now in the situation that the draft law, in Article 76, says: "The procedure for determining the reasons for the court's resolution is being initiated on the proposal of the President directly to the High Court (which is fine), the sittings of all judges of which is the President (which is absolutely not right and impossible), the Minister of Justice (it is fine), the authority responsible for the evaluation of the work of the President of the Court and the Disciplinary Commission" (it is also fine). My amendment refers to erasing the words "sessions of all judges whose president is the court" in point 3. Imagine that a procedure should be initiated to resolve the president of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, which has 200 judges. Is there a theoretical possibility that all 200 judges in one place meet at one time and that everyone thinks the same thing - that the President of the Court should be resolved? Isn't there a possibility, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a fat manipulation here? Isn't there a possibility of bribing at least one of those judges? Isn't there a possibility that at least one of the judges will say "I won't change the President of the Court"? And the initiative that would be launched by all the judges is thus falling, so before we have situations that both grandparents, grandparents, and fathers, and mothers, even sons, have not yet arrived in the courts, but it's probably the place for them. The grandkids will work when Grandpa retires. Let me remind you, one judge who judged a great trial, who said, "Here, we finally got the verdict," so I didn't "take the verdict", we didn't "take the verdict" but we got the verdict, which suggests directly that the verdict came from somewhere and she only had the role of a speaker to read the verdict. Her whole family, at least two-thirds of her family works in court. Will she, in a situation where she's the president of the court, and she's highly ranked for that place, by reading that verdict she's "getting", whether her son, her sister-in-law, or not know who's already working in the judiciary, say "I'm about to take her shift"? He won't. One says "I won't" and enough. It clearly says here "sessions of all judges whose judge is president" and automatically this part falls into the water, or the President of the Court is irrevocable. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this set of laws that we are making and which is tied to the judiciary will cause a general tsunami in the judiciary. When courts are reorganized, when prosecutors are reorganized, when the judiciary is reorganized, it takes a few months to reorganize. Once it's reorganized, it'll only take a few more years to spy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remind you of this "yellow company" and its strikers, its supporters, its trabants, those who help him rule, to stop playing. It's been a year, it's two years, but five or six years to think and it's too much. Soon, Serbia's citizens, forced by this economic crisis which, too, the same "yellow company" will fail and fail to resolve, will soon be huge in front of people's kitchens, soon Serbia's citizens will have to look for new elections, to look for some new people who, like this, are not able to get off their backs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this is at the same time a major degradation of the judiciary institution itself, the degradation of judges, the degradation of the prosecution, the degradation of all those who should at least hold or contribute to the holding of those terrorisms that Justition holds. Although, long ago, they put a blindfold on Justition's eyes so he couldn't see who he was judging and that he had to measure the way the terrorism showed. It seems to me that this link your Justition holds is made of very transparent paper and is generally tried not by justice, not by law, but by the current political need of some who will return the favor in one way or another. To remind you that there are many honorable judges, that there are a large number of honorable judges who honor this very difficult and responsible job, that there are a number of honourable prosecutors who are very responsible for this job, that there are a number of honourable presidents of the courts or public prosecutors who are training under-judgment in this court and for one and another branch of the judiciary. And we are witnessing that you have just elected judges - secretaries of agricultural cooperatives in the past term, secretaries of primary and secondary schools. The only thing that mattered was that they had a law degree, that they had, eventually, passed a judicial exam and had a membership card of "yellow companies" or those of her assistants and strikers. In doing so, I think of those who are in government and those who are at a low start, waiting only for someone to move and run into the government. That's why this amendment of mine needs to be adopted. I think at least in this article, he's going to clean up one illogicality, one dilemma and one inapplicable situation with this member. You can never gather all the judges of one court, especially these great courts you're planning, and you'll never be able to share with all the judges the same position that the President of the Court needs to be replaced. If nothing else, then the president of the court will raise one of the judges, advance, help him, give him less difficult or very attractive cases, and that will end the job. That is why I believe that this amendment should be adopted. Since Mrs Malovic is not here, I am trying to convince the MPs and these other groups that in the voting day, when this amendment is on the vote, they will press the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8329	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Srdjan Spasojevic wrote a letter to withdraw the amendment that he submitted to Article 79. It's a bill of law. So we're not discussing him. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mrs. Ragush want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, present representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the amendment had to effectively erase Article 2 81's position, in which it is said - when a jury judge is appointed, it takes care of the gender, age, interest and social position of the candidates, knowledge, expertise and affection towards certain types of judicial matters. The SRS believes that this position 2 may even be too high as regards Article 81, because Article 1 says - a jury judge may be appointed a full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia who is worthy of the functions of a jury judge. The very word "worthy" should really be more than enough to carry out the judge's duties as a jury. We think that sometimes it is really very difficult to establish all these criteria and get concrete information when it comes to gender, age, profession, social position, knowledge, expertise, tendency to certain kinds of judicial matters. Why do we think that? Because we have simply tried several times to obtain certain specific data, and it concerns the executioners of judicial duties. Not entering the qualification of whether someone is qualified, qualified, or worthy of judicial duties, he is spoken of by actions and judges, of course, by what they leave behind as a result of the work. We have not been able to reach this data, which will say that in eight years' time, certain reforms are being implemented in the judiciary, in the direction of moving towards achieving European standards, what is noticeable, that there is actually complete chaos in Serbia's judiciary. It may be the word "complete" and too strong, but we couldn't get the information that the number of judges, in particular, has dual citizenship. Why? Not actually entering individual cases of any judge, because the data has not yet been verified, we're waiting for the Department of Justice to deliver to us, because we assume that you have channels through which you can first access that data. Our data suggests that in the Serbian judiciary somewhere more than 20% of judges have dual citizenship. Perhaps this would not be such a problem, we have, in parallel practice now, somehow further explored, so we have seen that serious states that are seriously engaged in the establishment, i.e. by preserving the functioning of the rule of law, rule out the possibility that persons who possess another citizenship perform a judicial duty, especially when it comes to certain degrees of judicial authority. Why? You will have cases concerning, for example, Croatian or Slovenian citizens, how in this situation the judges who have the citizenship of these states from the immediate environment will judge. Let's say, in particular, the SRS continued to investigate, too, data that in the Special Court of War Crimes there are judges who have dual citizenship. It's sensitive matter, and that's why we thought about it, but because of the speed of all of this and the inability to normally respond to legal proposals here within that scheduled time frame, we try to correct the bill with quality amendments. We thought, too, that we should amend or suggest that the motioner think, let's say, of Article 43. The law on judges, regarding the election of judges, to add only one word that would be sufficient to protect the actual exercise of judicial duty, and then, of course, the entire judiciary, as a national state interest in this case, to add only the word "exclusive". So the judge can only be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. It's our political stance. We have justifiable reasons for that, but maybe not this time, maybe in some other situations. We think that there is a certain gap, which would still not have hit on that European standard concerning national minorities issues and all other criteria that the civilised European world respects. And let me repeat, in a comparative analysis, we have concluded that, for example, the situation in very serious countries, which are very serious about the right to a fair trial, and also that they have much more effective judicial systems, do not allow this kind of conflict because a citizen of a state cannot actually serve two masters, an old and a basic rule. We think that this can create certain problems in the exercise of judicial duties, especially in the situation where we are trying to understand how the Ministry of Justice will manage to implement the reform that it has provided for in this set of laws and that the judiciary is beginning to operate under the European framework on 1 January 2010, when this has failed for the past eight years. We hear, through some attempts at debate in the professional public, that the number of judges should be severely reduced. Here, we really suspect that this is still about the lustration of certain judges, that this is a direct pressure on the judges, that in terms of depolitisation and the achievement of independence in the performance of the judge's duty you will not succeed, for one simple reason that the judges are already suffering a certain torture. Because a certain degree of corruption is indeed already a differential diagnosis of the Serbian judiciary. We think that, given everything that has been proposed both to the general state and the general atmosphere in Serbian society, the Ministry of Justice and all the competent authorities will not be able to deal with it. Here, a while ago, maybe two nights ago, on one of the televisions, we had the opportunity to listen to something that should look like a public debate on such an important set of laws that introduced a reform of the judicial system, as well as from the president of the Judges' Society, we heard a very serious qualification that judges who went to the Society of Judges had a particular threat. We also read on your official website of the Justice Ministry that you honor the MPs that because of the advocacy of a direct, name and last name, the judges who have indeed achieved a completely different case law on the same claim, that actually the MPs have offended these people in a certain way. Now we're asking you specifically, how will you manage to preserve the integrity, the independence of the judges and to preserve any judge who will judge, for example, on a plea for organized crime? How will you prevent the presidents of judges, who are mostly very closely related to certain political groups, parties, tycoons, etc., from threatening their colleagues, according to the judge's president, not to play with their career by criticising the proposal, imagine, dare they criticise the proposed set of judicial laws. What I would really like you to have in mind, of course, to try to convince us, in what way will you, for example, prevent a bomb from being planted to a judge to determine a life sentence or a really high amount of years in prison to be proved to be part of organized crime, to, say, subjugate by the Constitution a guaranteed system? How are you going to convince a judge to judge by his own conscience, professional responsibility, under the entire pressure? We are, unfortunately, witnessing daily intimidation, and what is the worst, even those worst cases of the liquidation of judges. We are also witnesses daily, and that is something that should be addressed by the Ministry of Justice when you have already stepped into such a serious reform, that the presumption of innocence is absolutely done and put aside. Why? Because you have the media in which the verdicts are already being declared. It's a certain kind of pressure on the judge. In telling the prime minister's murder conviction, you had a situation where the president of the state sat down directly with his presence, could be interpreted, influenced by the decision-making process. You also have a completely inefficient justice system, but right now, objects that last so many years, and it's not only about cases, but also about people who are trying to achieve justice and justice. We of the SRS are really interested in how you will make these people come to justice during their lifetime. We also have cases that the Serbian Supreme Court will judge in favour of a man by respecting indeed only the letter of the law, and that the executive power absolutely derivates a judicial judicial judicial decision by saying - no, we find that it is unacceptable for this or that reason. So, the atmosphere in which we are now trying to talk about the start of reforms, which should respect the standards against which really none of the present MPs can be, if it is a right to a fair trial, which, of course, provides for the fulfillment of the Corps of all those fundamental human rights, and in a special place of efficiency and the attainment of justice, we really believe that what is important is that this set of judicial laws may have to wait for a more normal time, that a qualified expert debate in the public is really taking place, not only within the Society of Judges, but within the overall qualified public, where we will have the opportunity to hear the naturally conflicted views of the professors of the Belgrade University of Law, the international public - we think this is too fast. We have made certain failures as an opposition for the simple reason that we haven't had enough time to amend the bill, and we think that it can again directly affect the everyday lives of citizens who are trying to reach the satisfaction of justice. What is basic and what you have said, in fact, by this text that we have received as MPs, is that in this part of the position of judges in the Republic of Serbia, so far governed by the Law on Judges of 2001, which was adopted on the basis of the provisions of the former Constitution, has already become obsolete in many elements. Therefore, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted on 10 November 2006, the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and at the same time declared the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribed deadlines for the harmonisation of the legal system and the start of the work of state authorities in accordance with their new constitutional and legal position, is imposed as a constitutional obligation to adopt a new law on judges. This is, of course, fantastic. That wouldn't be at all controversial in any part, if we didn't have a member of 142. The constitution that says - judicial authority is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Tell me, what about Kosovo and Metohija? I thank you for your attention. Now, I'm leaving maybe another minute and a half, and I expect to answer these questions that I've asked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8331	Mr. Milos Radulovic, I didn't understand if it was an amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8332	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. The MP shall have the right to be informed of any questions necessary for the function of the MP. For a more complete notification to the MPs, the official publications of the National Assembly, information and documentation material on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session and on other issues from the work of the National Assembly are regularly provided. Mrs. Dejanovic, today we have repeatedly insisted that we get an answer - what about the 2009 budget? You gave us an explanation here that last year the government delivered on today, so November 27th, the 2008 budget. However, today is 27. As the government did not make a decision at today's session and did not submit the proposal to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year, I ask the question to the Prime Minister and to the competent ministers, especially for the reason that Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, prime minister, is in priority, in what the government will stand for - the preservation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia, the necessity of strengthening the economy and the social responsibility of the government. Just the lack of this budget at times when the world is affecting the monster of a major economic crisis, meaning no economic vision and social security strategy, we see what this government has to do with Serbian citizens, means -- we don't have a budget today, we don't have, unlike all the countries in the environment, a strategy that these countries are dealing with the economic crisis. Finally, the status neutrality of the Eulexa mission in KIM, contrary to Resolution 1244 of the Security Council on Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty in KIM territory. You're in this business, and you're showing right now that you're ready to sell Kosovo and that the main strategy for you is the loss of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8333	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. So the question is to the government. Here, on many occasions, I said that I had contacted you personally, that you were working intensively on that text and that we would get it at the latest at the beginning of next week. That's the information I have. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ambassador Zlata Djeric submitted to the 90th Amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8334	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, respected citizens of Serbia, in Article 90(1) following the words "infringing the principle of impartiality" add the words "membership in the political party and public promotion of political principles of a political party" -- so the amendment reads. Which is why I have submitted the amendment to Article 90, for which I have otherwise drawn the attention of the Minister that he is completely unconstitutional, because he is deeply in the independence of the judge, above all in the institution of the immunity of the judge, which is why I have submitted this amendment, seeing that this article will remain in this form. Efforts to discipline judges, i.e. that this reform carries out the lustration of judges, this article shows that they will indeed be carried out to the end. This article will allow judges, dignitaries, as we expect them to be in society, to get judges of apparatus. The explanation I received said that judges could otherwise not be members of political parties. I'll give you a comment from the judges who are not - and what if the judges do become members of political parties, or what if they clearly show public affection for a political party? Nothing's happening, because it's not meant for this law. That's what the judges are looking for right now. Because most judges still demand to be somewhat distant from politics, aware in their working and living practice that tortures, terrors, pressures of politics, the ones we all live in are very often exposed. We all know how much the judiciary has been abused and we all know how much politics is the source of corruption. So I think adding this piece to this amendment in Article 90 would be significantly corrected at least by this Article 90, which we've already disciplined, which I'm really rebelling against as a man. I hope by this law and all these laws of justice, because it has really joined one radical reform of the judiciary, we won't do anything worse than we had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8335	Anyone else want a word? Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8336	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group can indeed support this amendment, which was submitted by counterpart Zlata Djeric of the New Serbia parliamentary group, because it indicates that it is necessary to integrate into Article 90 of the law something that you deliberately and consciously avoided, and because of the fact that we would then have to open up the issue of judges' membership in the DS, first of all, G17 and other parties and to stamp you sharply. And if you would accept it, and if you had thought in a proper way about its amendment, if she wanted to let you know that the judiciary must be, or the judiciary, out of every political influence, you would, however, and after eight years of torture in courts across Serbia by individuals, not everyone, I would agree with what the President of the Assembly said, but who knows how many times Verica Radeta, the MP of the SRS from the pay phone, said they were honest and honest people. But what about that percentage and how do we determine which percentage is and who are these people? Mostly yellow, from a yellow company, placed on the most judicial functions in the country. Should I repeat to you the case of the current current current Minister of Ciplic, who was judge of the Constitutional Court, a member of the General Board, or as you are called - Executive, New Sad, Vojvodina, DS. Would you like me to open it again, and I'd like to open it for a little while and 15 minutes, the file of Dragisa Slepčević. You chose Dragju Slepčević as Judge of the Constitutional Court three months ago. At the departure of Dusan Petrovic, deputy president of the DS, you are still in Boris Tadic's cabinet, if it hadn't been for such a negative otter, primarily the judicial public and us MPs of the SRS, he would have been president of the Serbian Constitutional Court. Worst of all, we don't have a day-to-day, we have an alleged constitution, with those two-thirds, the Constitutional Court of Serbia, but the question is, right now, that we want to launch certain proceedings and performances before the Constitutional Court, who would make those decisions and whether the court would again be in a stalemate position, as it was during Slobodan Vučetic, who was a member and expert in the G17, who did what he wanted. And today, he gives us political lectures, thus affecting relations in the judiciary and directly interferes with certain decisions, and when it comes to the parliamentary mandates that you have taken from the DS Serbian Radical Party, in the first days of the appearance on the state diary, it was Slobodan Vučetic, former President of the Constitutional Court and member of the G17, who gave his interpretations, and how it is possible, and what will be. And Ciplic held back and went one step further, now as a former member of the DS and as former judge of the Constitutional Court, and when, therefore, it is written in his CV in the election of the minister, does not hide the belongings of the political party, he tells us what the Rules of Procedure should look like, that MPs should be lustrated, and that for abuse, it is Ciplic's idea, members of 225 and 226, which we are looking for answers to various questions, such as before, Mr Radulovic, we can be deprived of our parliamentary functions in the elections which are probably democratically held and the people directly expressed their will. Are you telling me that it was not necessary to accept the amendment of my colleague Djeric because you think that Miroljub Tomic, President of the Kragujevac District Court, has no direct link with you from the legislative and executive authority. Of course there is. You're all protecting him. You know that the criminal, you know he direct orders the judges, like these six, that is, these six who have taken, from the two councils, the decision to withdraw the SRS mandate. Where are you going to make a bigger fuss for the Serbian judiciary? We reminded you a few days ago how rigorous we are, how hard we are, as the only parliamentary party who wants to respect the independence of all three branches of government, as we have settled in our ranks. Mr. Petar Jojic told you that famous case of Rada Trajkovic and her arrival in his cabinet, when he was deputy minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and demanded that some of her brother from her aunt or uncle, I don't know, be appointed President of the Municipal Court in Nis. At the same time, within our party, we have launched a procedure, first to resolve it from the minister's post, and then we have warned every Serbian radical, in any part of Serbia, if something like that comes to mind - please in the interest groups, turn around, do whatever you want, we don't need such people in our party. That's what you want with your adventure. They're always going on multiple functions. Here, Tomic. He went to the High Council of the Judiciary the moment you established him. And here he is, you've seen, after so many decisions of all the district courts, every day we go out and we're telling you, so there's not one district court in Serbia, except for the Kragujevac, which he presides, that he has knowingly gone to the violation of the Constitution and the law and the kidnapping of the mandate of the SRS. Now you have to convince me, or any citizen of Serbia, that you want them to be people who, by these disciplinary measures and sanctions, will answer for these codes. Who's setting up this ethical code? Who respects him at all? A moment ago, a colleague of Ragush told you about what it should look like, namely, she asked to delete attitude 2, not because she didn't think that all those provisions should be respected when considering who the jury was, but it was a clear excess in the law, because we were all equal in the word of the Constitution - before the Constitution and the law. If we all have, as full-time citizens, and I guess you've gone analogly to the Constitution of that, if a full-time citizen has an election right, then he has the right to be elected to all functions. Then what did you need to put these conditions for a jury judge in the position of 2nd Article 81? Judge juror should also be a certain age, half, and enjoy, it reminds me of that time of communist self-government, a reputation in the social community, whether it didn't go red, or didn't get used to the neighbor, that I wasn't banalizing, but you also broke that member of the law. So you're saying here -- ethical codes are being established, so if the judges break them, you've established some ethical codes for the conduct of the MPs, then ministers in the government, so who respects it? You say, "I," because you're the mascot of the Parliament, so now you want everyone to act like you. The mascot is one. You will remain recorded in the annals of this parliamentary work and the previous one. But I'm seriously talking about what the lasting values of a society are and what a judge really needs to look like, what a jury is supposed to look like. You know what a judge means in one city. I live in a city where, an em criminal, who ordered this six to kidnap the mandates of the SRS, a man who beats the vote to behave in other codes of conduct, which comes out of the context of the debate, and especially members of the 104th Assembly's Rules of Procedure, is acting. We had such a similar case - in 2001 for the president of the municipal court, you remember probably, then as an associate in the then government, Mrs. Malovic, of the scandal, that he should have been elected to the Municipal Court of the Frogs by a man who is, in the right sense, the word of a psychopath. The case for Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic and so the case came to the board and how did all these performances come? It's too earthquakeous and it's too tragic for this family that, as such, of course, because of such a person no longer exists. Fortunately for all the other healthy parts of the family, if there were no such pressure and not 10 or 20 times Professor Vojislav Seselj reported from the pay phone and warned that it would be the biggest scandal if such a man were elected, we somehow managed not to elect him as the president of the district court. After five or six days, at the proposal of Boška Ristić and DS, first for the Judge of the Municipality Court in Surdulica, and later for V.D. The President of the Municipality Court in Surdulica, some of the D.A.'s offices, not that he can't pass this test for a jury judge, that he enjoys his reputation in the social environment, that people recognize him as such, but some criminal who was the director of the failed rubber industry, ruined the company and you chose him as acting as acting officer, and later as president of the Municipality's court in Surdulica. Now you have Tomic in Kragujevac, you see what a scandal is, the Kragujevac municipal and county court are on the top of the list of these unsolved cases. And we live in this town where, I guess, by the end of the 19th century, the intensity of the citizens of Kragujevac and all the people at the beginning of the modern constitutional and democratic order in Serbia was that these values were respected and respected. Today and in Šumadia, in all parts of Serbia, people have respect, above all for the priestly face, and then according to the teacher, according to the doctor, if there is one in that village, that's how they treat one another, and the hosts look at it, and the judge, you know what it is, it's power for him and he sees that person. You have members of your yellow company's political party, G17 and these some of your other attachments at the judges' places, and therefore you did not want to accept Mrs. Zlata Djeric's amendment. It is no problem, although you have now made this law, Mrs Malovic, to move that the Serbian Parliament can dispute and to talk about everything that these candidates are for individual judicial functions, be sure that, regardless of what the other authority is going to do now, which we will talk about both tomorrow and the next days, we will use every opportunity to stamp each candidate for whom we receive the information that is proposed and chosen by the High Council of the Judiciary on those functions. I have to remind you that during the last election, and we haven't had it in a long time, I think it was the beginning of November last year, Mr Krasic had to question 112 names from various parts of Serbia, but not because he was reading it by heart, but you see a concrete case of this dynasty, or already the monarchy in Prokuplje, and this text message read by a colleague of Radet today. All connected and all involved, and they make a destiny for anyone who seeks protection from the court in Prokuplje. We will fight hard against every kind of abuse, political pressure and influence, and we know that now the dictatorship and dictatorship of Boris Tadic is in place, because all these candidates for the Constitutional Court judges he has proposed are in office and members of the DS, for the most part, so are the seats of the president of municipal and county courts in Serbia. We will vote, when it is Voting Day, for the amendment of my colleague Zlata Djeric, because it is the only way to show who is who in Serbia and that, we who are struggling hard against every kind of dictatorship, continue to fight for the rights of citizens who cannot achieve because of the direct influence of individual judges, and here is the end of the electoral will, as was the case in Kragujevac under the stick of Tomislav Nikolic and Miroljub Tomic, president of the Kragujeva County Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8337	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to Article 99 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 99th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does Mr. Mijaljević want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8338	Dear colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to delete the words "until 31 December 2009" in Articles 99, 1 and 2. The government's argument is - the amendment is not accepted for the reason it is a transitional solution that is necessary to ensure continuity in the performance of the judicial work, as well as to know the exact time limit in which the execution of the judicial post under the old law ceases. To me, this explanation seems a little funny, contradictory, and I can't believe that someone in the government is sitting around giving this kind of explanation. What's this about? We are absolutely against this law being an excuse for what your absolute government is trying to do in the state of Serbia and trying to put under the control of the judiciary, as well as many other institutions. We had a week or two ago one failed attempt even the patriarch to impose. Use this law as an excuse to discipline judges. The discipline phase will last for the next year. Many judges will suffer psychologically in the next year, and who knows which other tortures, to be on that list on December 31st and to continue their work. The explanation says - the exact deadline in which the performance of the judicial office of the old law ceases. What's that supposed to mean? Some man's been working for 20 years, he's got 20 years left to do his job, and you've passed the law by which he goes to the judiciary. During the mirage, we had a cut of the princes, and during this DOS-manley government, we have a cut of judges, although Article 146 says, the judge's function is permanent. Then, in Article 149, any influence on a judge in the exercise of his office is prohibited. Yet you have found several views in several members of the Constitution to find an excuse to be carried out, through this law of yours, precisely the impact on judges, and not in a shorter period, but just to impose one discipline over the next year and that you, who are similar, become absolutely obedient, and all others, who do not meet your criteria, are removed from the judiciary. We are for judges to be judged, we are for them to have to deal with what they're doing, but not like this, through this cut, through some new lustration, but through certain criteria of what they've done so far. Every one of those judges who tried justly under the law, who didn't have objects that lasted for several years or even a few decades, as far as we can see, these judges can continue to judge, and those who pulled objects, who had large objects, whose cases or judgments lasted seven, eight, ten, fifteen, twenty years, they absolutely don't deserve to be in the judiciary. Through this discipline and lustration in the judiciary, you will do exactly that the judges, who are subject to your influence and to certain tycoons, are just going to stay working in the judiciary, which will be a dark time, perhaps even some medieval Serbian judiciary. We've had cases just the last two or three months in that court practice that one judge one another, the other judge the other. We have precisely that some political tycoons, even in the business of tycoons, sit on some cafes, pick on the phone judges, invite them overnight, do certain influences and ask these same people to judge how their blurred minds, minds with altered state of mind, want to reverse a certain political will in the country of Serbia, and for the whole two months. Two months of scary torture, and it's torture over judges looking for the like, and you're doing nothing to protect them, you're still announcing to them through this debate, which takes weeks and more days, that the pressure will be even higher and even stronger by December 31st next year. What you do and what you produce by this law will be a disgrace to all of us, to those who fight for less shame, but to some indelible you who have absolute authority right now. It will be a great shame, however, that we feel as shame you obviously do not experience it, there is neither fear nor shame, you push it further as the old one. While some answers are constantly coming from the EU, some reports and demands to improve the situation in the judiciary, to make a stronger impact on corruption, you are creating such an environment in the country of Serbia, where just those with thicker wallets or little more familiarity in the government will continue to do what they have done in the previous two months or what they have been doing for eight years. I suggest you accept this amendment of mine and avoid this disgrace, cutting down judges in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8339	Mr. Zivanovic, as amended, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8340	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, in order to establish a proper diagnosis of today's situation in the judiciary and the judiciary, it is necessary to take due account of the situation in Serbia today. If we look and see, I've focused on several of those significant points that I can say, which is politicizing the judiciary. I remember in 2001 when the minister of justice was Mr Batic, when no judge could be the judge of whether the municipal or district court was a member of the Democratic Party. Thus, the trend continued later in Serbia. As the ministers changed, judges are likely to have changed according to political likeness as well. We also have to say that the judiciary is corrupt. Surely it's corrupt, there are honorable and congratulatory judges, but I said, it's most expressed in the privatisation process. When many companies are bought, you know how, suspiciously, via the Privatisation Agency and through certain tycoons that bought these companies. Workers normally complained through a public prosecutor and filed criminal charges against both the Privatisation Agency and the new owner, who did not actually respect contractual obligations. What's going on? It happened that the process lasted a year, two, three, and, when many workers died or many found other existence, they eventually anchored the criminal application and the owner kept coming to his cake. I'm sure I can say there's a lot of such examples in the Sabbath community. I've spoken many times behind this pay phone where this store has done a lot of crime, and I have to tell you, unfortunately, I've also asked a parliamentary question, where I'm responsible that all the privatisation has been done honestly and honestly, and I know by paper, by paperwork, by court decisions, that this has not been done. And as it was done, we know well how there was the abduction of a large factory called "Mepritastika", when former Chamber of Commerce President Radoslav Veseinovic broke in with his jackals, with socks on his head, and took that factory, or he took it from the workers. The judiciary is ineffective. You're saying that you will, that this judiciary would now function, that you would put them into cubes in these larger centres in larger municipalities, or that there would be a reduction, as I could usually hear from some of your MPs where there was a particular efficiency of the judiciary. That's especially the number of cases solved, which is not true at all. I have to say that a large number of pending cases usually happen in large centres, here in Belgrade, even in larger municipalities, while in smaller municipalities these cases are being resolved and we should be satisfied if we have fewer criminal cases in these courts, or that these cases are being solved. We have courts that are addictive. You'll say how. So because the municipal court usually takes a certain verdict, a certain person complains, and this comes to the district court, the district court returns to the re-examination and he suggests that the municipal court should make that decision. You now see that usually a smaller institution must be under the authority of a large institution. What we must conclude is, ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen these two or three days, a great fight has begun by this legislative authority, the assembly government against the executive government. It has slowly yielded fruit, and in your pre-election campaign, you dosmania, dosovci or DS, however you will, or the yellow enterprise, you promised Serbian citizens a fight against corruption and crime. And you saw, the first political party to start dealing with corruption and crime is the SRS, which has revealed crime in many public enterprises, not only here at the institution at the level of the Republic, but I must tell you that this crime is also present at the municipal local level. There are no audit houses, when we asked as an opposition to carry out a budget inspection, we couldn't get it, apparently, because it's expensive, but it's not as expensive as it's abused. You yourself have seen for these eight-year reigns of yours that the mafia has entered all the pores of being your work and your life. If we look, not to mention, this bankruptcy mob, and the travel mafia, and the white mafia, and the mafia at law school, where I have to tell you that there's been a major crime, it's something that's not even remembered in any world or European country. I must say this, too, that the first reform when you came to power in 2001 was a reform in the judiciary. Salaries were raised by judges, under the pretext that they had high wages so as not to abuse their position, allegedly to make these judgments fair and fair. But I must tell you honestly, honor of exceptions, when you look at it, many judges are poor, but when you enter their capital, or what they possess, you will see that they own several apartments. It's actually one big connection between the judiciary and the construction mafia, because you know for a fact that the construction mafia is the most present today and the biggest crime is committed right in Serbia. When there was an increase in the salary of judges, there was no increase in salary for officials, those people without whom judges could not work. You've seen, many of you probably don't remember, but in 2001, 2002, there were major strikes of officials, where they got along, and then the minister of justice agreed that they would raise their salaries, but they didn't increase them until today, and if they were increased, it was something symbolic to satisfy them. So you can see that what you're presenting today is actually that judges should stick to the law as a drunken vessel, but I think these laws will destroy the judiciary and you'll bring even more to justice and abuse in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8341	The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Sreto Peric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by MP Branko Ruzic to article 99 does not comply with the amendment submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljević, and therefore the SRS considers the amendment unacceptable. I have to tell you, from this set of law in the field of justice, there are seven, the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors and Article 99. The law on judges is disastrous by the judicial system or by the judiciary in Serbia. National MP Sladjan Mijaljević has proposed that the provisions of Article 99(1) and (2) delete the words "until 31 December 2009" and that judges elected under the laws in force so far will be held in office until 31 December 2009, and judges in municipal authorities for violations and judges in the council for violations will also perform their post by 31 December 2009. How is the amendment submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljević and MP Branko Ruzic different? This amendment extends the deadline from 31 December 2009 to 31 March 2010. From what is logical for an explanation to accept this amendment, it remains for another three months to exert great influence and pressure on the already existing judges. I suspect that the presidents of the municipal committees, but to say all political parties, will use this time to exert great influence on both the judges and the presidents of the municipal bar, if not the county and even some courts with more jurisdiction than that. We therefore believe that this amendment to Sladjan Myaljević should be accepted, but he defends, the amendment of Sladjan Myaljević also defends the constitutional provision, where it is said that the judicial function is permanent - exceptional, people who first choose for judges are elected for three years. So SRS MPs also took care of constitutional provisions, and all together, it is not there, Cedo Jovanovic, the others agreed to this constitution. I think this law should be respected. Gentlemen of the Ministry, I am surprised by the government's selective attitude towards the amendments of the applicants, according to the MPs. The amendment of Sladjana Mijaljević is not accepted, Ms. Marine Ragush's amendment is not accepted, which considered that Article 81's provisions should delete the position of 2 which says - when appointed, refer to judges of jurors, take into account the gender, age, interest and social position of candidates, knowledge, expertise, tendency to certain types of judicial matters. All of what is stated in the position of the 2nd member is extremely acceptable when you say that gender is taken care of, so we in the SRS think that women should have much more participation than they have at this point in sports, political, party, executive and all other functions. We're trying to get through our program and realize it, but this provision isn't gonna come back to life yet, and it hasn't come back to life. There is an interesting amendment that the government has accepted, which refers to Article 82, where counterpart Zoran Bortic, who was very valuable in the matter of writing amendments to the law in the field of justice and seems to have submitted about a dozen amendments, of course some have been accepted and some have not, but look here at a relation of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs. A colleague, Zoran Bortic, suggested that judges should not be elected by persons who are not under 70 years of age, so up to 69. It is not a problem that fellow Bortic suggested it, his position is such, but the government accepts the amendment. I spoke to an esteemed colleague, a well-known legal scientist before the amendment's interpretation, and he says that some vital and very significant functions are lost, and we in the government have a vice president who is well over 70 years old. I don't think that's at all controversial, but we also have MPs who are over 70 years old, and that's quite right for me. But the government can't, imagine what hypocrisy it is that a jury can't be a jury judge if he's over 69 years old, and a Deputy Prime Minister or a MP can be even though he's over 70 years old. Let's not lie, let's not cheat on our citizens, which is more responsible, Deputy Prime Minister, where, by the way, is it said to take care of a million and 600,000 pensioners, or a jury judge, who will be called by the court administration or the president in a particular matter occasionally? In this way, we eliminate extremely good judges who have retired at 65 or 67 years of age and can make an extremely good professional contribution to decision-making, especially critical things where it is decided in the council. But, well, the government has decided that people over 69 years of life can't be jury judges. Isn't that cynicism? It seems to me that of those who were on the PAPS list for election for MPs, except for one who is now the deputy mayor, they were all over 70 years old and that's our pride. We want to extend the age of our nation and do everything possible to do so, but the government really treats its citizens in a shameful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8343	National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 100th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it could be freely said that they are members of 99th and 100th. The proposal for this law is, in fact, the essence of what government representatives call judicial reform, and we in the SRS say it is a serious announcement of lustration in courts and prosecutors. Before I say a few sentences concerning the amendment of my colleague Zoran Krasic, I am obliged primarily for the public and, of course, the MPs and representatives of the government, especially the Society of Judges who criticised the work of this Parliament, or MPs, above all, because we called some judges by name and last name. Of course, we will always and never have any problem with that, whenever we are sure that someone is not working in accordance with the law, that it does not work in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, in the interest of the Serbian state, whoever it is, whatever it is he called and whatever business he is doing, will be the subject of the debate of the SRS MPs, not only in this parliament but everywhere, at every public appearance. On behalf of the Miladin Kovacevic family, I am obliged to hear from his mother earlier as my colleague Sreto Peric here spoke, a woman panicking, of course terrified, called, asked me to inform the public, so that Serbia's public would protect her son. Namely, Miladin Kovacevic has been extended to another 30 days. The explanation is whether or not you believe it or not, so you don't get out of the country. A young man, who was assigned to a red international arrest warrant, will be held in custody for another month so as not to flee the country, and where he would flee - bears to a hole, I guess. How can a court council of yours come up with this kind of nonsense? Why don't they say what apparently seems to be true, that Miladin Kovacevic is a hostage, that someone has made a promise somewhere and that apparently his parents are rightly afraid that his extradition to the United States might happen in the meantime? Imagine the nonsens that they called his parents to testify, people didn't answer that call, because nowhere in the white world did parents have to testify in any judicial system when it came to their children and then the president called on the home phone, scolded Miladin Kovacevic's mother in ugly words and said that she and her husband had to come tomorrow to testify in their son's case. We have often talked here about the tribunalisation of the Serbian judiciary, the prosecution, the special war crimes prosecutor's office, especially, but apparently that part of Serbia's judiciary has actually become a detention unit of the US judiciary. That's what I wanted to say, first of all, for the public. I would like this, however angry the representatives of the Society of Judges, to reach out to those judges who participated in this council that extended the detention of Miladin Kovacevic and to suspend that detention by appeal. A colleague, Zoran Krasic, submitted the amendment and asked to be a member of 100. The draft law on judges is deleted. Article 100, like that article 99, which was explained here by our colleague Sladjan Mijaljević, speaks in fact about what the intention is, as I said, of this law. The intention is lustration, because the termination of the duties and rights of judges elected or appointed by earlier laws is the subject of Article 101, and the choice of judges is the subject of Article 100. The decision on the number of judges and judges of the jury shall be taken by the High Council, as stated in Article 100, in accordance with this law within 30 days of the date of election of the first call, etc. The election of judges, in accordance with this law, will take place no later than 1 December 2009. Judges elected under this law shall take office on 1 January 2010. Not to waste time reading this whole article, so the bottom line is that we asked for this member to be deleted because this member is very dangerous for everyone in the judiciary, I mean judges and public prosecutors. Then we could go back, as it were, to Article 59, and the fact that you did not accept that these two positions are deleted, where, at the request of the President of the Court, it is said that the completion of the working century, the High Council of the Judges can extend the working age for another two years, with its consent, etc. Do you not leave a reservation for some judges that you plan to still need in those judicial functions and that you will leave them there, of course, in order to comply with the law, then pass laws that do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The government says it does not accept the amendment of Zoran Krasic, since it proposes to delete solutions that have the character of a transitional provision that prescribes deadlines for selecting judges under the new law, which is otherwise in accordance with the constitutional law's rules for the implementation of the Constitution, Article 7. The law. Madam Minister and fellow MPs, when we are at the Constitutional Law and so strict apply on your part, but of course you are wrong about this argument, because the Constitutional Law does not oblige us to do what you plan, but whether someone will eventually respond or advance, from the President of the Assembly to be Minister in Government, because we are still in a state of unconstitutional state, because it is not yet in accordance with the law on the implementation of the Constitution, because we have not passed these laws within the time limit provided for in Article 5(2). Laws to enforce the Constitution. Will anyone ever ask Oliver Dulic why he didn't put it on the agenda? Will anyone ever ask Oliver Dulic why we haven't had a choice in two years or a judge's resolution? Will anyone ever ask Bosko Ristic how it happened that the President of the Nis Court is going to be a retired woman? So there are many questions that we have tried to get an answer on speaking about these amendments, and of course we will go through the following amendments, but somehow you from the ruling majority and you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia think these radicals are talking, they will go through it, but we will do it our way. But it's not like that. You've seen it on the Bojan Krishte case, and we think it'd be better if you listened a little bit in time to what the MPs tell you. Why are you wrong, Madam Minister, or Government when it says that the amendment of Zoran Krasic cannot be accepted, because it would not be in accordance with the Constitution? Well, nowhere in the Constitution is it said that the transitional provisions should say that all judges will be expelled, literally, from the courts so that you can choose those who suit you again. You are here predicting a new organisation within the justice system and then, in these transitional and final provisions, it should have been nice to stand, I don't know, cases that have been recorded in municipal courts so far now go to basic courts, etc. So, reform is not done in a way that lutes judges, it's said that this is how you imagined it. We think that this is a very bad way of reforming at all, but we've talked about it, and we'll talk about when we're on these other laws, and of course this is not in line with the SRS's views, but if you're passing this law, you can't go into the Constitution and the Constitutional Law to seek justification for lustration because there's no such thing. Therefore, in the final provisions you should have talked about the cases, the case groups, the areas, the level of the penalty threatened, the amount of the case, etc. There were a lot of ways to do this, to apply these laws that are, I say, bad, but you couldn't possibly do it this way and what you're planning to do is unconstitutional. Here's a message for the Society of Judges, who attacked the MPs of the SRS. We have spoken in the course of the debate, in principle and in particular that we accidentally agree in some elements with the Society of Judges, but we are otherwise opposed to the existence of such organisations, these some professional associations, which go in the white world to "school" there, but they are right when they say that what you are planning is lustration and that it is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if I remembered what they said, if we're making fun of the judge whose names we're talking about here, of course we can't accept it. We may have offended Bojan Krishte, too, for we also mentioned his name. So, if someone performs the honorary office of a judge or a public prosecutor, it does not mean that there must be no topic of debate in this House. We Serbian radicals represent the position, I will repeat it once again, that most judges and most of the public prosecutors are honest and moral people, that they are experts, that they care about the application of the law, but unfortunately there is also a small number of those that should be taken into account. We fear that it will be you who will remain in the courts, and honest and honest that they will not be able to come to terms, as they have largely failed to come to terms. Probably invited by the debate, since citizens are really showing up at our party and at our Parliament club these days, we also got up at the Sokobanja Parliament Club some data, and I don't think this is an insult. Just as information, I assume it's true, if Mrs. Mirjana Milivojevic reported this and said it was no problem to mention her name. She says that in the Sokoban court, the judge is Mr. Slobodan Miletic, and his son Sasa Miletic is a lawyer. This isn't a unique case. I apologize for the weather. This would be reform. Can I arrange in such a small court so small that the father is a judge and the son is a lawyer? Can we talk about objectivity here? Maybe these people are the best in the world. Nothing personal, but I'm making an example. The second example is also from Soccombat. Snow White Milicevic is a judge, and her husband Ljubisa is a judicial expert and a bankruptcy manager. This can't really happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8345	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Donka Banovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8346	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, which says - that the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican organisations and bodies. Today, several DSS MPs have asked for a notice and an answer to the question - why has the Assembly not received a draft budget for 2009 so far? It is one of the most important laws that can be reached in the assembly procedure during the year, so all MPs expect the budget to be on time. A session of the government of the Republic of Serbia was held today. We were informed that there was no draft budget for 2009. It is not possible that the government of the Republic of Serbia has celebrated this victory today, as they call it, since last night, when a report by Ban Ki Moon was adopted at the UN Security Council. I remind you, it is a report that legalises, that is, the government of the Republic of Serbia legalizes and agrees with the deployment of Eulex. Eulex is the protégé of Martti Ahtisaari, part of Marty Ahtisaari's plan to build a strong and independent Kosovo. I'm afraid our government and all of us together have no reason to rejoice. I would say that we have reason to grieve, because this is the beginning of the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to build an independent Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8347	National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 100th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8348	Ladies and gentlemen of the Serbian Radicals, I don't mind the painting of Vojislav Seselj. We Serbian Progressives wish him well, as well as other Hague indictees. I signed up for Mr Tomislav Nikolic's amendment to article 100. I believe that this article and this amendment are very important, because the solution in that article is unacceptable, and here I fully agree with Mr Radicals. This article is an official lustration. This member of the justice minister is given discretionary rights and is given consent to determine the number of judges in fact. I would like to read, in my explanation -- the first meeting of the Supreme Council of the judiciary will determine the number of judges based on the previously obtained consent of the minister of justice. Then why, ladies and gentlemen, the High Council of the Judiciary, if the first call will be decided by the minister, if the minister will give consent? It's unnecessary to even pass these laws that treat the judiciary. This article gives the possibility of vetoing a decision, whether on the proposal of a number of members of the courts, giving the possibility of vetoing the decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. This article shall make it impossible to divide into judicial, legislative and executive power. The independence of the judiciary is also at stake. This is a very bad solution, a solution that is worse than what we've had so far, because so far, through some congregation debate, we have been able to discuss which judges are elected, how many judges we have in the courts. In this way, the executive power took over the right to determine both the number of courts and the judge himself. This is a kind of totalitarianism of the executive government. This is a blow to democracy and to parliamentaryism. I believe that all of us, MPs and authorities and the opposition, should consider this amendment, that it is necessary to adopt this amendment. The High Council should decide on the number and composition of the courts. I guess that's the elemental thing you're up against with this law. To take the opportunity, while I'm at the pay phone, to support all those judges that radicals are calling these days, to tell them, in the name of the Serbian Progressive Party, that unlike radicals, we will not interfere in judicial power. It is a shame for us people's MPs, so it seems to me, Madam Chairman and for you, to allow judges to be called by name, to be insulted without any evidence, and it is necessary that all MPs, all MPs, stand up for the protection of judges throughout Serbia. I have an example from Jagodina, where for the second time, the District Court has taken down a solution to local self-government because local self-government does not know how to carry out an election and recall procedure in the local assembly. That's why this solution is being shot down and it's not a problem with judges, the problem is local self-government. And it's not their fault that local self-government cares more about giraffes and elephants than the lawyers of local self-government. What I'm saying is that it's about the elemental ignorance of Lord Radicals, I want to say that it's about living up to the judges of the District Court in Jagodina, calling them by name, threatening to re-election, gentlemen. Well, you'll be in the next election to fight for the censorship. Who's afraid of you, gentlemen radicals? Don't scare anyone that way, you won't make it. Speaking of which, I'd like to tell you that I completely agree with you that both judges and prosecutors should do their job. Finally, I hope that the Third Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, I think it is on Vračar municipality, to do something about the criminal charges against Dragan Todorovic, who has no less than falsified the signature of Vojislav Seselj himself. There'll be an opportunity to talk about it tomorrow. I'll get back to you on that, of course. There'll be a chance and I'll give you proof. A month ago, we filed that lawsuit, a criminal charges against Dragan Todorovic, but it is obvious, Mr. Democrats, that you are protecting Mr. Radicals. If this lawsuit were to be prosecuted, all these solutions to the collapse of parliamentary mandates would fall into the water. The elemental question is also asked, gentlemen of the radicals, why does Vojislav Seselj not give support, not give authority to Dragan Todorovic? You went to The Hague several times. Why is this signature a fake? The graphologists have already found that it's a child forgery, I can tell you, it's visible to every amateur and the question is what's behind all this. I would say that, above all, there is money, 15 million dinars lying on the jury account of the Serbian Radical Party every month, 200,000 euros, if I count it well, a bunch of employees of friends, relatives, Krauts. There are more employees in the magistrate's office than cockroaches, and you don't give a penny to a local, on your activists, but that's why you easily hire your relatives and make that money. The question is, what powers do you have to use these funds? Therefore, gentlemen of the Radicals, while you're talking about honesty, go a little bit apart, prove that what I said from this pay phone, that this is not a falsified signature by Vojislav Seselj and answer behind whom Vojislav Seselj stands from the Serbian Radical Party. You continue with the coup that you started the moment you literally kicked out of the party, without allowing an extraordinary assembly, threw out Tomislav Nikolic and the rest of us MPs. You should not have gone to an extraordinary congregation because you would have lost. Many of you who today call themselves officials would possibly be porters in the Serbian Radical Party. The truth is, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, that much rating you have in membership is best shown by the number of committees who have moved to the side of Tomislav Nikolic. I'm really sorry, but it's inadmissible, and I said this, first of all, because of the judges you insult, you disrespect, you act very primitively, extremely rudely. That's why we're not with you today and thank you in some way, I've been lucky enough, thank God, and smart enough not to sit with you today and not hit the benches. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS were hitting on the tables. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8349	Gentlemen, a large number of MPs have appeared in the Rules of Procedure. First Mrs Pop-Lazic, then Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8350	Dear Madam Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I must indeed, although reluctantly, remind the Madam Chairman of some of the obligations set out in Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and I said that I would always do so when such individuals, like this one was, come for this pay phone, because I don't think there's any legality or legitimacy to show up here. But since he said all sorts of vomits, which I really have no intention of answering, because it simply doesn't allow me, although he started with words that might sound very populist, that he wanted all the best for all the Hague indictees, he ended up here accusing Vojislav Seselj, that, with his permission or without permission, someone here was falsifying him in Belgrade. So, such hatred for the man who is in The Hague and who is fighting in his own way not only for his procedural rights there, but for justice and justice and for the defence of Serbian national interests, simply can't go a day without mentioning him in any light, trying to induce something that can cause him any damage in the tribunal. He's got enough of that pain he's got with those judges, with the D.A.'s office. I don't need this man, who isn't even worth a handful of corn, to add to his torment. I think you're aware of how much you're worth, so I'm guessing you're going to figure out what kind of ratings he's got, like me or Tomislav Nikolic, so you're going to go that way. That's funny, you know, if you don't have your integrity, if you don't have your beliefs and beliefs, and when you're alone, you have to move on. If Vojislav Seselj had not believed in what he was doing in the 1990s, he would not have received 73 parliamentary seats in the next election. That's the difference between you and that political newly created party and us Serbian radicals who believe in what we're doing. So you have to believe deeply in the idea, but in order to believe, you have to have an idea, you have to have ideology, you have to have a desire to present it to the people, to take that people back. Unfortunately, you're so empty, maybe wearing makeup, well-dressed, maybe seduce some people, but believe me, it's going to be very short, the bunnies aren't wearing them on their heads long ago. So that's not even what you're into. Unfortunately, what do I do? But I want to tell you that we can't fight you because we have a lot of problems, here's against crime and corruption for a few days we've been trying to distract the public that it's necessary to fight a major fight. (President: Time. Here, I'm done. In addition, the severe economic crisis that burdens us and is just waiting for us to be overindebted by the state is all the problems we need to deal with. Let everyone lead their policies, let them introduce themselves to voters when in some elections, which will certainly be today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in six months, a year, four years, I don't know how, today Vukic says they will be in March, I guess he agreed with Boris Tadic, I don't know who he's agreeing with, either with an English or an American ambassador. Someone knows something we don't know here in Parliament. Then, when they get a number of votes and come to this parliament, they can come out for this pay phone to tell us what they want. (President: Time, Mrs. Pop-Lazic) We will be right again, if there is, come and answer, and if we are not there, we will tell the people thank you, we will look for a new opportunity. Surely the people will punish us a little for keeping us close to each other like this. You know what, it's hard to fight a friend. Against the enemy, you can do it yourself. You know who they are and you know what they are. When someone is your friend, it's much harder. You need one of those to keep you safe. We've missed that opportunity, we've believed a lot, and we'll probably get it back in some way, but we'll try to show it very transparently to the citizens of Serbia. (President: Time, Mrs. Pop-Lazic) Batinashi, we can't possibly be. Read the headlines in the paper, and then you'll believe what they're saying. If I look like someone who's beaten, who can beat Alexander Vukic, if we're Serbian radicals, then you should condemn us, then we shouldn't be anywhere. But the papers aren't the ones that will tell you the truth about the SRS and everything that's going on on the political scene. The only truth you can find out here on channel two of RTS can be found out when MPs are not only SRS, but everyone else comes out and takes part in the debate. Then you can judge us, who thinks, who does what and who is worth it. Excuse me, please, for taking so much time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8351	Mr. Paja Momchilov, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency and the Chairman, I have reported on the amendment to Article 100, which was submitted by the quasi-national MP and by the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who explained here a quasi-national MP, who allowed himself to take advantage of this opportunity to turn out, in addition, funny. Of course, we Serbian radicals don't think at all to enter into such a level of debate, taken by this gentleman. There's been a series of illogicalities, but I'll go after the amendment. The MPs of the SRS have tabled an amendment to Mr Krasic, which is well explained by Ms Verica Radeta. We have made it clear that we are seeking to delete an entire member because the re-election provisions, the general choice of judges, in our opinion, are contrary to our Constitution and we do not agree that in one such way, the lustration of our judges is introduced. That is clear why we feel that this article should be deleted and we remain on it. When someone comes out and says, "I agree with radicals," they first declare themselves a radical, and then a man doesn't know what to say next. That's why he says he accepts the attitude of the radicals. Then he can't accept it in a piece, as he offered here one of his little pieces to accept it. It's, in any case, a little funny for me -- to accept the attitude of a radical, and then you go to a minimalistic part of it, which you yourself stand for. Well, good. Why are we trying to delete this member? It is precisely because we believe that the current legal rules and that the constitution are not sufficiently respected in this country. I'll start with one particular example. I'm a member of the Health Committee. We have received a memo these days, where students, teachers, unschooled workers of the Medical Academy "USA Medical School" address us with an appeal for assistance and protection of legality and all because of the disabling of our fundamental rights and freedoms, rights to learning, rights to work, rights to existence, academic rights and freedoms. This request and appeal has been signed by 149 students of this university, by their teachers. You've probably seen in the press what it's practically about. It's about 50 students in the fourth year of private college being on the street today and they can't practice, learn, they can go to wards where patients lie down to get the necessary knowledge. To make the situation even more interesting, you had that college license from the Ministry of Education, which is the only jurisdiction to issue such a permit. That college can work normally, then. But what's going on? The minister in the same government, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic, who is an angry opponent of the private medical college, is giving orders to two institutions that have signed legal contracts, which are KBC Zemun and KBC Dragisa Misovic, with this university, that they will accept 50 students that they can perform a practical part of the exercises, and these contracts have also been brought to our attention and they are fully valid and legally valid, the minister is now ordering these institutions to cancel these contracts. I'll just remind you of the expert opinion given by Prof. Dr. Vesna Rakic-Vodinlic on all of this. I will read only two views that matter to you who advocate a trip to Europe, who advocates the rule of law, to see that in the country there is one schizophrenic government, where one minister gives permission, and the other one contests it, that I cannot even agree on elementary things and have a unique position, then we have such precedents that point out this Mrs. Vesna Rakic-Vodinlic, she is one of the first fighters of this revolution that took place in 2000. She says, about this: the equal position of state and private higher education institutions stems from the very Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines the principle of equality of all forms of property, from state to private. The form of property, neither under the Constitution nor under the Law on Higher Education, can be the basis for the different legal positions of higher education institutions. The favouring of one another is discrimination in terms of the form of property, and discrimination is prohibited by the Constitution of Serbia, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as other international sources that Serbia has ratified. The prohibition of discrimination applies not only to legal persons but also to natural persons. When analysing the actions of the health ministers and others involved in this unholy operation, 50 young people prevent their qualifications and their existence, says point 8 of this -- it is particularly important to underline that two memos came from the minister of health of the Republic of Serbia, who is not authorized to break up contracts that have concluded third parties, or to order them to break up. A KBC was founded by the state of Serbia, and founding rights are exercised by the government of the Republic of Serbia, not by the minister. The second KBC founded the city of Belgrade, and founding rights are carried out by a city council member rather than a city council member. It is also the status of an educational institution within the competence of the Ministry of Education. So, to recap all this stuff I said. Is there any chance that someone in the government, here, is one of her representatives who probably has nothing to do with this, and is absolutely not guilty of this schizophrenic behavior of one of these, on strange principles, of a concluded government, which leads to situations like this, that someone responds to these young people, to protect their human rights, elemental, to education, to education in the country, which, we will agree, nevertheless, capitalist. And to prevent a communist health minister from doing what he's doing in this country. Will those people, and they can't practice, they're on the street. What's gonna happen? Normally, what's going to happen. If they're not allowed to practice in these facilities, they'll practice somewhere else. They may practice in Montenegro, they may practice in Republika Srpska. Who will pay the damages that will follow the trial. Serbia's citizens, taxpayers, will pay. Therefore, gentlemen of the government, consider yourselves. Don't make a mess in this country of Serbia, because even this set of laws, which you think are life-saving, will not help us if you continue to violate the current legal norms and regulations. More importantly, the norms of the civilized world and of Europe, in which you wish to go, but as you go, you will hardly arrive.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8353	Anyone else want a word? You've got two and a half minutes left. Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8354	Just a short replica, because of those decent radicals across Serbia, because of all Serbian citizens. So neither I nor the Serbian Progressive Party hate anyone, nor you. Gentlemen of the Radicals, citizens can judge very well who behaves in the Republic Assembly. Hate, despair, anger, it's seen on your faces. If they see it on my face, then I lie to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8355	Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Đura Muchenski. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 101st amendment was submitted by MP PetarJojic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the MPs of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 101, where I have suggested that this provision be deleted because it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this article, the Proposer proposes that the judges referred to in Articles 99 and 2 of this Law, who were not elected under this law, cease their duty on 31 December 2009. Judges under Article 1 shall be entitled to a six-month salary payment in the amount of the salary they had at the time of termination of the judge's duties. The right to compensation for the salary of Article 2 shall cease before the expiry of six months if the judge to whom the duty has ceased to establish a working relationship or is entitled to a pension, and may be extended for another six months if, in those six months, he has obtained the right to retire. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in its explanation, says the amendment is not accepted since the legal provision regulates the position of judges who are not elected under the new law, so it is a necessary transitional solution to regulate the status of these persons. In the opinion of the expert public, in the opinion of the SRS MPs, this is not acceptable. This is just putting MPs in a trap to be deceived in this way in order to accidentally vote for this member's proposal. This solution is unacceptable, and I want to explain it. There is no constitutional and legal basis for re-election of all judges, re-election of the current judges. The new Constitution, as so far in force, prescribes the principle of continuity of judicial function. Therefore, Article 146 of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia norms the continuity of the judicial function in paragraph 1: the judicial function is permanent. It's undeniable. The Constitution regulates this and no other law can dictate the provisions of the Constitution. Any suspension of existing courts or a significant part of their jurisdiction, as well as a change in the name of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia to the Supreme Cassation Court, do not constitute the basis for the termination of the judicial post in Article 150 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For the purposes of Article 150(2), in the case of the suspension of a court or a proposed act of jurisdiction of the court for which he has been elected, the judge may, without his consent, be permanently transferred or referred to another court in accordance with the law. The re-election of all judges, in our opinion, is the re-election of the current judges. That, above all, do not replace the thesis in selecting new judges, this is a clear re-election of the current judges, which many politicians have announced, and what has been passed in the bill. Without a legal basis for this, it is in direct contrast to the constitutional provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because in Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a normised principle of banning the return fact, i.e. retroactive validity, as provided for in Article 197. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, in Article 197. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is normised: "The feedback of the law and other general acts is prohibited". So again it's an obstacle to the Constitution and the Constitution can't be trampled, and no one can define the Constitution and put it outside the legal force of these provisions. The conduct of the proposed election of all judges would be a harsh violation of the Constitution. Thus, rather than a state based on the rule of law, the Republic of Serbia would become a state based on the rule of political will of individual political parties, in particular the will of the political party in power, i.e. Her coalition. The problems in the judiciary, including those relating to the expertise of the judges, their security and honesty, which undoubtedly exist, stem primarily from the weakness of the judicial system, and their resolution requires comprehensive changes and reform of the entire system, but entirely on other grounds. With regard to the High Council of the judiciary, it is necessary for members of the High Council to be elected from the judge's ranks, on the basis of a proposal from the judges themselves, and to ensure that judges and courts of all kinds and all degrees are represented. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this proposal, the judiciary has been bypassed. With this proposal, the Executive Authority shall assume the command. With this proposal, it will be so that the existing High Council for Justice declares itself competent to elect all judges and thus will not be in a position for members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary to be elected by the criteria that arise under the proposal for all judges in the Republic of Serbia. This High Council cannot allow the judiciary itself to choose, to set itself up, to avoid the procedure, because it does not wait and allow executive power to allow judges of all degree courts, from municipal to supreme, or future cassation, to propose themselves to their candidates in whom they will have confidence and who will be impartial, uninterested, who will resist any pressure, any intervention and any political pressures that have been recorded in the past. I'll just say one example. When I was the first deputy minister of justice of Serbia, and then the federal minister, one representative of a political party in 1999 came to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia when judges and prosecutors were elected. The man comes in and says, "I'm from that party and I'm from that party." Here's a proposal from the judge. What kind of proposal, I ask? He says here's the proposal. I said, let me see. I look at the political party's memo and a list of similar judges. I said, sir, have some coffee and you can go. Here you will not propose, nor will any political party, because I will not agree and I did not agree to the College of Ministers and I rejected it. I'm afraid again that we're going to get into a situation where we pick judges and make mistakes about how it was in the past. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, in addition to the fact that there is no constitutional basis for the choice or basis for the termination of the judicial office prescribed by law, such as are not defined or reliable, please be careful, accepted, comparable, meaning from other countries, criteria for selecting judges. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS considers and has its opinion - the judges will be free, and so will the performance of their duties in an impartial decision on cases in agreement with the assessment of all facts. And most importantly, here I am not just speaking for the public, I am speaking here to the honourable MPs, because everyone is interested in coming up with a well-organized and well-organized justice system. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am also addressing all the judges in the Republic of Serbia, even if it is here. You'll probably pass it on because you're going to the municipalities. Those judges who took part in the decision-making process when it comes to the Law on Local Elections, they are honorary judges - so we have no objections to them. Why, when people applied the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, 146, 147 and 149. What would we do? Look at you, there's a commitment that the SRS, there it is, has clashed with courts and judges. That's not true, there's no way to talk about it. We have shown this by contesting the re-election of judges, by contesting the provisions of the article. 99, 100 and 101, which in the transitional provisions are now intruding into highly sensitive matter and the existence of judges in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will not support this proposal in relation to the Law on Judges, and we will also not support the other laws governing and proposing to reform this judiciary in Serbia, because this does not lead to good reform. It must take a little more time, prepare, and thus Serbia finally has the right to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-27-0.u8357	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pavel Marchok. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 107th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic-Korac. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposing's representative, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the proposal for a law on judges in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Madam Minister, Mr. Homen, Mr. Cosic, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work tomorrow at 10:00.
