ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and my objection to which I wish to speak refer, first of all, to you, Madam President of the National Assembly, and then, of course, to the MPs of the Parliament's majority. I will remind, above all, that for the sake of the public, that we SRS MPs assessed our time when we broke Parliament's work, nothing caused the interruption, we were then convinced and we talked about it, which is why we applied to discuss your shift, that that was when you did it because you received information from Boris Tadic that Radovan Karadzic had already been arrested, which we learned from the media in the evening. Why do I remind you of this? Because we now again suspect that you and the assembly majority did not accept that in the National Assembly we were discussing a proposal from 108 MPs on a resolution related to Kosovo and Metohija, because you knew by then that Boris Tadic would do what he did yesterday, which is, in fact, in gloves, to announce that he is actually ready to accept the mission of EULEX in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Last night, we saw in the media and some MPs of the congregation said it was no problem for them, so I don't know, under some conditions. Since the motion for a resolution, which we wanted to continue and we insist that it be discussed and decided in Parliament, it is precisely insisting that the Eulex mission cannot be established, at least not with the consent of the National Assembly and other state bodies in Serbia, that it cannot be established in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija – you did not accept that request. We continue to insist, we are now even more insistent on it because we do not want Boris Tadic to surprise us. First, because he has no legal or constitutional basis to be able to conduct foreign policy in this way, neither does the Government of the Republic of Serbia without Parliament's decision, when it comes to such important matters for the state of Serbia and the citizens of the Serbian state. So, we insist that the motion for a resolution be put on the agenda and that this parliament, that we look ourselves in the eye and tell the citizens of Serbia what any of the MPs, or parliamentary groups, think about this EU violent act on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. We insist that the motion for a resolution of 108 MPs, which has been on the agenda since June... (President: Time. I'm done, thank you... in the congregation procedure. Let's see if you really think and if you're ready to break the Constitution or if you're just going to leave it to Boris Tadic and get down with your shoulders later and say, "It happened, what to do?" We must have this Parliament's position on this, and then, of course, we cannot answer forcefully, by force of the EU, by force of the United States. What depends on the National Assembly... (President: Mrs. Radeta, it's been four minutes. I'm really sorry, here, I'm done. What depends on the National Assembly must be discussed here and here to decide. I'm sorry, one more time, for the weather. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4379	As you know, the act you mention is in the procedure. It was on the agenda, but it was estimated that the points of urgency were to be discussed at this session, i.e. to be the subject of debate at this session, so that the act was in the procedure and I did not injure Article 27, i.e. I did the tasks provided for in the Constitution, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Law and the Constitution. The word has Mr. Zoran Krasic, first of all, so Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. You're after Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4380	I volunteered to point out that the proper provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are constantly being violated here. This applies first and foremost to the provision of Articles 27 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'll try to explain what's going on. We have witnessed one fact that the President of the Republic performs his function in a very strange way, which once addresses the public with positive qualifications and another with negative qualifications. It is recognizable that his goal is the same in both variants. He simply disabling the National Assembly, disabling the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the national interests of the Serbian people. Let me remind you, the National Assembly brought a resolution a few years ago. The resolution said Serbs should not go to elections for temporary authorities in Kosovo and Metohija. He didn't mind inviting Serbs to go to the polls the next day. Today we can conclude that there are many elements of criminal association in relation to official authorities or some individuals representing the Republic of Serbia compared to what is happening at KIM. We have Goran Bogdanovic, the first Serb to serve as minister in the Shiptar transitional government -- has now become minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia for KIM. As Secretary of State, we have a man who was both left and right and Kusner and all those who were occupiers at KIM. And now we have a president of the Republic who one day says, "It's possible to divide. "The second day he says, "under certain conditions. "So now he's trying to hide what I'm talking about daily and negotiating with the Eulex mission, first of all, by Boris Tadic, his cabinet and his assistants, who I'm going to skip this opportunity, and all this is done just because the proposal for a decision, the proposal for a resolution on KIM is not being put on the agenda of the National Assembly. Someone abuses naiveness, kindness and the fact that someone is trusted and that the National Assembly does not consider the issue as a place for illegal action and counter-constitutional action of Boris Tadic. (President: Time. ) That is why I think it is necessary for you to put this resolution on the agenda and not speak – that someone has evaluated it. These guys can't tell what that resolution is like.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4381	There is a word from the MP, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4382	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, first I must say that I am advertising Article 104. The rules of procedure are because I first appeared at the beginning of today's session, and the chairman keeps not seeing. All my colleagues around me have reacted, even from the ruling coalition, claiming to have seen me come forward, so I simply must say that you cannot apply the various arches to the MPs of one party and the MPs of the other party. The second thing, during the afternoon session of the DSS several times, asked for an explanation – what is happening to EULEX and the statements of our officials, above all, President Tadic? I have to remind the MPs today, who probably know what I'm talking about, before we get that information, today's news that Tanjug published, and is calling for Reuters, is a statement by the Prime Minister of Montenegro, Milo Djukanovic, who says -- that official Serbia has agreed with official Montenegro to recognise an independent Kosovo, or that Serbia's foreign minister, Jeremic, has asked Montenegro only to recognise independent Kosovo until the vote takes place in the UN. So the masks are going down. One at a time, each of our officials is revealed. Today's paper conveys a statement by Filip Vujanovic, who says he is satisfied with President Tadic's statement that the measure against Montenegro's ambassador is the last one Serbia will take towards Montenegro, following recognition of Kosovo's independence. And he calls it constructive politics?- I'm sorry. The country is not fully aware of who runs foreign policy, who assumes the role of prime minister, foreign minister, prime minister of the government. My question is, since right now, at this moment, I am calling for Article 225, and Article 226, I am asking for a notice – who has negotiated such a decision with whom? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4383	Thank you. I'd like to, Mrs. Markovic, just to say that at the same time it was raised more hands. To me, the others sitting in the presidency are helping us build that order. Mrs Radeta and Mr Krasic, who were before you, are on the same side as you, on my right, and I have the assurances of the vice president and secretary that they were before you. So, I really can't make order if it's raised more hands at the same time. Either way, you'll all get the word. He has the word Mr. Dejan Mirovic, the MP of the people, and then Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4384	Ladies and gentlemen, based on the article. 225th and 226th, I request a notice on the following: Mr Tadic has said in Novosti since 16 October 2008 that "we will not give up the EU for KIM". This is a slightly confusing statement. Also, EULEX chief Ivo de Kermabon said, in connection with the deployment of the Eulex mission, "I can confirm that there are talks between Belgrade, Brussels, in New York. These talks exchanged views with some people of goodwill, and therefore we are also negotiating with Serbia to find a way for the mission to be deployed throughout the KIM." They've been news since 15 October 2008. So, I'm asking for a notice – has there been a change in state policy towards KIM, more specifically, is this the reason for not adopting the KIM Assembly resolution? If so, please make it public. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4385	And strictly speaking, we're starting again with the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The fact that the public should be informed is not disputed, but it is also informed through the media, you are today only potentiating information. So we don't hear anything new today to the information the media published. The word is by Mr. Jovan Palalic, also advertised by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4386	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 225th and 226th, and I'm giving you a question. I have repeated that question many times after this speaker, and of course, now I want an answer, given that your answers to this question have been extremely general and indeterminate. When will the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, come to the National Assembly? Today, we have a statement that is serious and is seriously intruding into the state interests of the Republic of Serbia and is seriously rocking the confidence of Serbian citizens in institutions. The prime minister of Montenegro said -- that he had agreed with representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia on the recognition of KIM by the state of Montenegro. That's a statement from Reuters, and it was transmitted by our agencies, specifically "Tanjug". We have no answers to questions about the government policy of the Republic of Serbia towards KIM! We have no answers to where this government policy leads, unless the answer is what Milo Djukanovic gave – to agree with individual countries on the time of recognition of KIM, by the same, and to fund conflicts and to fix decisions and measures that apply to other countries! We have the fact that for four months this high house has not declared its policy towards KIM. We have a statement by the President of the Republic, for which EULEX is acceptable, and then the National Assembly has no opportunity to discuss the subject through the proposed resolution. I ask you, Madam President, to invite the Prime Minister to the National Assembly and all resolution ministers, to discuss these issues, which are now very difficult for citizens, to believe that citizens are quite confused with what appeared today as a statement by Milo Djukanovic, and to clearly see the direction of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards KIM, a provision towards EULEX and what Milo Djukanovic said – that the Government of Serbia is agreeing with other countries on the recognition of our southern Serbian province. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4387	Thank you. On many occasions, you were practically asking the same question. In any case, I've had communication with the Prime Minister who's very in the mood to answer your questions, but you know that we need to schedule a special session at which the Prime Minister, with resolute ministers, would answer each of your questions. That's why I'm asking you to focus your attention, you know that the diapazon of interest was from economic policy, right now to foreign policy. So let's focus on the questions so that the resolution ministers are present. The Prime Minister is in a very good mood, as he does in public as well, and he has a business obligation to participate in the work and to give us answers. So, I would ask MPs to, indeed, focus in writing on the areas which are the subject of their interest, so that the resolution ministers and the Prime Minister will come to us and we can talk. Thank you. Mr. Free Maras has the word. I thought this explanation would be enough because we seem to repeat the exact same content and thus bother the citizens and block the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4388	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I do not advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I wanted to ask you to act in accordance with Rule 98 of this Rules of Procedure and that at 13.00 hours earlier, you give a break so that all interested MPs can be present on the Committee of Industry. We expect Minister Skundric to come and answer all the gas issues we have been asking these days. As you get to know yourself, we got an answer yesterday. We're not happy with that answer. We have a number of questions we'd like to clarify. I think other MPs from other parliamentary groups have the same desire to know what is currently important for Serbian citizens too. Last time you suggested that you give your colleague Andric a break so that we could attend the Finance Committee, when he was Governor Jelasic, in line with the intensity not to spread the panic, refused such a thing, and you felt that, at that time, it was the right solution. However, you proved to be wrong, the panic was not spread. I call on you to take the opportunity to correct your mistake, that is, to take a break at 13.00 today, so that MPs can attend the Committee on Industry, as I believe it is in the interest of a large number of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4389	I appreciate the suggestion, but I won't be able to accept it for two reasons. The first reason is that at that time we will discuss the amendments that most MPs are familiar with, and no committee should block the work of the Assembly. In addition, the Committee will probably catch up, so to speak, and a period of break, because I guess it won't end until 1400 hours, so I think we'll absolutely cover it in the period from 13.00 to 15.00 hours, so, in a way, your suggestion will be indirectly applied. According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you said that the MPs are sufficiently informed about the constitutional statements of Boris Tadic from the media, but the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly oblige you to point out to the MPs that Boris Tadic daily, as unfortunately, the President of the Republic violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. One day, he said that Serbia advocates the division of Kosovo and Metohija, although the constitution clearly predicts that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible, here he now states that "Serbia under certain conditions can accept the Eulex mission," although there is no UN Security Council decision on this, nor any decision by any authority of the Republic of Serbia, including the National Assembly. As for the KIM Resolution, it is obvious that its adoption at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is being obstructed by the ruling coalition. You will probably put that resolution on the agenda when the Eulexa mission is already being installed on KIM, of course, in a way that is directly opposed to both international law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What has made your position even more difficult is the fact that you did not point to the anti-state action of Boris Tadic at the moment when the AP Vojvodina Assembly brought in a fully anti-constitutional proposal of the AP statute, in front of our eyes and in front of the whole public. A new state is being created in northern Serbia. The president of the National Assembly is silent about it. Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you had to point out that the proposal for a statute of Vojvodina, adopted two days ago by the Regional Assembly, contains a whole series of solutions that are directly opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Vojvodina, to remind you, defines you as some democratic European region, which has its diplomatic representations in Brussels and in the countries of Europe, has its own government, concludes international contracts, ratifys international contracts. So there's a whole series of attributes of sovereign state. Boris Tadic's statement came at a time when it was obviously a serious intention to make the Vojvodina a federal unit, first of all, and tomorrow, perhaps, a completely independent state. You, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, are a member of the party that is the heritage of the tradition of so-called "Djukić-Dejanović". "Yogurt of Revolution." In 1988, your leaders expelled from the Assembly of Vojvodina Bosko Krunic, Živan Berisavljevic, etc. Here, in 2008, 20 years after the yogurt revolution, your MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly vote for the constitution of an independent state of Vojvodina! That's scandalous!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4391	Mr. Martinovic, my answer is contained in Article 218. Rules of Procedure: ''The Government shall report to the National Assembly on its work, and in particular on policy-making, enforcement of laws, other regulations and general acts, on the implementation of the plan for the development of the spatial plan and on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The government reports to the National Assembly when requested by the National Assembly or by its own initiative and at least once a year. The National Assembly may, on a proposal from a committee without a search, conclude that the Government will request a report on the work of the Government, or a report that the Government will inform the National Assembly of policy-making issues, law enforcement, other regulations and general acts, in a particular area. ''So, all the questions addressed to the Government can have an initiative on all our committees, and we are all members of individual committees. As far as the Duke's statutes are concerned, I informed yesterday that the statute was in the procedure, that it was delivered to us. My prejudge of the Parliament's position, because I could only speak for the MPs and the attitude that the Assembly takes, would really be pretentious and I couldn't possibly allow it. So, I understand your wish, of course, I have my own view of the statute, but simply, in a function in which I have no right to reconsider my position before the Assembly declares itself. I said, I multiplied the statute, it was going to be divided during the day, and it's going to be on the agenda. It's already been divided, I have information. The word is Mr. Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4392	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. 225 and 226. Madam President, we are now quite clear why this attempt of yours, your declarative pledge, to put it on the agenda and agree to the resolution on Kosovo, definitely failed, because you were not as the ruling coalition in the mood four months ago to resolutely reject the Eulex mission for a simple reason, because you decided to acknowledge that mission. This is clear to us, too, to the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I asked you from this pay phone, four or five times, the question – why has the work of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee not yet been unblocked? I haven't got the answer yet. Secondly, you said that the Prime Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is very much in the mood to come to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to hold talks on the situation at KIM, on the Eulex mission. Now I'm going to document you with an argument that the Prime Minister, ahem, is not in the mood to conduct negotiations and discuss the Eulex mission, the KIM problem. In this regard, the Assembly of the Community of KIM, held on 13 September 2008, in Kosovo Mitrovica, concluded, the first conclusion reads: "The Community Assembly of KIM is expressing its firm position that EULEX cannot and must not replace UNMIK in the province, because this would most brutally violate UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Since this mission has already been deployed at the part of the KIM space, without any relevant legal basis, the KIM Community Assembly of the Community determines that EULEX cannot be extended to Serb municipalities and settlements. Any such attempt will run into opposition from the Serbian people in the province. "The Serbian Prime Minister's statement on the reconfiguration of Eulex creates serious concerns in the Serbian people, so the leadership of the KIM Community Assembly of the KIM must, as soon as possible, at a meeting with Prime Minister Cvetkovic to clarify such publicly spoken views. Madam President, in 1309, this conclusion was reached. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, has not received a delegation of legally elected Serbs and representatives from KIM until today. Isn't that another enough proof of what the government of the Republic of Serbia's relationship to KIM is? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4393	Mr. MP, the Committee meeting is being convened by the president of the Committee. The debate at the Committee meeting is held regardless of the number of members present, so I call on the members of the KIM Committee to meet on a proposal from the Committee president and discuss the topic at issue. The Committee shall decide on the majority of the votes of the members present at the session, which shall be attended by the majority of the members of the Committee. But what is the fact is that the Committee can also invite the Prime Minister and the Registrar to attend a session on the issues you have raised. So, I think you got that instruction from me even when you first put this issue on the agenda. You have no right. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4394	Madam President, you're right, but you didn't understand my question, and now I'm going to repeat it in more detail. Can you give me an answer – why do the representatives of the KIM Committee, from the ruling majority, not come to the regular and orderly meetings of the KIM Committee?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4395	It is the duty of the Members to respond responsibly to all their obligations. I ask the members of the KIM Committee to respond to the calls handed to them by the chairman of the Committee. Mr. Milan Lapcevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4396	President-in-Office, I'm advocating Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, therefore, the dignity of all the MPs of the people, which refers to your earlier explanation, saying that the MPs of the opposition, above all from the DSS, are burdening the citizens. So, the opposition bothers the citizens, as if there was only a ruling coalition here, or MPs of the ruling coalition, as if they were the only ones chosen from these citizens, and we weren't. Who chose us? Well, solida, you're the same citizen. How we bother citizens here, if we point to citizens' life problems. Your parole, or parole of your ruling coalition's representative, was that "life can't wait." Right? If life can't wait, in just two weeks we've received several very interesting statements from officials of this country. The first statement was that KIM, in the end, perhaps, and should be shared, and that, no less or less, was said by the President of the Republic. After a week, the president of the Republic said we should accept the Eulex mission in Kosovo, i.e. agreeing with Brussels on its deployment in Kosovo, and the Eulex mission comes from the Martti Ahtisaari document - the implementation of Kosovo's independence. What does Eulex need to do on KIM, but to carry out independence? Today we are getting information, probably verified if Reuters announces that officials of this country have agreed with representatives of Montenegro to recognise the work of their territory. Is it normal, is it possible, that the country's top officials are agreeing with representatives of other countries to recognise Kosovo's independence, that is, part of their territory?- I'm sorry. It is an incredible policy and I simply wonder what the highest officials of this country are doing with this country and where the waters are if they negotiate with officials from other countries to recognise their territory's independence, it is just against constitutional action. Third thing, you're saying that we're bothering citizens because we're saying that the government doesn't have absolute economic policy management, because in just a week, energy, gas, up by 60%, which hasn't been recorded in the last 15 years, that any service or goods have cost 60% -- and the telecommunication services cost 100% of the day. And "life can't wait"? Is that a better life? (President: Would you like it to end? I demand of you, I am not satisfied with your explanation that we can in the form of demands, MPs of the opposition, ask that the Prime Minister or Foreign Minister come here to explain... (President: Mr. Lapcevic, speak for 40 seconds than expected. Would you like to formulate a sentence? So we want the ruling coalition to call its ministers. I'm sure neither you, President, nor the MPs of your party understand how this country's foreign policy is being run. So we're asking you to call here the foreign minister and the Prime Minister, to explain first and foremost to the citizens of Serbia what is the foreign policy of this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4397	Mr. Zeljko Tomic. In fact, I argue that everything that is repeated and all the content that is repeated on several occasions cannot be interesting to the citizens, and they speak very openly about it, and the term contrary to the interesting one, which was not directed to any parliamentary group but to all of us is simply detached in our language.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4398	Madam President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I am reporting under Article 226, which says, "The People's Parliament has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations" etc. Regarding the news that has come to pass, both in our and global media, which has been conveyed by Reuters, and here 'Tanjug', so there is no improvisation, no confusion, I will quote the Prime Minister of Montenegro, Mr Milo Djukanovic: "A few months ago, Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic was in Podgorica and asked us not to recognise Kosovo prior to the UN General Assembly's statement on the Serbian initiative. At the same time, our Euro-Atlantic partners expressed expectations that Montenegro recognises Kosovo, but we maintained our informal commitment to Serbia and waited for its proposal to be processed into the UN. "Then Djukanovic said that Montenegro recognised the unilaterally declared independence of the southern Serbian province on October 9th, the day after the vote in the UN General Assembly, but that it was just a coincidence, that it could have happened three or five days later and that nothing would have changed. When we add to this the fact that Serbian President Boris Tadic said that EULEX is acceptable to Serbia under certain conditions, and these conditions will quickly disappear and we are all aware of that, I must remind who is leading foreign policy under the Constitution, that is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Among us is a minister, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, of course, I don't want to call her out now and tell us, but it would be interesting if the citizens of Serbia and we MPs knew if there were any words about Eulex and to what extent. We have three motions for a resolution on KIM, different parliamentary groups and none have come to the agenda. KIM policy is being removed from the Serbian Parliament. That's an obvious fact. There are expressions in the diplomatic dictionary – public and secret diplomacy. There is no question that there is a secret diplomacy. But the secret diplomacy Mr. Jeremic led with Mr. Djukanovic is not in favour of our country. What does that mean? Admit Kosovo, but please don't until the UN General Assembly session, because I have to have points on the internal political scene. We demand that the Prime Minister come here... (President: Time. ..... Mirko Cvetkovic and Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4399	Mr. Buha, then Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to you for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I ask the question and ask the government for a notice, especially from Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobbic, on what was done in terms of the return of the Serbian Serb property and social rights from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia? I will refer to several of his statements that he made during a meeting with the Krajisnik citizens' associations during these 100 days, which also fits in with a report that the government must submit to the public for these 100 days. During a meeting with refugee associations held on 12 August 2008, the Deputy Prime Minister said: "The Republic of Croatia consciously, tends to slow down the process of returning refugees, returning their property, returning apartments, exercising pension rights and exercising the right to work." Another statement he made: "The government must insist on the consistent implementation of the Sarajevo Declaration on Refugees and Return of Apartments, the Agreement on Sucession and other legal acts between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia." Here I will quote a statement by a Serb population leader who remained in Croatia, Vojislav Stanimirovic, president of the Independent Serb Democratic Party, who said last year that 3.818 Serbs who returned from the Republic of Croatia had moved out of the country, means returnees who are returning to Serbia. All 1,480 Serbs returned to Croatia for their hearths. What does the government do? What does the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobbic, who cares, has legal powers, in terms of the exercise of the rights of the Serbs of Krajisnik? In addition, I am asking the Commissioner for Refugees - what does it do in terms of the life of landscape rights, property and social rights rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4401	Thank you. Your stenogram will be forwarded to Mr Krkobibić and we expect an answer within the deadline for the Rules of Procedure. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4402	Madam President, I am not going to advertise a member of 103th to throw MPs out of the bench when I told you that Mr. Milorad Buha is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in exile and, of course, that everyone will give him the advantage of speaking, Mr. Micunovic asked me – how can he be Prime Minister MP? Mr. Micunović, that's the highlight of cynicism. Since you are the original creator of what is today's DS and this treasonous policy of Boris Tadic, I must tell you that it is also the brazen and irresponsible conduct of one man, first of all, in those years and with such a political internship, that you cannot be an MP who is the Prime Minister. Mr. Buha, if he could be where he was born, where he lived, and where he was Prime Minister, in the rounded Republic of Serbia, he wouldn't be here in the parliamentary benches. So much for that. Now let me start with a concrete proposal for you, Madam President. This is where fellow Serbian radicals and some DSS colleagues appeared, urging Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic to come to the National Assembly. Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly say (and this is the possibility that I propose to you and I think that, within the next few minutes, it should already, on the basis of the clearly expressed will of the MPs, do so) that members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia attend, in addition to the MPs, members of the government, the authorised representatives of the other legislators, the secretary of the Republic of Serbia's legislature, as well as other persons who call on the president of the National Assembly. In particular, I suggest that you refer a letter to Andric's wreath, to invite Boris Tadic to come to the National Assembly. He broke Article 111. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the President of the Republic expresses national and state unity. In his statement yesterday, that it was an acceptable mission by Eulexa, which is the product of Martti Ahtisaari and those who take away our southern province, not only did he not express the state and national unity that has been here several times, but it is now seen, only declared in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through the vote of the resolution on the necessary preservation of our southern province, he also violated the oath he took, at a special session when he was elected, before us MPs. You don't mind the course of the session, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to do this. So, as you informed the MPs yesterday that, at the meeting of the Committee on Industry, you invited Minister Skundric, because of this whole mess that occurred, about the accumulation of gas and the apparent anxiety and concern of the citizens, above all, for their survival and living standards, you can, and we have been talking for an hour about this exactly that he has been unauthorized by the foreign policy of the government, which is not the job of the President of the Republic, violated the Constitution, violated all the resolutions we have brought about the need to preserve our southern province. Therefore, he would have to, unless he went somewhere today on his sales mission, apparently, and betraying national and state interests, to appear in the National Assembly. He's a long way from here, he goes across the walkway, comes here and we ask him a question. Nothing will interfere with the current course of the session. The law that we are talking about, or should begin the debate in detail on legal persons' responsibilities to commit a crime, is the continuation of yesterday's story. However, there is no greater and no worse and weaker act for the state of Serbia than that of the President of the Republic. (President: Time. ) I am giving you a concrete proposal that in the coming minutes, based on the expressed will of the MPs, it will not bother DS representatives to see their president in the National Assembly, and the public is also interested in calling Boris Tadic, and what to talk about is that Cvetkovic should be here. Thank you. I'm sorry I overstepped my time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4403	I called for today's session and for the scheduled agenda here is the government's representative, i.e. Minister, Mrs Malovic, and I called, as you know, Mr Jovan Cosic, counting on the agenda we planned and how we agreed to work. They're here. On all other matters, I will make every effort to assess what is relevant for the work of the congregation and what information we need and how we should deliver it. In any case, Non omnis possumus ome – we can't all do everything, in this country, is not good. Our activity should be excessively legislative. Mr. Dimitrijevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4404	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104, you said one sentence after the presentation of one of the DSS MPs – not to bother the public. We are launching an important topic, which is to defend the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. And you're telling us not to bother the public. We open topics that are important, both economic and social, and we bother the public?- I'm sorry. This statement of yours is scandalous. You mock the common sense, mock the public of Serbia with such statements. Something about an art. In 225 and 226, I will refer to Mr Mirko Cvetkovic's exposés. In the part of the exposé, it says - in this sense, the government will continue diplomatic activities aimed at recognising KIM independence as few countries as possible. One story from the prime minister in the exposé, and we heard Mr. Milo Djukanovic's statement. So, gentlemen, you're talking, you're thinking each other, and you're doing something else. You don't care about the state or the people at all. You care about the naked authorities. Well, that's how the government works based on co-operation with foreign embassies and tycoons. It's this government's policy. That's why this government is doing so, and that's why this government is leading the country to ruin. The Prime Minister and foreign minister must come here to face these two statements, to see which of them is lying – who is secretly negotiating and who is speaking publicly in his exposé to defend Serbia's integrity. What's this about? It's a hoax of the people, and for this you'll be held accountable for violating the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4405	Thank you. Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic has a word, then Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4406	I am impressed by Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, your knowledge of Latin sentiments, you are a learned woman, but it cannot hide the fact that you did break Article 27 after all. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Your Rules of Procedure obliges you to point out to the MPs all those facts, circumstances, actions and statements, whoever they come from, even if it is the President of the Republic, who is in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or who are being questioned by the fundamental state and national interests. People's MPs should not just be allowed from the media to hear that the President of the Republic makes counter-constitutional statements. That, first of all, should have been heard from you. You are obliged to alert the National Assembly and the public in Serbia whenever something is happening in Serbia that challenges its constitutional order. I didn't ask the Serbian government, you seem to have misunderstood me, so I'm not asking a parliamentary question to the government or to some minister, we have the Serbian government only formally, essentially none of them are running politics. Each of the ministers in the Serbian government only executes the orders of Boris Tadic. So I asked the question, why did you, as president of the National Assembly, not inform the National Assembly that Boris Tadic in continuity is making statements that question the basic constitutional postulates of this country: state unity, territorial unity, sovereignty, etc. That's what he's talking about. What we ask is no obstruction in the work of the National Assembly. I really don't understand these throws where representatives of the ruling coalition sit. These are issues that are of interest to the citizens of Serbia. It is true that the National Assembly is a legislative body, but it is not just that. Here, Mr. Micunovic knows, since ancient times, the Assembly is primarily a place where debates on current political issues. So where will the people's representatives speak of the fact that the President of the Republic is questioning the Constitution of Serbia and violates the country's state and national unity and territorial integrity, except in the National Assembly. Are we supposed to be in parks holding rallys or somewhere else? Where, if not in the National Assembly? That thesis that MPs only serve to talk about bill proposals, which, by the way, are very bad, and that nothing else should be talked about, is something that is completely contrary to the spirit of democracy. Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I reminded you a few days ago, apropo stealing a mandate by Tomislav Berlusconi. When a public prosecutor, when he gets to the vote that a crime has been committed, he is obliged to take certain steps, no one has to file a criminal complaint. So are you, when you hear and when you find out Boris Tadic or someone else from state officials... (President: Time. I'm finishing up... He made a statement against the Constitution of Serbia, so you must react immediately, the MPs must not warn you. You are the first among the equals, you are the most responsible for respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and its Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4407	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Martinovic, every initiative of every MP is an obligation for me. But this parliament decides mostly. At the moment I assess that most MPs have an initiative in line with the content of what you are proposing, I will be significantly more active on these initiatives. The parliamentary majority doesn't have, on these issues that we're talking about today, a position like you. Mrs. Ragush Marina, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4408	I'm reporting from an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has been pointing to a flagrant violation of all constitutional principles and the terrible terror of the majority, namely the self-will directly of Boris Tadic. What the SRS is looking for right now is for an emergency president of Serbia to appear here, the Prime Minister and all resolution ministries, because this parliament also represents internal control in front of the public court of any move taken by the president and the government, which works exclusively in the interest of the DS political mentors. In order not to be wrong in interpreting what President Tadic did in the previous days, what we had the opportunity to read on the site 'B92', which was notified by all the world media and at this point, ladies and gentlemen MPs, our countrymen should know that Serbia's Constitution is being done, so put aside. Why? Because Serbian President Boris Tadic said there was a possibility that Brussels and Belgrade could agree on the deployment of a European Union mission in Kosovo and that the agreement would be confirmed by the UN Security Council. This is a disgrace to democracy. This is a disgrace to this home. This is also the saddest period in Serbia's recent political history! Let's move on. So, I quote President Tadic - we are working on this with all international forums and with the UN Security Council and with the European Union, with representatives of Russia and the United States, with all who are vital to the future of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. Tadic said in an interview with Evening News, he broadcasts "B92" and all the other media. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Belgrade, citizens of Serbia, Serbian peoples, from this moment on, you should know that the opposition is trying to bring into constitutional flows what is political life in Serbia, but without a lot of effects because President Boris Tadic has taken full power into his own hands. That's the only truth we need to talk about here. I would just like to be told by the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, by one of the ruling majority here when this topic was discussed in the Serbian Parliament? Based on what platform does the president run foreign policy? Who lied to us here? In which parliament do we all exist? Or might it be best, given that such an important debate and the Constitution are being violated daily, that we simply disband Parliament and declare the dictatorship of Boris Tadic? I'm sorry about the overrun. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4409	Gentlemen, before I give my word to the next speaker, I would like to remind you to look at the Rules of Procedure, given that the relationship between the President of the Republic and Parliament is regulated. From 182 to 189 and I ask you to formalize all your requirements regarding concrete proposals, so that I can comply with them. The word is Mr. Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4410	I'm reporting for an article. 218, 225 and 226. I ask for an urgent report and an explanation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia – which is why Serbia has in no way responded to the great provocation that Serbia experienced several days ago from the Milorad Dodik regime. What's this about? On October 11th, just a day after Montenegro recognised the terrorist formation, independent Kosovo, Republika Srpska President Rajko Kuzmanovic, is on an official visit to Montenegro. Rajko Kuzmanovic, who was elected as Milorad Dodik's candidate, is the first foreign official to visit Montenegro after Montenegro recognised Kosovo's independence. It is not just a diplomatic scandal, it is a direct and brutal violation of the special relations agreement adopted twice in this House. This "alive Serbian wound" is even more painful if it is given the fact that Milorad Dodik, for a long time, has been a favorite of all the regimes in Belgrade. Thanks to this, Milorad Dodik bought a villa on Dedinj for the money, bought a Belgrade-based company, Komgrap. For a long time, his firm, I think, has been called "Integral Engineering," performing construction works on the travel network in Serbia. Milorad Dodik participates in all election campaigns of DS and party G17. The first pre-election meeting of this year's G17 party, it seems to me he was in Loznica. Milorad Dodik was an honorary guest and spoke at a pre-election meeting of the Democratic Party in Novi Sad. He also spoke at the Democratic Party's final rally at the Arena. It is interesting that in a pre-election campaign in Republika Srpska for local elections held on October 5th, Milorad Dodik had undivided, complete, support for the regime in Belgrade. Just five days after he won the election convincingly, among other things, thanks to Belgrade's support, Milorad Dodik, the president of the state, sends the president of Republika Srpska on an official visit to Podgorica and practically stabs him in the back of the same regime in Belgrade. I ask for an explanation, in the meantime, did the five days break between Boris Tadic and Milorad Dodik? Is the Special Liaison Agreement still in place? The fact that the Republic of Serbia has in no way responded to this provocation suggests that it is something completely different, that Rajko Kuzmanovic has travelled to Montenegro with the agreement of the regime in Belgrade. This also points to the fact that ten days ago in Podgorica, at the opening of a store, Prime Minister of Serbia Cvetkovic, Republika Srpska Prime Minister Milorad Dodik and Montenegrin Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic met.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4411	The word is Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4412	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, reporting to the Rules of Procedure. 225 and 226. My intention is not to obstruct the work of this congregation, but to send some political messages and get certain notices. You know that the DSS has been since the opposition is in one media dark, and this speaker is, in fact, our window and we use this opportunity for these reasons to address the citizens of Serbia. Namely, I, like my predecessors, want to get an explanation of who authorized Mr. Vuk Jeremic to negotiate on behalf of Serbia with the Montenegrin prime minister -- is this the assembly, is it the government or the president of the state?- I'm sorry. To these questions, Vuk Jeremic needs to give us an answer and therefore I ask you to invite Mr Vuk Jeremic to give us an answer to these questions as soon as possible. According to the analogy, the president or representative of Macedonia will also report tomorrow and also say the same thing – that, in agreement with representatives of Serbia, he recognised Kosovo only after the United Nations resolution. For this reason, I ask you to call urgently on the Prime Minister, Prime Minister of State and Foreign Affairs Vuk Jeremic to address the MPs in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4413	The word is Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4414	Madam President, here I am, really taking the opportunity to apologize to you, I made one mistake and to inform the MPs that you actually invited Boris Tadic to come to the session. I was reminded of my first working day, I saw in the session synopsis, you, having responded to the National Assembly for your work, on the basis of a member of 189th, informed Boris Tadic that a session of the National Assembly was held. Since he has been informed that he is not informed, I am now responsible, and you will say that after my statement that you did it in the first day, he should appear in the National Assembly. When you said and sent messengers, I listened to you following an article. From 182 to 189, Mrs Djukic - Dejanovic, it is in a situation where the president of the state behaves in accordance with his constitutional powers. At that time, the National Assembly can have such a relationship and it is regulated by the precise Rules of Procedure, which is that it signs the declaration of the law, that it proposes, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, certain holders and representatives to choose on the basis of its constitutional powers, but the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not know the situation in which the President of the Republic leads foreign policy. It's a relationship between the National Assembly and the Government. That's why we're looking, based on Article 87. The Rules of Procedure, to appear representatives of the government, namely President Cvetkovic and Vuk Jeremic, eventually the entire government. Not because there is now a set of laws on the agenda in the area of justice and the government has set up its representative on this item of the agenda, Minister of Justice Mrs Malovic, but this is now a completely emergency situation, I would say, the state is concerned, the survival of our people in Kosovo and Metohija is at stake. If it wasn't difficult, and we thank him for that, his Excellency to Russian Ambassador, Mr Konuzin, to spend two days in Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Kragovic and all the representatives of the authorities, Mr Milentijevic spoke of it yesterday, were with him for two days in municipalities that barely survive. For what? Because Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija were robbed of DS. Has Goran Bogdanovic filed a report on how the robbery was committed and how our municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija barely survive? It's not. What is Goran Bogdanovic's mission? Did he tell us that? Did he say his strategy as Minister for Kosovo and Metohija? Who, in front of what committee? There's a council committee in the blockade. Did he appear before the National Assembly? Indeed, unnecessarily, as some might say, we are panicking, panic has already been present for years since the day of occupation with Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. It's easy for us here, we're in downtown Belgrade, King of Milan 14, building eight meters below ground level, buried in this basement, we're talking. We are representatives of the people, but imagine how that people are there, and this across the street, President of the Republic, is okay. Here, he was invited by article 189. So he's not uninformed, he just needs to show up here and answer our questions about how he broke the Constitution and how he took on himself unauthorized to run the country's foreign policy, the opposite of the Constitution, state and national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4415	Of course, I acted in accordance with Article 189 and it is a regular procedure for the President of the National Assembly to inform the President of the Republic of the session he holds and schedules. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Petar Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4416	Madam Chairman, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, In 225 and 226, by asking for notice whether following these warnings and calls from the MPs, ministers and prime ministers will come to inform Serbian lawmakers and citizens of the situation concerning the integrity and sovereignty of KIM. I agree with you that our Rules of Procedure are written as it is, and you stick to that Rules of Procedure, but I must tell you, the Bundestaga businessman is enough to ask that one MP come to answer questions, then the minister comes to Bundestag and gives answers. Please understand that I just want to point out and draw attention to the fact that this is about changing, emerging circumstances when it comes to the state and its sovereignty. You saw what the Prime Minister said on TV last night. The prime minister said, "Yes, I talked about the recognition of KIM" before they admitted and went to the opening of Miskovic's store, according to counterpart Maric. But this is a new situation and this is a very serious thing, circumstances have changed. Responsible ministers should appear because the ministers have been elected by MPs in this House. I cannot understand that the ministers have been raped so much, that they have estranged from Parliament, that they do not respect those who choose them. Therefore, it is necessary on your part, please, and I suggest that we introduce practice here, even if we change the Rules of Procedure in that part, that the prime minister and ministers appear and give answers, because these are very important answers for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4417	Thank you. And this content will be passed on to the Prime Minister, like all previous ones, as an idea and initiative. We move to the 4th item of the agenda : – Proposal for a LAW ON THE RESPONSIBILITY OF CRIME PERSONS (single) The National MP Aleksandar Martinović has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a bill on legal persons' responsibility for crimes, in particular. I must admit that the solutions contained in the bill fully shifts the established perceptions of criminal responsibility, both on a doctrinal, or theoretical plan, and on a normative plan and on a court-law plan. What has a criminal theory established so far? She found that only natural persons could be held accountable. Why? Because criminal responsibility, I think you agree, Mrs Malovic, implies consciousness and will, awareness that one act is against the law, or that it is a crime, and the will to do it. In other words, only a natural person who has these psychological elements — consciousness and will — can be held guilty. A legal person can't be held accountable for the simple reason he doesn't have biological subjectivity. The legal person does not have his will, in the psychological sense of that word. It has no consciousness, in the psychological sense of that word. Legal face is one legal structure. Only natural persons who possess biological subjectivity can be held accountable. That's why the whole concept of the Bill of Liability Act is disputed from the point of view, above all, by criminal law. What it says in this bill is fully analising the achievements that criminal law theory has come to, not only in Serbia but everywhere in the world. I think the problem of the generation of Mrs. Malovic and my generation, I suppose we studied at the same time, which is a classical Serbian legal thought from our textbooks. Among other things, Slobodan Jovanovic and Toma Zivanovic were expelled. After World War II, communist theorists wanted to start history, including legal science. All of what the greats of Serbian legal thoughts wrote until World War II were somehow pushed into oblivion. And, roughly, the bill is on the verge of forgetting the classical achievements, not only of Serbian but also of European legal theories. Why do I say that? The famous criminal theoryist, Serbian, Toma Zivanovic established something called the criminal rights tripartium. Criminal law is a system made up of three basic elements: criminal offense, criminal sanctions and criminal liability. Toma Zivanovic said, all legal theorists repeat, that only natural persons, therefore, who possess biological subjectivity, who have consciousness and will, can be held guilty. The criminal liability of a legal person is completely unknown in legal theory. What's written in the explanation why my amendment doesn't seem to be accepted seems pretty funny to anyone who has any knowledge of criminal law matter. So, the draft law on the liability of legal persons for criminal acts, which is what we're discussing today, I wrote an amendment to Article 1. The bill is deleted. The government says this way: "The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the subject of the bill" is, beware of the genius of those who wrote this argument, and I believe that it is not Mrs Malovic, she probably knows this matter better, she says, 'it is not the criminal responsibility of the legal persons, but the responsibility of the legal persons for the crimes'. I'd like someone to explain to me what a fundamental difference it is when it's called "the criminal liability of a legal person" and "the liability of a legal person for crimes". There's no difference, no languages, no legal differences. Here some brand-new criminal law institute is being established, and that is, that even legal persons who have no biological subjectivity, who have no consciousness and will, can be held accountable. In the light of the amendments, it is further stated that this is about one particular aspect of the objective responsibility of legal persons. The basic achievement, Mrs. Malovic, I hope you agree with me on this, the theory of criminal law is that criminal responsibility is a completely subjective category. He can't be in criminal law responsible for other people's actions. The objective responsibility of the state is permitted only in the area of civil law. Therefore, if a civil servant deliberately or out of extreme negligence causes damage, that damage is, in principle, the objective responsibility of the state, but the State is then entitled to be regressed from the civil servant who has committed the damage. So civil law allows for objective responsibility. The criminal right not to allow it, but strictly forbids it. A criminal liability can only be attributed to a natural person who has committed a crime, provided that he has owned a certain degree of consciousness and will to commit the crime. What it says in the bill of law is completely deviating from some of the constitutional elements of criminal law theory, and criminal law and criminal judicial practice. It's impossible for a legal person to be held accountable. There is no difference between a legal person and a natural person; a natural person has consciousness and will; a legal person has no consciousness and will. On the other hand, introducing objective responsibility in criminal law is one very dangerous adventure. There's Mr. Zoran Krasic, and he'll probably fill me in, and that's the adventure of the UN tribunal. Command responsibility, as an institute of criminal law, and, uh, some, some, new, fictional, 'joint criminal enterprise' institute, is nothing more than an objective criminal responsibility. So you can be held accountable even though you haven't committed any crime, and if someone else you're supposed to command committed a crime, then you're criminally responsible, on the principle of command responsibility. And if you were involved in some "joint criminal enterprise," you didn't have to commit any crimes at all. It's important to prove that you're part of a joint criminal enterprise and you're guilty. What does that mean on a specific case? It is enough that you said in the early 1990s that the Serb people at the premises of the former Yugoslavia are threatening a new genocide, you are already in danger of being classified as members of a joint criminal enterprise, that you planned to commit genocide against other peoples. The indictments of The Hague tribunal and of Slobodan Milosevic and of Vojislav Seselj and of Milan Martic indicate a larger or smaller circle of persons who participated in the so-called "Selj" in the indictments of The Hague tribunal and against Slobodan Milosevic and against Vojislav Seselj and against Milan Martic. "A joint criminal enterprise." Both Slobodan Milosevic and Vojislav Seselj, and Veljko Kadjevic, and Blagoje Adzic, and Milan Martic, and Milan Babić, and Radovan Karadzic, etc., each of them is guilty only because it is part of something called "joint criminal enterprise", although perhaps that individual personally did not commit any crime. So, Mrs. Malovic, this bill of law, and that is the essence of my amendment, departs from two basic criminal rights settings. One is that only natural persons can be held accountable. The criminal liability of a legal person has been completely unrecorded. The second item, which is broken down by this bill, is that criminal responsibility is exclusively a subjective category, that only the person who committed it can be held accountable for a crime. The objective responsibility does not have a standoff in criminal law theory. All eminent criminal rights theorists reject objective responsibility. The UN tribunal critics also point to the fact that the principle of command responsibility in The Hague tribunal and too broadly set, too broadly compared to the case-law from the time of the Nuremberg Process, the Tokyo Process, etc. You are now entering the elements of the tribunalalization of our criminal legislation here. You are now tribunalising the criminal justice system of the Republic of Serbia. You refer here to some international documents, conventions, etc. You are, in fact, invoking yourself, only you were not allowed to say it publicly, to the Statute and to the practice of the UN tribunal. That's the essence of the whole story. There was an objective responsibility in terms of command responsibility and so on. A common criminal enterprise. You are now trying to install this practice into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, you wanted to, in a way, mask your true intention, so you said this was about objective legal responsibility, in other words, the responsibility of the legal person for the action that makes in his name a responsible person in a legal person. Mrs. Malovic, you are denying yourself, not personally, but those who wrote this bill, because in Article 7(2) you wrote that the legal person corresponds, even, even if the criminal case against the responsible person has been suspended or the charge has been dropped. In other words, the legal person becomes responsible in itself and without the person responsible, therefore, the person in the legal face, having committed a crime. How can someone who has no biological subjectivity, has no consciousness and has no will to be held guilty, even in situations where a criminal case against a responsible natural person has been suspended or the indictment has been dropped. Simply, what you wrote in article 1. The bill, what you wrote in your explanation, why my amendment and what you wrote in Article 7(2) is not accepted. The bill of law has nothing to do with each other. What you wrote in article 7 directly undermines the whole concept of your bill that the criminal liability of a legal person is a responsibility for another, for a responsible natural person in that legal person. That's why the whole concept of this law on glass legs, unfounded in criminal law theory, is unfounded in legislation, unfounded in judicial practice. This law, even if you adopt it here, will be very difficult to apply, there will be great volunteerism in practice, there will be deviations from it. In order to adapt this lifeless law to legal life, court practice will have to step down from it. Then you'll have more damage than the benefits of this bill that you wanted to achieve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4419	Thank you. Mr. Krassic, you have three minutes left. You won't? The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has not accepted the amendments, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendments be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Malovic, colleague Aleksandar Martinovic explained in a great way that this law does not have a foothold in legal preambles, but I do not know, colleague Martinovic, did you see in the reasoning of this law what the proposer is calling for. He's referring to FNRJ regulations. So, the greatest son of all the peoples and peoples FNRJ was vampires! And where he is now, besides going to games and other events, of course, that's where we should go because of our brilliant athletes and other artists, but most often where he shows up, we have bad results. You saw Krasic and our other players play great, he wasn't there. He occasionally comes to the building on Andric's wreath and creates a series of problems for the Republic of Serbia. I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 of this bill, to delete Section 2. Article 7 reads: "The responsibility of the legal person is based on the guilt of the responsible person. ''Stat 2. says: ''Under the conditions laid down in Article 6 of this Act, a legal person shall be liable for the criminal offence of the responsible person and if the criminal offence against the responsible person has been suspended or the charge has been dropped. ''So, I have submitted an amendment to delete attitude 2 and I do not have a special need to explain it, because counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic explained in a great way that this is wrong. I think that this law, if it becomes so, will serve the legal theory and the students of the Faculty of Law – how and how laws should not be passed and put into legal traffic, i.e. in the legal system of the state of Serbia. In this law, like the others you are now bringing, you have called for him to be required for his accession to the European Union. And do you think we need the Traffic Safety Act, because in a few decades, more specifically, in two and a half decades, our lives have been lost on our roads by over 35,000 Serbian citizens, probably others, and you don't need it? You don't think about it. You don't want to put such a law on the agenda, and something that has no basis, something that can't practically survive, you're trying to bring, and here you're taking valuable time away from us people's MPs, as well as from the citizens of Serbia. Our obligation, MPs of the SRS, is to fight for the truth and it is within us, and this kind of wrong law that does not serve anything we cannot attach great importance to, is our obligation to point it out to you. Our first MP to submit an amendment to this law explained it quite well. I think these amendments should be accepted and, in addition, these amendments cannot be made a quality law and cannot serve anything good. I cannot take the opportunity not to say at this time that the President of the Republic of Serbia is ahead in confirming the state of KiM alone, because, in fact, he, in my deep conviction, runs from one to the next and begs them to speed up some procedures that would confirm an illegal decision on the independence of KIM. He is likely to give instructions as to how he could become to anyone acceptablely independent of KIM. Apparently, three conditions that need to be met so that the Eulex mission can be acceptable to Serbian citizens and, then, that will be fine. None today are acceptable to the citizens of KIM and all of Serbia! As long as you ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think of you as testing the ultimate endurance of the citizens of KIM and all of Serbia?- I'm sorry. Are your thoughts scattered and not concentrated? Focus on what is fundamental, and it is essential to maintain integrity and give a better life to Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4421	There's a word from MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 7(2), I have submitted an amendment - to delete Section 2. The explanation states that, if the legal person is held accountable, as is the position of Article 7(1). The draft law on the liability of the legal person, derived from the established guilt of the responsible person, then it is legally impossible and illogical that the legal person can answer. Because if the criminal case against the responsible person has been suspended or the charge has been dropped, namely, if the case against the responsible person has been suspended, it means that there is no act to be imposed on him, that the person is not guilty or that there is no evidence that the person has committed or committed a crime. This would mean that there is no criminal responsibility for the responsible person, and without the criminal responsibility of the responsible person, the responsibility of the legal person cannot stand. Furthermore, if the charge is denied, then it means there is no charge against the responsible person, so the court did not commit to the criminal liability of the responsible person. Such a situation raises the question – how can a legal person be held responsible if the criminal responsibility of the responsible person is not established, because the person responsible in this situation is not charged. This is really unacceptable, Madam Minister. Professor Martinovic explained the concept of crime very well. A guilty person can only be the person who is mentally responsible, so, a physical person. There's no subjective legal responsibility here. Why have our amendments been rejected? It is stated in the explanation that, in this way, the legal and liability of the responsible person is deducted, but such an exception is necessary in the event that the case against the responsible person has been suspended or the charge has been dropped due to some legal interference. What legal interference? What are these legal interferences? How will some investor who invests here in Serbia and based the relationship of a legal person, if appointed by a director, be responsible that he has obtained some property benefit or committed some crime? Imagine a man in a country who is responsible for this because his responsible person committed a crime. It is truly unacceptable, instimulative, and amazing. You can't talk like this and this law can't be passed, there's no basis, and this attitude 2 needs to be deleted. Because if there is no criminal responsibility for the responsible person, how can the legal person be held accountable? This part was extremely well solved by the Law of Infractions, through misdemeanor proceedings and through economic offences. If the fines were small, those penalties should have been lifted. But introducing one of these institutes just because it would run towards everything, these, some, European Unions, in this way, I said earlier, it would be extremely unstimulative, precisely for those who need to come to this country to invest, to face one of these laws that is completely deviating from our current procedure. So the crime can't exist for a legal person if the responsible person committed a crime. So, in particular, it irritates when the case against the responsible person is suspended to remain a legal person's fault. I think this amendment, which my colleague Peric and I have put together, should be accepted, should be completed and I think you will have that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4423	I thank Mr. Spasojevic. He has the word Mr. Krasic. Your parliamentary group has nine minutes left on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4424	There are probably no two members in this bill that require more attention than Articles 1 and 7 and that sees the right person and sees all mistakes. I don't know who wrote you an explanation for these amendments and for what you said you refused those amendments? But you know, you also have problems with translation. Because if an international document says it's going to be a felony, it doesn't mean it's going to be a crime. Penalty is both a violation and an economic offense. Somewhere abroad, it's called a criminal act of what's called an economic offense. But that wasn't your point, when you did this bill, it was your goal, but we're going to talk about some of the following amendments. You see, there's some kind of crime that can be done through an execution shop, but it can also be done by missing out. You probably know there's a responsibility and some faces for other people's actions, but they're physical faces again, both first and second. If a legal person should be responsible for the act or failure of a responsible person, we have so far been in a system of offenses and commercial offences. There was no criminal law. Is there a possible principle of objective responsibility in criminal law? It's not possible, because criminal responsibility requires wine and accountability. These two categories can only be attached to a natural person, legal person is impossible. How are you going to appreciate the accountability of a legal person? I ask this question not because of criminal responsibility, but because I am trying to enter your terminology – because of responsibility for a crime? What could be the responsibility for a crime? Only criminal responsibility, because the crime is an individual's artistic creation, a physical person. There are variations when more people participate, like some community, like some collectiveity, some group, whether there's a conspiracy system, complicity in a narrow or broader sense, in any way, but still all participants respond as natural persons, for their work or for their contribution to the cause of a particular crime. What is this criminal responsibility or responsibility for a crime unless there is a prison? This is where you predicted a death sentence for a legal person. The tendency in Europe is to get the death penalty thrown out as a punishment for crimes, if that is a tendency then the death penalty is thrown out and for liability based on criminal acts, whether it's a father or a son. You said here, if the responsible person in the legal person commits the crime, no matter what crime, then, the legal person will be fined, or there will be a termination of the legal person. Stopping a legal person is a death sentence. So, you'd want the death penalty of all the legal entities that don't suit you, to punish you, it's not a criminal responsibility, no, it's your goal of destruction, and then you go with some fairy tales, with some stories. There is no such concept of law on the globe of the earth. This ain't got no England, it ain't in the U.S. either. There isn't, there isn't, it's impossible. I'm not going to tell you now about the decisions of the Lord's home about something called a joint criminal enterprise, "joint criminal entertainment," etc., but there's also talk about the responsibilities of only natural persons, not legal persons. There may even be an adviser to a company that is not in the company because of the wrong advice he has given to the company, so the company has committed some kind of violation, and then the adviser answers the responsible person in the company, but does not answer the legal face. But you don't know anything, you just have a label -- I'm a Democrats, I'm a horse, I'm an expert, I'm this, I'm that. You're not going to discuss these issues here, you're going to run to Studio B, B92, the newspaper, the rip-off parties, you're going to fly PTT just to make a mistake. Here, is this an obstruction of parliament? Come out, explain why this is a good thing you suggested. Don't just sing me a story about it. Some companies are criminal, so they're committing some crimes, so we can punish the director, there'll be others, so there'll be crimes again, etc., let go of that story. Come on, grab your waist, so let's see how much you know, do you know anything to explain here? Mrs. Malovic, since "B92" has announced that one judge has deceived an old lady, I think you need to intervene with the Supreme Court Supervisory Board and other judicial authorities, to examine whether it is true and whether someone should be called to account. I'll leave the rest of my time to my colleague. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4425	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that we have already elaborated enough the fact that what it says in Article 7 and what it says in Article 1. The proposal absolutely has nothing to do with each other, i.e. Article 7(2)'s position adjudicates a complete concept of the Law on Legal Liability for Crime. However, there is another question here. First of all, Mrs. Malovic, you have to write a bill to a little bit and enjoy a life situation. Imagine, there is no responsibility of the responsible person, in translation, we would say the director or the elder standing at the head of a legal person. So either the charge has been dropped or the criminal proceedings have been suspended. How do you think a court can conduct criminal proceedings against a legal person, therefore, is one collectiveity that does not have its biological existence, and at the same time there is no responsibility of the responsible person. How is such a legal person going to fit in the first place? How are you going to prosecute him? Who's gonna represent this legal person? You can't, say, one company, if it's a company like a legal person, which is possible by the concept of this law, to move it to court and to judge it. You can't judge walls. You can't judge employees who work in that legal person. You can't judge computers, cars, etc. And it's all a legal face. Legal face is one legal structure. People wanted to create a concept of a legal person because it was necessary for the legal system to function, both in the public and private justice systems. However, what you have now written in Article 7 in Section 2 simply raises the question of how it is technically possible to conduct a criminal case against a legal person in a situation where there is no criminal responsibility for a responsible natural person. That's one thing. It's another thing. I would draw attention to Mrs Malovic, and to all those who write the reasons for the bill coming before the MPs, in every draft law we are discussing these days, of course, the reasons for the adoption of the law by an urgent procedure, it is some offensive formulation contained in each bill: 'By passing this law by emergency procedure, it is proposed that all necessary conditions be created as soon as possible', imagine the formulation, 'for the work of the authorities and organisations, in order to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Serbia in the process of joining the European Union. ''Mrs. Malovic, not all nonsense can, I'm re-deploying, I'm not saying that you are responsible, but not all nonsense can be treated as a necessary condition for the Republic of Serbia to join the EU. I really didn't hear, correct me if I'm wrong, neither Olli Rehn nor Javier Solana, nor any other European official that told Boris Tadic, Bozidar Djelic, Dinkic etc. – The Republic of Serbia can enter the EU if it adopts the law that legal persons are also held accountable. I didn't hear. Maybe I'm not informed enough. Correct me if I'm wrong. I heard something else. I heard they say that if you don't hand it over to the UN tribunal, you can't join the EU; if you do not recognise the independence of the Republic of Kosovo, you cannot join the EU. I heard that they said that these are the necessary conditions for Serbia to join the EU, but, indeed, I have not heard that the legal person must be held accountable because, there, some EU administration official in Brussels, demands that there is one such institute in our criminal law system. These traditions that you are referring to and which my colleague Sreto Peric has well noticed are really funny. I'll quote those laws. So, certain regulations of the former FNRJ that were passed after World War II, such as the Law on Criminal Crimes against People and State. Otherwise, under the law, all those who remained loyal to the official authorities of Yugoslavia and who did not conform to the Partisan movement were enemies of the people and states. Furthermore, the Penal Code and the Criminal Code contained provisions on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences; Article 16. The criminal code prescribed that they were legal persons, imagine, again...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4427	Mr. Martinovic, your group has exceeded one minute, but finish your thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4428	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I have reported on the amendment of counterpart Srdjan Spasojevic. He's...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4429	The amendments are identical and your parliamentary group has 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4430	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I am using a time of 15 minutes belonging to the SRS parliamentary group to discuss the amendment of a MP who does not belong to our parliamentary group. The amendments are identical, it's a technical matter. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is our right, as a parliamentary group, to discuss 15 minutes of each amendment. It's our business whether we talk or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4431	Yeah, about every amendment, but if there are more identical texts, it's just one single amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4432	And where does that say?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4433	That's how I interpret it, and I ask you to bring an end to the thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4434	I think your interpretation is very wrong, but, here, let me, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have to admit one fact, here, I'm not talking about Boris Tadic's statement that Kosovo should be shared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4435	That's why I'm saying, I absolutely respect the content you've devoted yourself to right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4436	I'm not talking about Boris Tadic's statement that he will allow the Eulex mission. I'm talking about a subject that's on the agenda and I think it's very interesting, I'm trying to explain the position of the SRS parliamentary group on the large illogicalities contained in the draft of this law. So I'm really trying to be as constructive as I can. I'm not a man of some particular mind, but what I do know, here, I'm trying to speak for a congregation speaker. I know that in the MP lines where DS MPs sit, there are bigger experts than me, I understand that, but I'm waiting for them to come out and try to explain the ingenuity contained in this bill. So, Article 16. The criminal code prescribed that legal persons, imagine which term – legal persons, are solely responsible for those crimes for which their responsibility is explicitly determined in the Law. Now imagine this tradition, which is very rich and called upon by the legislator of this law, lasted six years. In 1951, however, the provisions of the legal persons' responsibility for criminal offences had ceased to apply. So much for tradition. So, this rich tradition called upon by the legislator of this law, why in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia should there be a criminal liability of legal persons, lasted for six full years, and that is quite enough historical basis for the adoption of, in 2008, the traditions of Tito's imperfect lawyers and those who had kept cattle before the Second World War, and in 1945, become generals and professors of the university, so, imagine, as a condition for entering the EU, one such law. So, Mrs. Malovic, someone deceived you in a very perfidious way. He gave you hot potatoes in your hands to explain here that no one in Serbia can explain. It is clear to the students of law school that this law, even if adopted, is a stillborn child. It just can't be applied in practice. And now it's your turn to explain it. Your situation is very difficult and I will try as hard as I can to help you and make your position easier. I doubt you'll have any support from your DS party colleagues and the ruling coalition. Their task here is only to scream when the name Boris Tadic is mentioned and to talk about the bill – what do they care? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4437	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet," according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very interesting that Madam President of the National Assembly is not here right now, but I must mention, although it was not the cause of my reporting, that he can no longer bear that the MPs of the SRS speak of the amendments, as much as the Rules of Procedure allows, and I don't know, really, what's the occasion. When we talked these previous days about how the SRS seized mandates, how Boris Tadic was involved in the job, how the SRS has been running since Zoran Djindjic, from that famous sentence addressed to Karli del Ponte – to lead Seselj to The Hague and not to return him from there, to the fact that the former right hand, as Judge Antoneti called one man, provided certain false data and stenograms on the basis of which The Hague tribunal was to impose a lawyer, Vojislav Seselj. I want to introduce you now, dear colleagues and citizens of Serbia, to what we said today, and it's about Milo Djukanovic and Boris Tadic, how it's a nice date, how they work, although they tell citizens some other stories and the one there and this one right here. So, the hunt against the SRS, or the Serbian Radical Party, has spread to Montenegro as well. Today, in downtown Podgorica, Vlado Vukovic, president of the Serbian Radicals Municipal Committee, was arrested because he raised three fingers in the centre of Podgorica, drawing attention to himself. Everyone there knows he's a Serb, they know who he is, but the SRS needs in all Serbian countries to collapse because they failed here and they won't make it anywhere, wherever they try. This is more information for the public, because as MPs, we are obliged to inform Serbian citizens of certain facts. So, Tadic – Nikolic also joined Djukanovic. We now have the trio: Boris Tadic – Milo Djukanovic – Tomislav Nikolic, all together against Vojislav Seselj. Their fight is in vain! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4439	Thank you. Mr. Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4440	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I am reporting on the amendments discussed by previous colleagues. First of all, I would point out that as far as the theory of criminal law is concerned, what counterpart Martinovic said is quite in place. If he had a different answer for me in the exam, he would have fallen. But that's criminal law theory. I'd like to ask you a few questions. In fact, if you want LDP MPs to support this law, which is within the set of laws that bring us closer to EU legislation, it is not clear to me why you do not provide explanations on all these objections that colleagues have just made. For example. Why does the ruling coalition and government representatives not mention what the Criminal Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe, the UN Convention against Corruption, the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and so on commit us to? Furthermore, I think it is necessary to explain that the elements contained in this law now exist in terms of what are called an economic offense and a commercial offense, which is decided and resolved by a trade court. Serbia needs to explain to the public that European legislation does not recognise these concepts, therefore, that it does not recognise the concept of an economic violation, and that it is necessary to obtain it through these legal texts with those conventions and those mentioned attributes of European law. I also personally object to you for not reacting immediately after any of these delays in order for the public in Serbia to be fully informed, which is why it is necessary for such laws to be passed, which is why it is necessary for our legislation to be matched with EU legislation. I'd like to make one observation that has both legal and historical attributes. It is true that the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia had legislation that recognized the criminal responsibility of legal persons, or legal persons, in the legal literature, but that is quite different from what we are discussing today. It was a criminal responsibility, and this is some kind of responsibility for the crimes committed, where we should not discuss the concept of wine, the existence of wine, but the objective responsibility of the legal person for the damage that has been done, and to obtain what is called a business offense or an economic offense. Finally, one remark on what counterpart Krasic said earlier, it was very funny, that the death penalty was imposed for legal persons, but also in legal history and in current legal practice there is the liquidation of the company, i.e. the liquidation of the legal person, and in the legal literature we find the concept – he and he handed the keys to the trade court. So, what counterpart Krasic called a death penalty for a legal person and how it exists both in legal history and in current legal practice. I thank you for your attention, and I would like to get a similar explanation from the government's representatives, so that we have complete information on the necessity of adopting such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4441	Thank you, Professor Rangelovic. Mr Milan Nikolic, Mr Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4442	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I am reporting on the amendment and I support the previous MPs who have argued that there cannot be a legal person's responsibility unless there is a criminal responsibility for the responsible person. They explained it right. I'd look back on the next one. If the law is based on the responsibilities of the responsible person, the law should specify the powers to determine the liability of the criminal person. This would be due to practice, I am not a lawyer, but it is necessary to clarify and add the following – to define, that it is related to the activity for which the legal person is registered. What if the responsible person commits a crime in an act for which the legal person is not registered? It is therefore necessary to add – 'yes in the context of registered work'. What happens if in a legal person we have a superior authority issuing orders to a responsible person to do a job that is not within the scope of a registered activity? Is it then the supervisory authority, it can be the Governing Board, the Assembly, are they also criminally responsible and are legal persons subject to responsibilities? I don't know if this can be classified now, but because of the practice and interpretation in practice, it would be worth being defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4443	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to draw attention to a fact that was very well spoken of by my distinguished predecessor. I'm really trying to understand the intensities of those who wrote the bill and figure out what they were actually trying to achieve by this bill. In the light of the Bill's proposal, among other things, the following sentence reads: "The responsibility of the legal person for crimes is a new institute in the modern legal system and its existence is necessary in the fight against economic and organised crime. For example. Legal persons involved in various activities are often involved in the conduct of the trafficking of persons (transport, provision of services, intermediation in employment... ). This requires the creation of a legal possibility to process legal persons for criminal offences. 'Mrs. Malovic, imagine that someone on JAT's plane smuggles in a human being, a woman, a child, a man, doesn't matter, like a human trafficking. Would you go on to liquidate the entire JAT? You need to take care of one thing here. First, in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, already now and without this law, it is impossible to exist as a registered company which, for example, deals with human trafficking, which deals with prostitution, the sale of intoxicating funds, etc. You don't need this law. Already, such a company cannot be registered. He asks the question – what if a person commits a crime within a legal person who is registered for something completely different than committing crimes? Why would you go to the termination of that legal entity if it otherwise carries out a fully regular activity registered with the competent authority? What is the meaning of this law, especially in a situation where we have already turned your attention, that a legal person can be held accountable even if there is no criminal responsibility for the person responsible. I'm really trying to figure out what you, or those who wrote the bill, were going to say, but that's not going to happen to me. I would ask you to explain at the beginning of this debate what the meaning of these solutions is. I draw your attention again, it is easiest to write in the light of the bill's proposal that it is necessary to pass the law because of the EU's approach, but the EU is far away. If you pass this law, you will give it to judges, prosecutors, lawyers here in the Republic of Serbia. I ask you -- how these people here, living in the Republic of Serbia, who are trained in certain legal traditions, will be able to apply this law. That'll be impossible in advance. This law, either remains a dead letter in the paper, or will have to change anytime soon or will in practice experience deformities, because courts and prosecutors will not - be able to apply it in the form it was written.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4445	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. On the basis of Article 100, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic is talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4446	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to use my parliamentary right, based on an article. In 225 and 226, I request explanations from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education in particular, as well as to draw attention to Members of the Education Committee, that Mrs Jorge's amendment lowers the threshold to 45 points for students who are on the budget – to continue their studies as regular students still on the budget, and those who have been self-financing and who have more than 60 points, that only 20% be selected to continue studying as budgetary students. We believe that, although we welcome the decision to bring that threshold down to 45 points for the year, that students do not lose a year, that they are given the opportunity to make up for failure, but they must bear certain responsibility and consequences for their failure, and all those who have 60 points simply have to be on the budget, because that is what the Constitution guarantees them. It's one thing for the government to calculate, whether more of these or those, of which groups of students will have more, possibly, supporters or who will welcome their decision, and the other for the government to respect the Constitution, and finally for us here as Parliament and as MPs, because Article 71. The constitution is absolutely clear in its third position, where it says all citizens have equal access to higher education. So, the criteria that the government would choose to select these 20% of students who could continue their studies on the budget, and they showed by their work that they could move from self-financing to budget students, is completely unconstitutional, and I think that the students today, and yesterday, are strike, strike and protest with a lot of arguments that something like this doesn't happen. I've come out now to comment on this, although this law is not on the agenda. I hope we have it tomorrow, during tomorrow, but there is still time for the government to reconsider its position, as well as the competent assembly board and, above all, to look from the point of view of the constitutionality whether the decision is correct. I wish that all students could always be on the budget and the SRS, indeed, thinks that at least in the first year of the study everyone can enroll, but later we have to reward those worth, and those who do not work must, after they are given the opportunity to rebuild the year, bear those financial consequences as well. So this doesn't contribute to those hardworking students, nor does it bother them to work anymore, and I think it's a major blow to their parents' budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4447	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. I hope, Mr. Buha, you won't mind if I give Mrs. Secretary my word. Thank you. The word has a minister of justice in the Serbian government, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4448	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, before I give an explanation on these previous three amendments and on the third amendment we are now discussing, I must first state that I do not have any reference to the calls addressed to my account regarding the giving of arguments. That's what I'll always do and I think my conduct last week and this week about the bill's debate, in principle and in particular, is denying it. In fact, you've all had the opportunity to see that during this week, when we discussed the details, I was present here, giving reasons for the amendment, and I will continue to do so, I consider it my obligation as a legislator of this law. As regards the first amendment, I will refer to the experiences of other countries and international organisations, the problem of criminal liability of legal persons, in fact the responsibilities of legal persons for crimes, and I will quote Article 2. The UN Convention against Corruption, signed by the country, and ratified by this parliament. It is said in point 2 – independence is the legal principles of the State of the Contracting Party, the responsibility of legal persons can be criminal, civil or administrative. The Criminal Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe, which our country has also signed, and has ratified, in Article 18, which speaks of legal persons' responsibilities, in paragraph 2, says – each signator will take the necessary measures to ensure that the legal person is responsible when the lack of supervision or control by a natural person is allowed to commit a criminal offence, in favour of that legal person. The country's recommendations to fight corruption of the Council of Europe, known as GRECO, in Recommendation number 18, which is mandatory for our country, said GRECO recommended that the necessary laws be adopted to speed up the determination of legal persons' responsibilities for criminal offences. They further say – legal persons are responsible for crimes which, on their own behalf or for their own account, have executed any natural person who is in charge of that legal person, and on the basis of the powers he has to represent that legal person or authority to make a decision on behalf of the legal person or authority to exercise control within that legal person. It is also said that GRECO reminds the Republic of Serbia there are no legal provisions establishing a civil, criminal or administrative responsibility of a legal person for crimes. That was the reason and need of our country to pass a law like this. What we mentioned in the reasoning of the law regarding the chronology of our legal history, that it existed, in Article 16, was just a reminder of the chronologicality that this area was once arranged in our country. As regards the amendment to Article 7(2), that it may be a legal person responsible if the proceedings against a natural person have been rejected or suspended, I will tell you what cases these are. When refused, these are cases where pardon or amnesty occurred, or when the non-accountability of the natural person was established. When the procedure is suspended, these are situations when the death of a natural person, i.e. the defendant, or when he's on the run. I'm going to give you a plastic example of why we decided to pass a law like this. We're all witnessing events involving environmental pollution, for example in Pancheva, related to the "Rafineria" in Pancheva. No one's going to convince me there's an exclusive responsibility for a natural person. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4449	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. On the basis of article 100, Mr. Milorad Buh wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic. But, please, make a deal faster, because the order still says – first Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you could hear from Mrs. Snezana Malovic that in quoting these conventions, too, there is no difference between criminal responsibility and legal person's responsibility for crimes. So it's the same institute, although the bill goes in this direction that criminal responsibility is not the same as the legal person's responsibility for crimes. Mrs. Malovic, one of the Greeks who boasted that the island of Rhodes had jumped far away, someone said to him, "Hick Rhodes, hick salta! "Here's Rhodes, jump here. Now, I'm telling you, you don't need this law or the agency to fight this crime or that crime, or the various institutions you've created since 2001 to fight organized crime. It's not organized crime at all and crime and corruption of phenomena the state faces only at the beginning of the 21st century. It was in the 19th century and in the 18th century and before, and the states fought against these monsters without your agencies and without your law on the responsibility of the legal persons for crimes, and without the various innovations you have put into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia since 2001. Don't fight crime and corruption to mystify! Don't wrap it up with some veil of mystery, that no one living can understand what it is, when it comes to fighting crime and corruption, except for ministers sitting in the government and those who wrote them draft laws. Mrs. Malovic, in every country, a man doesn't need to be some great lawyer to understand. There's a court, there's a prosecution, there's a police. There are three basic instruments and three basic levers to fight organized crime, if you will. If you won't, you can start another thousand and one agency. You can write another 1001 laws like this, nothing in Serbia will change unless the government has the will to deal with crime and corruption. If you own this will, here, I now guarantee you with the existing judicial system of the Republic of Serbia and without agency, which you intend to establish, to fight organised crime, and without special courts, and without special prosecutions, and without these strong laws, which have nothing to do with common sense and legal tradition, you can deal with crime and corruption. But you won't! You won't do it because you'd have to deal with the people who run this country. They're the main criminals, corruptionists and mobsters that exist in this country. By forming agencies you just want to mask crime and corruption, to create some illusion that Serbian citizens think – here, the Serbian government proposes to the agency, will now fight organised crime. You can't fight organized crime until you pass a law on an anti-organized crime agency. You can't sanction trafficking in white slaves, prostitution, drug trafficking, if you don't pass law on legal persons' responsibility for crimes. Mrs. Malovic, it's not true, you can, you just need to be brave. If you are willing, crime and corruption in Serbia will disappear as if they were never without agencies and without these laws, but you don't want them to.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4451	Mr. Buha, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to you for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We need to look back today on a category of population that is in a state of social concern, because today is an international day to fight poverty. We need to ask the Government, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the data on how many donations were sent by the international community, international humanitarian organisations and other organisations, NGOs, above all, to what extent we received the funds on this basis. According to data that we could read on the Ministry of Finance website, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy from 2001 to 2007, they gave a total of a sultry review of the data, so we can just say about one summary review, a sum of 3.5 billion euros that the Republic of Serbia has received on a fixed category of population that we need to socialise. I ask the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to inform us in writing – how much did we get per year and per purpose? So when we get the funds, we get them for a specific purpose. Furthermore, I am interested – how many of these funds, out of the 3.5 billion euros, have received the Commissioner for Refugees and for what purpose? I also ask the Commissioner for Refugees to provide us with information on this on behalf of the Commissioner – for what purposes is it invested and to see the purpose of these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4453	Thank you, Mr. Buha. I ask the service to refer the questions of MP Milorad Buha to the relevant ministries as a parliamentary question. It's Mr. Spasojevic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I highly respect the presence of our minister on boards and here, her presence is truly extraordinary. I'm not satisfied with this explanation. I will now link Article 6 and Article 7 – '''The liability of the legal person referred to in Article 1 shall exist even if, because of the absence of supervision or control by the responsible person, the responsibility of the legal person by the natural person acting under the supervisory and control of the responsible person is possible. ''There is therefore the possibility of missing control in one company, and a natural person commits the crime and demands responsibility and legal personality. Article 7 says, "The responsibility of a legal person is based on the guilt of the responsible person. ''The position of 2nd clearly states: ''Under the conditions laid down in Article 6 of this Act, the legal person shall be liable for the criminal offence of the responsible person and if the criminal offence against the responsible person has been suspended or the charge has been dropped. ''Maybe you, Madam Minister, are right, but then here, perhaps a technical mistake, should have stood – under the condition of Article 6(2) of this Law, a legal person is responsible for a criminal offence and a natural person and if a criminal case against a responsible person has been suspended or the charge is rejected. That kind of thing could exist in practice, but I can't accept that the case against the responsible person is suspended for a reason of incompetence, and then, again, the legal person answers. If a person is ineligible, the procedure is suspended, that means he can't even answer his legal face. Why would that fit? It's because she's received an unaccountable person at work. To receive certain medical examinations, there is an opportunity to prove whether the person is able to do the job. Only if you thought that in the aftermath of the crime, the person becomes ineligible – I can accept it. I understood your message, but then it explains why you rejected the amendments should clearly stand for it, not some legal interference. What are these legal interferences? I have warned that there are persons who own certain companies, who are not fah and, indeed, I cannot accept that in this way a legal person can respond. I understood your message, but there was room, perhaps, in attitude 2, to place it, if it remains the responsibility of the natural person, and the responsibility of the responsible person is suspended, to remain responsible, if that can be the case at all. But, of course, from everything we've said, my previous colleagues, Mr. Peric and Mr. Martinovic, can't accept that a legal person can be held accountable for the crime of a responsible person, especially in a situation where proceedings against him have been suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4455	Thank you, Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a law on the liability of legal persons. Allow me, before I begin on this amendment, one small remark. On today, the world day of combating poverty, we heard two frantic news this morning, one is that in the state of Serbia in 2008, there are 10,000 more users of folk cuisine, and there would be more, it says, material resources, and the other news came from the mouth of the government agency against poverty, which says, literally, that it does not know from where poverty in Serbia was halved from 14% to 6 or 7 percent. There are two things here: either these public kitchens have started to use rich or, indeed, the government has lost every archaic on these'socials', lost a compass and doesn't know what it is. But that's probably what the people are going to give their judgment about. Here, let me proceed with the amendment to Article 8. It's a bill of law. Article 8 is a continuation of this farce on legal persons' responsibilities for criminal offences. Therefore, Article 8 treats three categories, i.e. three legal situations relating to termination or status change of legal persons. The first category is: if the legal person ceases to exist before the criminal proceedings are closed; second category: if the legal person ceases to exist after the judicial end of the proceedings; third category: if the legal person has changed his legal form after the offence has been committed. Now let's see about the legal consequences of that responsibility. It may occur that the criminal proceedings take a little longer, as is the case in our legislation, so a legal follower comes instead of this first legal person, and then this other legal person ceases to exist, so another legal follower appears. And what's going on here? The third legal person in this chain will feel the consequences of the criminal liability of that first legal person. Imagine, too, that this third legal person, as a legal follower, has acquired that property as a security holder, a security supplier. Then there's a legal mix-up, so it's actually best to accept this amendment. It's simply where this legal situation is solved. That is the case in these two cases: if the legal person ceases to exist after the proceedings have been brought to an end, as well as if the legal person changes the legal form in which he was operating. According to this article's proposal, it also fits. Responsibility is exclusively a subjective category. The responsibility is tied to a particular person, to a specific perpetrator, and it takes the guilt of the perpetrator. The legal consequences of criminal responsibility should only be affected by the perpetrator. And besides, he's losing his legal sense. However, it is obvious that there is a desire here to connect what cannot be connected. In the end, you're inclined to connect what you can never connect. I'd like to connect you to that saying by Reverend Nikolai Velimirovic, who says, "History knows two types of heroes: those who sacrifice their lives to their ideals and those who sacrifice other people's lives to their ideals." You're the other ones. In fact, you want to sacrifice the lives of Serbian citizens with your ideals. You tried to sacrifice our life and our president, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, with his ideals, but he won't be able to, gentlemen. I think that soon, Dr Vojislav Seselj will return to Serbia, after the defeat of the 'Hasca case', that he will defeat you, as well as these'sprays' who support you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4457	Mr. Zoran Krasic answered the words, so Mr. Martinovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4458	Of course, I'll just talk about the amendment. Since I'm a decent man by nature, Cosic, look at what you wrote in article 12. (I apologize for this, since Mr. Cosic and I have known each other a long time ago, for 20 years. He says, "I'm a legal person for a crime... ". So that's proof that the legal person committed a crime, as I interpret it, and that's how you wrote it. We'll talk about that amendment a little later. As far as amendments to Article 8 are concerned, it is perfectly normal that, after the error of the first article, it goes continuously. Now let me explain this to you on a nice case: A pretty blonde, as a director in a large company, where there are 5,000 directors or 200 directors, according to the criteria set out in Article 5(2), may be a responsible person in a legal person, whether on the basis of some legal act or, as you said here, in fact responsible for doing some work. And as part of the legal person's business, say, closes a contract, and no one knows that contract is concluded, with some close friend of theirs. Let's say, a lease contract. I initiate the procedure, it is found that the lady, as director, overstepped the director's powers, made a harmful contract, allowed her friend to put 24,000 euros in her pocket each year, a ten-year contract -- 240,000 euros, and the legal person has no idea what happened. He absolutely doesn't know. They would never close such a deal. According to this concept of yours, responsibility for the crime, and the lady, she will bear a legal face. What do you mean, "no"? The lease agreement is within the scope of the company's activities, the legal person. So we've defined that a person inside a legal person is responsible, we've defined that a crime has been committed - abuse of official office, to get out of it, and now it's a legal person's answer. You say Article 6. And Article 6 says that a legal person is responsible for a criminal act that, in the context of his affairs (these are the jobs, that legal person) makes a responsible person responsible in order to benefit a legal person. And the intention of a legal person, and the benefit of a legal person, is that they have that business space. That's why the contract was concluded to allow a friend to earn money and get an exclusive location in the center. That's what this is about. I can hypothetically handle a million situations for you. I can even go so far as the legal director doesn't want to have an official driver, so he goes on his own, makes an accident, so he leaves the crash site, closes the deal in the next town, and his firm does a big job. So it's a crime - escape from the scene, was it in the function of closing a contract and benefiting a legal person? These are some hypothetical situations that can happen. Why would the SRS now be responsible for a non-existent contract? He took Tomislav Nikolic's seal, went and signed the contract, owed himself, no one lives in the party, said "I return that money, as soon as I get the mandates after the election"; got a hundred and a few million and instead of returning the 50, he says "it goes in the long term". And now the bills are coming! Well, we'll come to the subject of amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties, and we'll open up the topic of both DS and their financing and their accounts. And keep your guard, for you are taken, cursed. You said in Articles 6 or 7, it doesn't matter in which, that there are opportunities to exclude the legal person's responsibility for the crime of the responsible person. So you told Mr. Spasojevic in response, and other cases that exclude responsibility. One of those cases is immunity. Immunity - and cannot be handled. Right? That's right! We're going with another variant now. Hypothetically, Dragan Gilas is in charge of the DS for signing and that he is an accountant. And now he's in some position where he has immunity, he can't be prosecuted for what he did while he was in the DS. The fact that you're spinning your head that he didn't do anything, tie it to the cat's tail. I say, hypothetically. He won't! There won't be any proceedings against him, because he's protected by immunity. He will not be held accountable for what he did as a responsible person of the DS, and the DS will not fall under the influence of this law. The mayor of Belgrade has no immunity? When did you change that? (President: Please allow the speaker to express his opinion. ) Here, let's get an MP for Bozovic. Bozovic has immunity, he is an MP, and he flies with Mike Rakic and Sutanovac, and this karate security and these things, and these exchange offices in Montenegro etc. And it's all connected to the DS system. It's tied up, you know that. Now we go with the procedure, he's got immunity, how's he gonna answer? End of story. Martinovic, did you see how they ran, they got into the story. So they have a view of this law. Now the public had a chance to hear. So they have a view of this law, they know very well why they're doing this law, and, here's the case, they've shown where it can be applied, and where it can't be applied. Look how master I am. You, in article 8, have prescribed something that goes beyond the scope of criminal law and responsibility for a crime, to be more precise, since this matter is responsible for a crime. Do we agree on that – responsibility for the crime? The integral part of that responsibility is: work, perpetrator, wine, accountability. Let's skip wine and accountability for a legal person, because it's imaginary, further, sanctions – it's all in one unity regarding criminal law. You've torn him up here. How much did you tear that up? It's quite enough that there's an opportunity to shut down a legal person, just as long as you need to punish a legal person. In theory, it's possible for DS to push someone into a company that's making that break! The D.A. comes in, after he finishes his job with a legal face. Legal face – 'neither onion food nor onion smells'. A legal person should be interpreted not only as being able to bear rights and obligations. For a legal person, it is characteristic that, first of all, he guarantees his property. There's nothing else legal to guarantee. A legal person can also be formed to gain income and to have a non-profit activity. How many organizations have a legal personality that have no profit? It's not their purpose to make money. It's their purpose to make good friends, fishermen, hunters, sailors. You're the one who brought it up now, because you want to seduce some order. This won't apply to fishermen. We know who this is going to apply to. We will explain this in the last amendments to the public – that this is a means of disciplining the like. So similar, if you want to be on this side, you know, we have a law like this where we can set you up with a non-accountable person who's going to commit a crime, and that's going to be the basis for applying the penalty! So you said punishments, paroles, security measures; you just haven't put in the "must cure of alcoholism" security measure yet. How would a legal person be treated for alcoholism? I'm a little paraphrasing for you to come out a little bit more, so the public can hear what was the main idea of this concept of yours. I get the impression now, it doesn't even matter the legal face, because you're in article 8. The activity of the company is the activity of the legal person is something that defines them – the ability to respond to obligations, primarily by means of property etc. You say, if the person responsible in that legal person has done something, that responsibility for the work of that person, which has nothing to do with the new follower, is transferred to the follower. That's what you're going to justify with a phantom-- companies, which, the fact is, exist, work five or six days, wash some money, then shut down, and no one lives knows where they are or how they are. This isn't the law, you can't fight these companies this way. You have other instruments for that fight. If you say it's the reason for this law, then I know it's a hoax.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4459	One minute longer, but you're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4460	I'll get back to you, Mr. Nikola.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4461	Thank you, Mr. Krasic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Martinovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 225, I would like to inform the Members of Parliament of one drastic illogicality contained in Article 8. It's a bill of law. You see, Mrs Malovic, without some great legal wisdom, what is written in Article 8: ''If a legal person ceases to exist before the criminal proceedings end, fines, security measures and confiscation of property benefits can be given to a legal person who is his legal follower, if the legal person who ceased to exist has previously been found responsible. 'Well, it wasn't established, because it didn't end the criminal procedure. What Mr. Krasic said is true. You not only introduce the principle of objective responsibility, you introduce the principle of two-degree objective responsibility, not only is it not enough, now the legal person is responsible for the actions of the responsible person as a natural person, but the legal follower of that legal person who should be responsible for the actions of his responsible person. You have laid the principle of objective responsibility to this extent broadly that, simply, that responsibility in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia will no longer know any limits. No one else will be able to live there, who has committed a crime, who is responsible for this crime, who is a legal follower, etc. All you had to do was write that the legal follower of a legal follower was responsible for the crime of that original legal person, who, again, should be responsible for the actions of his responsible person. And too wide is the principle of objective responsibility. I'm really well-intentioned. You're going to have a lot of trouble applying this law. It's an extremely big problem. Mrs. Malovic, that was my first well-intentioned remark. Another well-intentioned remark – I hold in my hands a book called "About the State, the Foundation of a Legal Theory" by Slobodan Jovanovic, the third revised and updated edition, Belgrade, the Gece Kona publishing bookshop, 1922. So, Mrs. Malovic, here is to see your colleagues from the DS, all that one good lawyer needs to know about what the state is, what the state authorities are, what are physical, and what legal persons, when and under what circumstances legal entities are responsible for the works done, etc., among other things, is contained in this book. When someone from the EU comes to you, some smart-ass who's not a lawyer at all, but who knows, an electrician engineer, etc., tells you that you have to do something, this or that, you tell him -- here, find in the book of an eminent legal theorist, a man who spoke more worldly languages... (Chairman: time. )......................................................................................................... who traveled around the world more than Ollie Rehn and Javier Solana combined, if you find answers to those demands here, here, the Republic of Serbia is ready to respond to these demands.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4463	Thank you. I realize there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure and that you used this time, but it wasn't a bad thing to listen. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr Krasic, so Mr Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4464	Mr. Novakovic, I know you share my opinion, you're a good lawyer and you understand these things. I know it's hard for you not to be in the audience right now to get involved in this debate. I must say, for the public's sake, a member of the 12th bill is a very interesting provision. (My Bozovic came, I'm glad. ) Article 12 says this: Types of criminal sanctions. ''A legal person shall be charged with a criminal offence (though it is not a clear legal person, a criminal offence, but come on) may give the following criminal sanctions: 1) punishment; 2) probation; 3) security measure. ''The next member is said to be fines – fines and death, i.e. the termination of a legal person, then divided and so on. You can see for yourself that in this initial sentence for this article, that the 'legal person for a crime', the wording is the same as in the special part of the Criminal Code, it says, 'I'll do for... 'And then they describe the shops,'speaks,'so there's a punishment. This is proof that you can't, by that game of words, conceal the essence. So between the claims – that this law introduces criminal responsibility for legal persons, and the claim – that this law introduces the responsibility of the legal person for crimes, it is just a single game of words, and it comes down to the same. Why does it come down to the same thing? To cloud the essence. From the SRS' point of view, there is no problem in changing, for example, the Law on Economic Crimes. The Act on Economic Crimes is amended, some new provisions are inserted, or to be more precise, provisions 155 are amended. The law, from the material area, concerning business, business, etc., in criminal provisions, at the end of the Law, to provide for some new behaviours and new actions as a commercial offence. But you chose the worst possible path, the absolute worst possible path. You read us some parts of those international acts just now. Those parts you read to us don't give you the right to do this. It's an interesting thing just a conditional conviction of a legal person – if you're good for two years, you won't be charged for this, it doesn't matter. It's not working, guys, but it's really not going. Absolutely, this can't be compared to that. You are still at the heart of the criminal responsibility of the legal person, because it is very difficult to talk about what could be the basis of the legal person's responsibility, that the person responsible has committed a crime, and in criminal law, the principle of individualization applies, not collectiveization. How will you apply the principle of individualization of punishment to a legal person? Well, they have some provisions. If they behave properly, they can be reduced if they range from this range to that range. But that's crazy, people. That's completely insane. Come on, change the Business Crimes Act. Look, there's another very important thing. A legal person can answer materially, indisputably, and only materially, and when you shut it down, it fits materially, because you forbid it to perform its work, to achieve etc. It's a civil responsibility. But you have to understand one thing - you can't answer a legal face for a crime. Here's what the resistance knows. They're, you know, how, like, first Milivojevic, then Homen, so Konstantinovic, so this one, well, you can't catch an organization, of course. Here's a classic example. I know he's been hooking up with this, or that chipplic guy, one of them's been hooking up with this. It can't be, this variant isn't possible! Watch out, you're pulling some stuff now. It's quite clear what your intention is. Your intention is, let's say, France, that has this, but it doesn't apply, that you know, they've introduced it a long time ago, but they're grasping their heads, because the judges say this is inapplicable. This is contrary to the fundamental principle of law, which is the principle of justice. Just to remind you that you asked for lustration in time and you said it was because of abuse, so it's all legal. But it was an abuse of the law, and so when the one from Kragujevac comes out, the president says – we literally applied the law, or Gordan when he says "my MP, it has to do this", they have to keep in mind what's above, which covers all of it. So the intention to apply the law must be just, just, not corrupt, not misused. You put something in the system here, you put it in the law. You've predicted, practically, criminal sanctions for a legal person. Are these criminal sanctions – punishment, a fine, as a criminal sanction, parole, criminal sanctions, and the security measure is also a form of criminal sanctions for a legal person. This won't help you fight organized crime, but whoever applies this law... And I doubt that any judge will be caught applying this law, I doubt that anyone will apply this law, because you see a corrupt intention, a corrupt motive, to pass a law like this. Here, I'll leave you with the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4465	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Mr Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, criminal law has long been known that criminal sanctions are not their own purpose. Criminal sanctions are for the purpose of preventing crime – general and special. It's past time, so they thought in the Old Age, that punishment itself is a purpose, that the purpose of punishment is revenge. It's contained in that Bible principle-- eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. That's what the German philosopher Hegel thought, that punishment had no other purpose than to retaliate against the one who committed some crime. But, in modern criminal law, both in theory and in legislation, that principle of retribution has long been rejected, as a purpose of giving criminal sanctions. The purpose of criminal sanctions is not to commit crimes in the future. How? By the way, so-called. General and special crime prevention. The general prevention of crime means – other people see that some evil has happened to the perpetrator, went to prison, paid the fine, and then those other people who did not commit any crime to abstain in the future, so that they would not come into the situation so that some criminal sanctions would be applied to them. The special prevention of crime is, therefore, when you give a criminal a physical person a criminal sentence – because of the evil he suffered, he will continue to refrain from committing crimes in order not to get into that situation again; in order not to go to prison, pay a fine, etc. So this is the purpose of criminal sanctions – general and special prevention of crime. How do you intend to achieve the purpose of any criminal sanctions you have provided for in Article 12? The bill, when a legal person is not like him to apply any purpose of crime prevention – whether general or special. Criminal sanctions cannot be imposed on a legal person because they do not achieve the purpose to be achieved, unless you wish to return to the old principle – that criminal sanctions are the purpose of retribution. But in the Old Ages, at least they were more consistent than you. There they used retribution against those who truly committed a crime, and you now apply retribution to those who corresponded to the principle of objective responsibility. We all know that a legal person can't commit a crime, but here we are in law on legal fiction, that he can, however, by being responsible for the actions of his responsible natural person. You've completely mixed up some basic criminal law institutes. In the bill of law, you have put something that has never been in a criminal theory before or in legislation. It is simply pointless to say and to write in the bill – any criminal sanctions will be imposed against the legal person. It's impossible. By definition, it's impossible. You can liquidate one legal person, ban its existence, etc., but to give him criminal sanctions is simply impossible. Mrs. Malovic, you must come from one basic principle. There is a fundamental difference between a legal person and a natural person. A natural person has a biological subjectivity, has consciousness, has the will, suffers fear of evil happening to him, so he refrains from committing a crime, etc. Legally speaking, that's impossible. The whole concept of criminal liability of a legal person or, as you say otherwise, the legal person's responsibilities for crimes are mixed. It's standing on one leg. It's enough to blow the first breeze in court practice, and that other leg's going down. None of that law if you adopt it, I have no doubt that you will, will not be in practice, except in the heads of judges, public prosecutors and lawyers, or people who are going to be in a position to apply this law, create complete confusion, to make people forget everything they've learned in law school. It is not the essence of the Bologna Process that you in the heads of the lawyers, who finished law school 10, 20, 30 years ago, make 'Tabula Razu', to wipe out everything they knew and to say, well, right now there is some new tendency, some new achievement, but only from the moment we came to power, that is, when we started to apply that so-called. The Bologne Convention. What they wrote about the criminal responsibility of Toma Zivanovic, Slobodan Jovanovic, what were written by famous Italian, French, German theorists, what do we care, did not live in 1999 when the Bologna Convention was adopted, did not live in 2005 when we passed the Law on Higher Education, according to this, allegedly, Bologna Convention, and we did not live in 2008 when someone remembered, someone very smart, that a legal person could also be responsible for the crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4467	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Before I give my word to Mr. Krasic, Mr. Jovan Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4468	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Article 226 I would like to inform both citizens and the National Assembly in which the ruling majority refers to this problem that has arisen when it comes to the rise in the price of gas. The Industry Committee, which has only four members of the Committee on Industry, has now begun, with two members of the opposition. Minister Petar Skundric is here. The ruling majority does not care at all about this problem that they have now opened by increasing the price of gas. The opposition's representative is chaired by the Committee's session and this is one topic that really needs to be discussed. In addition, I made a request this morning and repeat it here to the Vice-President of the National Assembly – call on the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic, to come to the Assembly, obviously that the ministers who attend the Committee's meetings cannot give adequate answers and cannot remove this mood, this mistrust created in the Assembly towards the policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic set up six key elements in his exhibition when the government was inauguration: the definition of Serbia's European future, non-accepting Kosovo and Metohija independence, the necessity of strengthening the economy, strengthening the government's social responsibility, strengthening the fight against crime and corruption and respect for international law. At the first point, he said the government's goal is to speed up the economic and other reforms envisioned by the agreement, at the end of the year and early next year, for Serbia to gain candidate status. That first promise wasn't fulfilled. We heard from the European Union that the question is whether Serbia will get candidate status next year. The transitional agreement has not been defrosted, and Serbia, as we will discuss it, has begun to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Another point promised, not accepting Kosovo's independence, has been said that Serbia will continue diplomatic activities aimed at recognising Kosovo's independence as few countries as possible, and also some of our neighbours have recognised Kosovo's independence, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has not taken a stand on the Eulex but is being taken by other state authorities. And the second promise from the government program is not fulfilled. The need to strengthen the economy – a broken concession, a dinar fell, concluded a very controversial contract with the "Fiyat" and a number of other things that are controversial here. Strengthening the government’s social responsibility – is the promise of action, pension fulfilled? We're witnessing an increase in gas prices, a phone. So we have a very bad social situation. Strengthening the fight against crime and corruption -- all relevant factors said Serbia fell to a much lower place in the fight against crime and corruption. When it comes to respecting international law, Mr Cvetkovic explained to us why it was refused to approach the International Court of Justice suit against countries that recognised Kosovo's independence, but resorted to asking for an opinion aimed at recognising Kosovo's independence as few as possible, and we see a large number of countries approach it. Vice President, please have Mr Mirko Cvetkovic come to the National Assembly and answer all these questions, and you invite the ruling majority's representative to come to the Industry Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4469	According to my information, the O.R. is full. Mr. Palalic, from your presentation, I can only conclude that you misused the right I gave you, so please, I'm quite surprised, I didn't expect you. Don't do that again. It's Mr. Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4470	Mr Nikola, before I go on the amendment, I must say that most of the parliaments have the whole government and all the ministers in the hall while the meeting of the National Assembly, regardless of how the parliament is organised, whether there is a assembly or Senate, and every moment they are at their disposal, not because of the MPs, but because of the public, to answer all the questions that are of public importance, and to lure the attention of all citizens. The fact that the hall is full and full of opposition representatives is only proof that the opposition works better and that those who keep quiet are obstructing. To go back to the amendment, since this amendment is also quite inspiring, regardless of this wing of the window that's pummeling. Article 13. The bill is a provision on types of punishment. It is said: "The legal person can be charged with the following punishment: (1) fine; (2) termination of a legal person. '"They only express themselves as the main punishments. It is now a termology and logic that is characteristic of criminal law, the main and secondary penalty. Mr. Buha has submitted an amendment and is requesting that paragraph 2 be deleted from this article in the position of 1st, which says: 'the termination of a legal person'. Since this has something to do with the previous member, it means that the legal person is being held for a felony, so I'd say now that he's punishing himself by "the termination of a legal person." You were just laughing. The termination of a legal person is the death of a legal person. It's a death penalty. Since it is clear to you that something is wrong, you, then, within article 18, have stated how the death penalty will be executed. This death penalty is executed by liquidation and bankruptcy. Now, if we just go back to liquidation and bankruptcy, it already exists in our legal system. In our legal system there are also these reasons that are mentioned in Article 18, just to understand what this is about. If the work of a legal person in general or to a large extent was in the function of committing crimes, so please, if you wanted to pass a law in which to punish, sanction and recognise that one enterprise or legal person, one person, multipersonally, is not important, organized as a criminal society, then we are in the field of organised crime, we are at the Code of Criminal Procedure, we are at the Criminal Code. This law is not necessary at all, it is not necessary at all! Can anyone imagine that a judge in a verdict, where he punishes the person responsible for the crime and on the basis of this responsibility for a legal person, says the sentence, so you wrote, "the termination of a legal person"?- I'm sorry. Doesn't that seem a little weird to you? It used to be a death sentence, it'll be executed with 15 bullets, etc. Now, the termination of the legal person will be carried out, how, by launching the liquidation or bankruptcy procedure. If we go back to what we talked about yesterday, the property that came out of the crime, so it wasn't just crushed, it was still turned around, so it didn't show up anymore. This is what we're telling you at the level of principle. What some recognize is their problem, absolutely. You will put everything and everything into this game: both for Kosovo and for Vojvodina, and for Montenegro, and for heating, and for electricity and for phone, all of you will put it into this game, all kinds of obstruction. I called this lady, but she's running away, but I'm sure she'll be at B92 tonight, she'll say the opposition is harassing us, she's giving us some lectures. But she won't come out here and say, "Study B" or "Study B" to explain." Let him go to the pay phone, because that's where the MP's office is, and not Studio B, that's where the citizens and the citizens go. So, you see for yourself, the solutions you're proposing are legally ridiculous and impossible. Maybe these new bolognas beat it. I don't see them defending this either. No one can defend this, people! No one can defend. Are all the legal faces equal in our space? Do they have to be equal, in terms of equal rights, equal weapons, equal under the same conditions? Then how could you rule out the responsibility of some? We've been struggling for years to put in laws the criminal responsibility of government workers, and that's over. Now there are some situations where a civil servant can answer for a crime. I don't go into criminal responsibility, it always existed. You've now ruled out the responsibility of some legal entities. You said the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government, a state body, etc., and what should we do if the crime scene is in state authorities? In the National Security Council, now in this new UBPOK, it is now completed or in another state institution, let's say, in the BIA – what if a large amount of crime is concentrated in the BIA? They're protected like bears. They can plead guilty, but the legal face isn't responding. At the level of theory you can't defend this, at the level of practice you have nothing to say. This is one piece of paper to be threatened with. Who? Anyone can be threatened by a hairdresser, and anyone who has legal status and anyone who has a current account, you can threaten. You know, I can. Go behind these hideouts, that the crime was committed within the framework of action, that there was some benefit for a legal person, etc. These are all imaginary categories. Once it starts proving it to the court, it's already an impossible mission. Can a legal person be held accountable for a crime, as you say to a responsible person, if all the individuals who are in some way in that legal person have no idea what a responsible person has done? So how did a man know that a man was a lunatic, appointed a director of a lunatic – took the seal and went to sign something. Why would a legal person be responsible for that? According to that logic, things you can shut down right now. God forbid a GSP driver makes a crash - he committed a crime, or a GSP driver beats up some passenger who harassed him. You can shut down the GSP after this. You said that whoever exercised public authority isn't responding, why isn't he answering? He who exercises public authority on the market and he is a profitable organisation, a profitable legal person. You've messed everything up. Of course, I know what's going on here, this situation that we're in is defined by Nikola Pasic, 100 years ago. He said, "It's not that you're stupid, it's that you're persistent."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4471	Thank you. Mr. Maric picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the debate on this law to draw the attention of the public, the competent authorities, on a particular case, where three legal entities, unitedly, committed more crimes and damaged the state by more than one hundred thousand euros. It's about privatization of the "Shumadi" Food and Tourism Company from the Great Plan. What is the crime? When making the assessment of capital and privatisation programmes, then company director Goran Jovic and other authorised persons did not show real but significantly reduced company assets. In particular, Goran Jovic, as an authorised person, the director of "Shumadius", provided the privatisation agency with information that the area of all "Shumadija" facilities is 1329 meters, although it is 3964 square meters. So the papers lost about 2,600 feet of surface. It sounds amazing, but then the director of the company forgot to mention the following facilities to the Privatisation Agency: Pavilion near the Old Oak Motel, otherwise the Old Oak motel is located in the company Šumadija, on the highway of Belgrade-Niš, near Markovac, then more houses and kiosks near the same facility, a complete restaurant located in the village of Trnovce, a warehouse, a slaughterhouse and a boiler room within the Šumadija restaurant, and that you do not believe the administrative building of the Šumadija company, located on the main street in the Great Plan. Thanks to this, the estimated value of the company has been reduced by 56m 975 000 dinars, so it has been offered and sold for a total of 8m660 000 220 dinars, which is slightly more than 100,000 euros. So, 100,000 euros for 3964 square meters, or 30 euros per metre. The square business space in the Great Plan is moving about, at least 500 euros per square, and crosses 1000 euros per square. What crime is seen from the following example, from one comparison – 20 meters from the management building "Sumadia" is a business space bought by the Bank "Intheza". The business space has a surface area of 100 square meters and is paid by the bank by 110,000 euros. So, 30 times the price they sell these squares to the Attending and Tourism Company. I doubt it, I don't think, that this could have been done, even there are some data that point to this, without the consent of the director of the Privatisation Agency, Mrs. Dabovic, and then the Minister of Privatisation from DS, Aleksandra Vlahovic. The deputy municipal public prosecutor in Velika Plana, Vesna Ivanovic, filed a request against Jovic to conduct an investigation, on grounds of a reasonable suspicion that he damaged more than one hundred thousand euros by abuse of his official position in the privatisation process. It all ended up with that object standing in drawers. A similar fate has been reported by 12 former company workers, who are now small shareholders, against their former director and against the new owner. The same fate, without full effect, experienced 59 applications filed by workers to the Privatisation Agency, in which they indicated where the law was violated. What I'm saying is that only the adoption of the law represents nothing if that law is not respected. When this crime took place, there were laws that prevented it, there were laws that banned robbery privatisation, cowboy privatisation, but the problem was that these laws were not respected and applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4473	Thank you. It was Mr. Martinovic's word on the amendment. You have two minutes, MP group of SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4474	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all what counterpart Zoran Krasic said about the fact that the termination of a legal person is, in fact, a death penalty that is pronounced by a natural person, that it is forbidden by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it all stands. However, in Article 13(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: The bill hides one solution that is extremely unfair. If you give a legal person, as a punishment, the termination of a legal person, the question arises what will happen to employees in such a legal person who have absolutely no responsibility for the crime committed. You will leave these people on the street, you will leave them with no means of existence, and they have nothing to do with the perpetrator, and in particular, they have not committed any crime themselves, and yet they will suffer a certain penalty, because they will be prevented from doing their job. Imagine leaving without the bread of a driver, a cleaning lady, a physical worker, etc. Just because, for example, the headmaster or the elder of the body, or the legal person, committed a crime, you punish the legal person as a punishment for ending a legal person. In all laws, there must be some measure of justice. It is difficult to achieve that the law is absolutely just, but still, if you delete that minimum of justice in one law, the question arises whether it is even a law. You're actually putting the full responsibility for the crime you've committed on people who don't have any responsibility for the employees of that legal person. All the harmful consequences of the fact that someone has committed a crime, in the extreme line, will have ordinary people doing their job completely safe and fully in accordance with the law, which you will leave without bread, because you will liquidate a legal person who is allegedly responsible for the fact that the person responsible in that legal person has committed a crime. So the solution is extremely unfair and is absolutely not in the spirit of socialist internationalism called for by the ruling coalition and DS and SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4475	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm very surprised the government didn't accept this amendment of mine, but what is it? Before I start talking about the amendment, I'd like to say a few words about one other thing. All MPs who did not attend this morning's meeting today were denied the great pleasure of hearing an extraordinary lecture from an excellent acquaintance and international and domestic criminal rights, to hear a man from whom there was indeed much to be heard and learned. Where good luck is that this ruling coalition is a little more present at the National Assembly meetings, since Mr. Martinovic comes out often for this pay phone, you would learn a lot. According to this bill, according to the laws so far and according to the proposals of the laws on the agenda, it can be concluded that we are rapidly approaching Europe, so to speak, running, in order to Europeanise Serbian legislation, in order to Europeanise Serbia, in order to wash the European powders and detergents – and when we knock on their door, they already said it would be in ten years. Instead of fighting for the European standard, instead of fighting the exploitation of workers in companies that this government privatised, ask what they are and how much regular wages they pay, and receiving from these people. How much of a mobbing is in such businesses, how much a worker can say anything without taking sanctions after that from the one he bought, especially if the bosses are from some gray mile, who helped you hard at the Bulldozer Revolution, let's say, some Peconi etc. The moment they mentioned his name in a negative context, he was given a booklet, not to go to work to get it, but to bring it to work. Instead of fighting for bigger pensions, not declaratively as the United Pensions Party fought, 70% will be the pay, pension, by October. However, they didn't say which October, and as I see it will be until next, if they don't promise again until next October. It was 15%, and now it's down to 14%, and it's still missing to say when. About the time that Limburg moon was introduced into the Serbian calendar. In the fight for European and quasi-European laws, we are going in haste and wrong and wrong. The introduction of Hague justice, as Mr Martinovic said, is, above all, wrong and wrong, but you will not be adhering to this Europe. The introduction of collective responsibility, while The Hague justice and The Hague tribunal have introduced so-called The term 'joint criminal enterprise', so if they told you that you're in a joint criminal enterprise with people you don't have to know at all, that you've never met, that you've never had any communication with, neither you nor your loved ones, you're in that "joint" and collectively respond. The command responsibility, also, child of court practice, is increasingly visible and reflected in the proposals for the laws that we are making, which you are proposing. Of course, you have most of it. However, most of them are not here now, most come when to vote and then be ordered or written, many should be written – press the green button, press the red button, they do it and then come out, and they've done a big state job. The legal person has no biological subjectivity. A legal person has no will, no reason and cannot bear sanctions. Especially when you look at an article. The law of 1st and beyond will then be very clearly seen your desire to transfer it from criminal law to a legal person for the responsibility of individuals. Why? As far as I know, and I seem to know enough, there is no legal responsibility in the world or at least not in the form you suggest. The guilty responsibility must be personalized. A legal person, a legal person, can commit a crime, but the company can't answer. When we get to the amendment I filed, we'll talk about it a little bit more. It cannot be punished by a collective but by an perpetrator, a responsible person, or by a legal person. The sanctions are absolutely pointless. I have submitted an amendment to Article 23. Proposal for a law that says "For criminal offences for which legal persons are responsible, the following security measures may be imposed: 1) prohibition to perform certain registered activities or transactions; 2) confiscation of cases; 3) public publication of judgments. '"It would be nice if the legal person had subjectivity, so that he could at least blush because of it, he can't do this. This third point is pointless to you, absolutely pointless. Especially if you get to those legal persons who have lost their legal personality, the company has been shut down, sold, transformed, etc. Now some other officials are in a legal person or a completely different legal person, or it's just a former legal person that's part of a much bigger legal person, and now you're making public judgment. The judgment of the legal person, which has long ceased to exist, published in the means of information and who will be interested in it at all. To remind ourselves that natural persons in legal faces have done incredible damage to the state of Serbia. To remind you of the "sugar" affair, where the responsible person, the owner, director of the "yellow" company, Miodrag Kostic, in his legal face, bought sugar, I don't know what those three sugars he bought for three euros were called, and now the company is called "Sunoko", because he sold some rights and teamed up, in other words, hid traces – when we got the right to take out sugar and that Europe helped Serbia, and he bought sugar, sugarcane from Cuba and from which far lower prices, he just repacked, didn't even repack everything and they caught it there, and sold it as domestic sugar. He got rich, closed down, or sold "Sunoku", the money he took, the state was responsible and whoever we could punish in this case, the company no longer exists. Publish it in the means of information, as the company has already been called, no one will be interested. The agricultural credit affair is an affair which is very much related to the Ministry, but not the Ministry as a legal person to bear responsibility, but Minister Raseta-Vukosavljevic, or minister, because by sharing agricultural loans, she has granted credit to her mother-in-law for obtaining some sheep's breeding herds, only they didn't say "de Lux" sheep. I mean, he took a father-in-law's loan, and when it was a while ago, people came to determine how the mother-in-law was multiplying because these sheep were lambs of two, three lambs. Turns out the loan was spent on building a motel with red lanterns, I don't want to say what the purpose of that motel was. And nothing, he ate a donkey wolf, and Rasheta-Vukovljević didn't even turn red. The Museum of History of Yugoslavia affair. I'm from this assembly pay phone, in two terms the bar, pulled an incredible robbery that was committed there. Nothing to anyone. And today, the director is sitting in that place, still managing assets that had incredible value, not only museum property, but also financial property. The affair at the Museum of Applied Arts, just to remind you: Branko Angelkovic-Dimitrijević, director of the Museum of Applied Art, released Goran Borenović five years ago, left a man with three children on the street, tried for five years and the court returned him to work. The museum of applied art had no money, but it had connections, because the lady was the deputy minister's wife, Branislav Dimitrijevic, who is the son of Vojin Dimitrijevic, therefore, is the family of Dimitrijevic, and since he was the deputy minister of the time, Voja Brajovic, everything is undermined 'yellow', the Ministry transferred from its funds to the Museum of Applied Arts, under some excuse, 30,000 euros. The verdict was 20,000 euros, 20,000 euros are paid to a man for five years of work, and 10,000 euros are gone. In addition, when something was renovated by the Museum of Applied Art, the priceless works of art were passed on by a simple truck, they were not known where, and were not listed before, so it is not known how much was carried out, or how much would be entered, if anything was ever brought into the museum after the renovation. Thus, it is not known for these 10,000 euros where it went, but it is known that the deputy minister of culture, today the secretary of state in the same ministry, is known that the relationship between husband, wife, father or father-in-law, however, works very well. And nothing to anyone. I have mentioned from this pay phone at least three times this, that she was preparing an affair, that the affair was in progress and that the affair was over, but nothing. In the end, an affair of the unauthorized borrowing of a legal person by a responsible person. There comes a responsible, more precisely irresponsible person, tasks a legal person for a huge amount of money, unauthorizedly in charge, here, this has now happened to us that an irresponsible and unauthorized person has put us in charge, we don't know why, for some 50 million dinars at the Intheza Bank, and it hasn't blushed. It's a responsible person, and a legal person can't turn red. Of course, criminal charges have been filed. But when a mandate is stolen, it's 15,000 votes. The term of office has no price. When 20 seats are stolen, 15,000 times 20, that's 300 thousand votes. So when the council mandates are stolen, thank God, I must commend you, Madam Minister, except for three, four courts, all other courts in Serbia are tried by law, respecting what is in Dušan's code - and judges should judge by law, not according to the mercy of the empire. So, let's say, this morning, the Smedereva District Court returned 14 parliamentary mandates. that a group of citizens tried to steal from the SRS. But there's something else for Smeder. An unauthorized person, a certain citizen who falsely presents himself as a councilman, could no longer, no longer, falsely represent himself and as an MP, will be able to for some time, no longer be able, has been charged by the District Committee for a million and three hundred thousand dinars. He's unauthorized, and now the bills are coming in. Those bills have to go back to him. Well, let those who have done him favors resolve it, and criminal charges will be initiated. The TV "Smederevo" was photographed by a man, going out on shows, not to say, kicking empty straw, even past some pre-election campaign and 430 grand; TV "Jerina" 480.000; home culture, whatever he was looking for in the House of Culture, God knows, 55,000; "Lasta" probably drove somewhere, 93,000; municipal court 103 thousand, here there can only be two things: or what he was leading these when he convinced them that he would hold their mandates, sign some kind of statements about some kind of resignations that were under some kind of duressts, etc. 103 thousand;The city's congregation, what he was looking for in the city's assembly, as an unauthorized face, though not as a face, mostly 125 thousand. This is why criminal charges will be filed, and all duties will have to be regulated... (Chairman: Time)... I'm done. Can I use the next 15 minutes? I can't. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this law is much more than what I said, Madam Minister, about that law. This law is much more for the police, a law that will not be applied unless we completely defile our judiciary and our legislation, and in such laws that we search for holes in order to implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4477	Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4478	Mrs. Malovic, I expected you to tell us today that you have referred the authorities from your ministry to the District Court in Novi Sad, related to those complaints from Titus and Beocina. I would ask you to inform us about this during the day, given that you will leave us for a short time, that is, a certain number of days, since your colleague Milan Markovic comes after you, so I would ask you while you are here to clear this up. In my long-standing legal practice, I have been very often given the opportunity to have one of my citizens, laika, as far as rights are concerned, turn around and say – ma'am, since you are a legal person, so let me ask you that too. Believe me, I didn't have a lot of trouble with these people, no matter what the professions are from, but mostly the lawyers aren't, I explain that I'm a lawyer in a legal face and I want to clarify what a legal person is and what a physical person is. All what fellow SRS MPs have been saying today about these previous amendments, it seems to me, somehow, that this way, right through this Article 34, whose erasure I have proposed, in a way, to sublime itself. Since such a law cannot exist in Serbia's legal system, this and similar laws question our already stable legal system, centuries-old, it is very interesting that you dare to go with such experiments to the National Assembly. This is one of the laws that no one will ever be able to apply. I think it's clear to all of you, but well, you're working on someone else's demands and orders. Yesterday there was a time when I was away with a few other colleagues, because we had a conversation with the party president, someone was brave to say, that someone was from the DS, but I don't want to mention the name, because I really don't want to talk to that man, that the SRS is getting orders from The Hague. We Serbian radicals are extremely proud of our neat communication with the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and each of us who is able to hear from him is both happy personally and very honored as a member of the party. We do not take orders, we have one democratic dialogue and a democratic way of deciding in the party. That's how it's always been, since our first day and day party runs exclusively, only Dr. Vojislav Seselj. But even if we were to receive orders from The Hague, in that case we would receive orders from the greatest Serbian hero, of one, probably, if not the least living Serb. And you gentlemen are receiving orders from the enemies of the Serbs from Brussels and Washington, and the consequence of these orders is this bill of law that we are talking about today. What does this article 34 say? In fact, I wanted to say earlier that it would have been best and that it was best if we had proposed that each of the members should be deleted individually, because this law cannot survive in the legal system, but we did not do so precisely to distract you, so that we would distract the citizens of Serbia, how much of your unsuspecting bill you are proposing to Parliament. I am convinced that all citizens who have been following Parliament's work today and who have nothing to do with the law, who have never set foot in law school, who knows what they are by profession, have fully understood how pointless what has been proposed to us here and what we are discussing, and where we spend so much time. Thus, in Article 34, he says: ''The legal persons shall be duly subject to the provisions of the general act of the Criminal Code (I will not now read this whole article but what is most characteristic) in the execution of the criminal act by inaction. ''How can a legal person commit a crime by committing a crime, and by inaction, if we've cleared up what a legal person is, and I guess we have? Well, a crime scene. Can a legal person walk? In this sense, I'm sure not. It can be reregistered, it can change the place, seat, etc., but it's not in the sense of this member being mentioned here. Then, "in extreme need." How can a legal person react in extreme need and how does a legal person know, how does he know that he has come to an emergency? Then 'incentive'. How can a legal person encourage someone? Really, I can't get any closer to that, and I believe all of you here, no matter what you vote for this bill. But this is about "helping, the limits of responsibility and punishment of accomplices." Two legal accomplices in some crime scene. You're looking, Mr. Ratkovic, and you're surprised, aren't you? Do you understand? I'd like to ask you, we're colleagues by profession, to explain afterwards what we may not be smart enough and legally educated to understand. Next, ''it punishes the instigator and the helper for attempted and easier crime. '"How can a legal person do an attempt at a minor crime? You're particularly talking about the purpose of "conditional conviction." Imagine, a legal person subject to a time sentence that will take place during a period of time if a legal person does not commit a new crime. So, legally, something like this can't really survive. Now one question about everything that we started with today. The question, Madam Minister, is both ladies and gentlemen MPs from the assembly majority, how will Serbia, or legal persons, be punished, by the authorities of the Serbian state who are legal persons, for crime and corruption at the top of the government? If the President of the Republic is found to be a criminal, does that mean Serbia's liquidation? The application of this law would have to be seen that way. Let's say, vice president or one of the Deputy Prime Ministers, if they are found to have committed a crime, what happens to the government, what happens to Serbia? If the president of the state says that Serbia will have, a few days ago, a flexible relationship when it comes to KIM, and then says that a good solution is to divide KIM, and then says that the Eulex mission can be moved to KIM, along with certain familiar conditions. Since it's just test balloons, to see the reaction of the people, to see how they will react when he does all that he's been suggesting lately, means, he, undeniably, violates the Constitution. By breaking the Constitution, all regulations are broken. It's one of the most serious crimes. Then what will happen to the state of Serbia? It is clear that what Tadic is suggesting these days, in fact, means the silent liquidation of Serbia, because in this way we are approaching, unfortunately, what we are all saying continues to believe will not and cannot be found by a man in Serbia who will sign an act that recognises Kosovo as an independent state, but some other, conditionally speaking, secondary acts to be signed, that some consent beyond authority and that we and the 'de jure' may be left without Kosovo. As what is happening with Vojvodina and this Statute of Vojvodina which, in fact, gives certain characteristics of the statehood of our province, also a little bit of a step by step can lead us to Serbia and the 'de jure' and 'de facto' being left without Vojvodina. So, the representatives of the authorities seem to apply this law even though it hasn't been passed yet, because you, Madam Minister, when you explained the previous law yesterday, said that some people who have worked on the law had participated in it long ago. That was very interesting to me, how they could have worked on the law, I'm talking about yesterday's, this is a depression, you said, exactly, that they were involved in making laws that had already been applied. So, in his day, Gašo Knezevic said that the law on higher education is being applied, although it has not yet been adopted and has not yet entered into force. It may be the manner of you in DS, but just so you know. Today, Mrs. Parliament President also said that citizens can no longer listen to us, that we are boring, we are hard-working citizens. Then you came up with that, also in agreement, when something important is happening in Serbia, what citizens should hear and know, then you organize a board meeting, the other day you brought the governor, today you bring Minister Skundric, instead of coming here and talking from this place, to see and hear us Serbian citizens, first of all, to hear what we're going to say, what we're going to ask and what answers we're going to get. No, you don't, you do it all behind closed doors. What happens through the application of this law? I'm talking about this law and this amendment. Who will be responsible for the fact that we were informed on the news last night that the Serbian government unanimously decided on a unilateral application of the SAA. Then that vice-president of the government, which is unarticulated from here, you remember everyone, shouting "let's adopt the SAA" and after all the shouting last night, he's got face again and he had to convince us how good it is for Serbia to start this unilateral application of the SAA. So, so much of this government and this dictator Boris Broz are doing Serbia so much that it's just amazing how this country survives at all, but you don't want to share it with the MPs, actually, you don't want to share it with the citizens of Serbia. That's what we Serbian radicals insist on. So, the question for you, Mrs Malovic, and regarding this law, for the article 34 I have submitted to the amendment, I really insist that you answer that question: when it is established, and it will be determined, it is almost certain, one day, that through all this we are talking about today, Boris Tadic, Djelic, Dinkic, that all of them have done what they do to Serbia in continuity, please, as responsible for this, respond to the citizens of Serbia – does this mean Serbia's liquidation, does this mean that you Democrats are ready to liquidate Serbia and that you accept it by passing such laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4479	Based on article 85, I'm setting a break of one hour. Resume at 3:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4480	We continue the work, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4481	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 35 of Article 2 which is cited in the proposal, so I will read it – part of this second proposal, which is headed under the name of the General Provisions, the Single Procedure: ''For the same criminal act, the water, as a rule, against the legal person and the responsible person, and a single procedure, and a verdict. If, for reasons of the existence of a law, it is not possible to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings against the responsible person, the proceedings may be initiated and conducted only against the legal person. If a legal person ceases to exist prior to the initiation of the criminal proceedings, the procedure may only be initiated and directed against the responsible person. 'Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this matter has so far been regulated and regulated by the Law on Economic Crimes and the case law. A good part of these provisions in the proposal makes sense to rely on the existing Business Crimes Act. When it comes to this area, which needs to be turned into a criminal justice area, I'll remind you it was a business offense before. What was an economic offense, and what was its purpose? The commercial offence is a violation of the rules on business and financial operations, which were committed by the legal person and the responsible person in the legal person, who caused or could have caused serious consequences and which was designated as a commercial offence by the competent authority. Infringement of the rules on economic crime and financial business containing the mark of a commercial offence, as set out in the regulation, is not a commercial offence as it has been normised. However, I would not like to repeat the presentations of Professor Martinovic, Verica Radet, Zoran Krasic, otherwise a lawyer by profession, I would just like to draw your attention to the movement and the alignment of certain criminal laws with us. In early October 2005, a new Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, which entered into force on 1 January 2006, and it contains many newspapers and significant differences compared to until then the applicable criminal legislation that was in the so-called ". Basic criminal law (renamed KZ SRJ) and the Criminal Law of Serbia. Even when much less significant changes and new solutions are made in criminal law, they usually require changes in any other legal regulations with which they are involved, especially in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which, as an instrument for the application of the Criminal Code, must be in complete compliance with it. Nevertheless, the adoption of a new Criminal Code this time has not been followed by any amendments to the CAP, so that the two laws have become mutually unconformed and contradictory in certain issues and individual provisions, which there is and will undoubtedly have ugly consequences in their application. On the mutual harmonisation of legislation in general and criminal legislation, including this proposed law, and even the harmonisation of legislation with new constitutional provisions and ratified international law, we have been having little regard to lately. Thus, our criminal-processing legislation, which was in line with the 1992 SFRY Constitution, was only in 2001 to be replaced by the Law on Criminal Procedure, which came into force at the end of March 2002, so only ten months before the Constitution was replaced by the Constitutional Charter on 4 February 2003. The harmonisation of laws between them, especially with the new constitution, was once in Yugoslavia on a regular basis, often the only reason for amending existing laws, and the integration of material and procedural legislation was done at the same time, which in particular was not the case with us in relation to Criminal Law and the CAP. Although they are closely connected, the Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure are today passed, changed and complemented completely uncoordinated and independent of each other, not only time-consuming but also in each other's ways. And this bill is passed without being in agreement with the Criminal Code of Serbia. Working groups, tasked with preparing legal projects from the criminal justice area, are composed exclusively of some specialists for material, or procedural law, who, apart from their "their" specialities, do not have much interest in other areas of criminal law, often and sufficiently extensive legal knowledge. Such work on the preparation of the law does not allow the effects of changes in one area of law to be seen in time, and that the disturbed fund, due to changes on one side, is temporarily removed by changes on the other side. Closed to narrow specialist frameworks is noticeable not only in legislative work, but usually at the University, at scientific institutes, and even in judicial practice (the Kragujevac District Court case, which does not apply the same standards of the Law on Local Elections, in contrast, more than 30 courts in the Republic of Serbia have acted in accordance with provisions 46, 47 and 48. Law on local elections.. So it shows that court practices are inconsistencies. The first decision was made by the Belgrade District Court. When all courts in the Republic of Serbia acted in accordance with those laws and mandates, the SRS had to do so and had to do the Kragujevac District Court. Here's a chance to make sure we have an independent, impartial judiciary. I welcome these brave judges who have not succumbed to anyone's pressures, nobody's advice, which, for the time being, is about 90% of the decisions made and the mandates of the SRS have been returned. I am taking the opportunity to tell the Serbian judges that they are not afraid of any party pressure and that the parties must raise their hands from the judiciary. If we want an independent and impartial judiciary, then let the courts and judges do their job. It is rare to find an individual who equally manages the problem of material and procedural law. All of this reflects negatively on the process of creating rights. Not only does it harm the quality of new laws, but there is a sharp contradiction between individual laws, as is the case in the draft of this law. It is committed to jeopardising the functioning of the legal system in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. a new criminal justice subsystem. For these and similar reasons, the adoption of a new criminal code, which has not been followed by the simultaneous adaptation of procedural legislation, has led to serious and worrying discrepancies between criminal material and procedural law, which is already causing significant difficulties in their application, of which some court practice will not alone be able to overcome. Those discrepancies, ladies and gentlemen, which he could not allow, the legislator would have had to remove as soon as possible. This applies both to the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which is due to enter into force on 1 January 2009, and to the proposal for a law on the liability of the legal persons for the offences committed and any other regulations which contain legal provisions in their provisions, which apply as criminal provisions. To remind and repeat, we have over 50 laws and regulations with provisions of criminal character that violates the system's basic and fundamental law, which is the Criminal Code of Serbia. Work on reforming criminal proceedings in Serbia should be laid on other grounds, harmonising the new Code of Criminal Procedure with the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. This approach to criminal law reform is inconsequential, as time and attention are spent on one job that, if it is not excessive, is neither necessary nor necessary, and which, according to all things, cannot produce useful results. Every work, including legislative work, must go through more or less complex processes. As a result, some law - law projects may be misrepresented and eventually improved, although it is generally very difficult to correct what is going on. It is not excluded to reach a good law and vice versa from an extremely bad starting text. In recent years, we have witnessed inflation of criminal law because many of the provisions in the criminal area are in many laws and regulations. On the basis of the above, I believe that the wrong and unacceptable proposals for the adoption of new laws or amendments and the addition of certain laws are wrong and unacceptable, as international standards and methods for the making of laws are not respected. When it comes to this area and this bill of law, I repeat, I would not want to go back and speak what our MPs here today have commented and highlighted as important shortcomings and certain weaknesses that follow us in the criminal justice area. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, in chapter 20 and 22. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia provides for standards that regulate and an area relating to provisions and the idea of a law on legal persons' liability. A large number of members and regulations speak of it. I don't see that it was necessary to join this area as a special legislative project. Why? Because now they're being led astray by courts and judges. When the judge receives the case, he has previously been charged with commercial crimes, and now there will be an indictment, a request for an investigation, he must consider whether he will apply the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia or will apply this code. What is basic, the court and the judge who receives such cases should follow the provisions of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. In the provision of Article 223. .. (President: Mr Jojic, you are talking for 15 minutes and 10 seconds about your amendment. I'll finish if you give me a few more seconds. In the provisions of Art. 223-255. This area is regulated. As far as a number of agencies and directors are concerned, they're not going to improve anything here either. For this reason, we believe that the criminal justice area was to be united in our country, and this matter is easier to apply. Because imagine, when a judge has to take five, six laws to make one decision, we actually have to have everything in one coded criminal act, that is. in one of the Criminal Codes of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4482	Thank you. Ms. Jovanovic reported to the Rules of Procedure. I'll just let you know, in accordance with Art. 85, and I'm doing it 16 hours ago, we'll be doing it today and after 18 hours. The importance of the agenda is why I've made this decision and I'm notifying you. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4483	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. In 225 and 226, I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister in the Hall, Mrs Malovic, and to tell you what is going on next, regarding the radical interpretation of the Law on Local Elections, following such a scandalous decision by the District Court in Kragujevac, due to the direct connection between Tomislav Nikolic and Miroslav Tomic, the President of the District Court. My colleague Jojic is right. Not only is it a precedent, although something similar has been tried in Novi Sad, Mrs Malovic, it is amazing that any judge and any judicial council, but, apparently using or with political pressure done by Nikolic, it is its function, and this should be an honorary role of the holders of the judicial function, trying in the right sense of the word, here are legal experts from our party, to make a mockery of the Law on Local Elections. The democratic order in this country has been torn down, starting with the town of Kragujevac and everywhere that happens in that way. You know what they wrote in that scandalous verdict, maybe you've had opportunities and you see, it's obvious that it's political will, or the will of two people. They call for the Law on Administrative Dispute, which has nothing to do with the Law on Local Elections, Article 47, where there are irrevocable resignations, contracts, powers and, above all, decisions by the bodies to conduct elections and verify new mandates, which is the City Election Commission of Kragujevac and the mandate-immunity committee. They say there was no silence from the administration, because the Kragujevac City Assembly decided on the same day and announced that decision... As long as Mr. Chikiriz isn't, I'm sorry, I won't mention your honorable name anymore, but, well, since you're quite by chance, it's such a game of fate, at this important historic moment of the collapse of democracy in Kragujevac, and you're kind of present. So they wrote in that verdict that there was no silence from the administration, because the City Assembly made a decision about it. How? So, 13 committee members were in favour of establishing the end of the mandate for these apostates, the ten who sat, who were former, expelled, members of the SRS, who were not ashamed of anything, voted against it, and I must point out that the DSS is the only committee group in the Kragujevac City Assembly that respected the Constitution and the law. The SPS's and NS's committee group has also been detained in this case. Mrs. Malovic, you know very well that, regardless of what they say, the law knows only one term, correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think I'm wrong, that I'm right. The assembly failed to make that decision. Am I right when I say that? She has therefore failed to verify the mandates, or to establish the termination. How pathetic all this is is the fact that after that debacle he had experienced in the hall, Sasa Milenic, president of the Kragujevac City Assembly, went to Kragujevac and told Kragujevac last night that he welcomed the impartial trial and objectivity of the trial council in Kragujevac and that democracy was defended. What are we talking about here? Of course this is not the end, but rest assured, I assure you and the general public, first of all, of the citizens of Kragujevci, that we will defend our democratic will, regardless of this pressure and abuse of justice in our city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4484	The 6rd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr Krasic, so Mr Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4485	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have read everything well and you have not made a mistake, but you see for yourself, the SRS amendment applicant, and in the signing of Veroljub Arsic. Veroljub Arsic is not in the SRS. Mrs. Komic, my friend, will be angry when I say citizen, but I say citizen in an affirmative sense. From the point of view of the Constitution, they are all citizens, from the point of view of all rights they belong to citizens, from another point of view there is a difference between citizens and foreigners. Citizens are represented in the National Assembly. As you can see, he stole the computer with his secretary, so he returned the computer, then stole it again, filed some amendment when the SRS was and you admit it, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Since we are in very clear positions, everything is clear in this Serbia except Boris Tadic. It's clear even DS, but Boris Tadic has him so he doesn't go to jail. I will now return to the amendment, as this is all clear and this operation with friends Srdjan Milivojevic who have entered the Progressive Party has been recognized, it is visible. Let's move on. The SRS submitted an amendment and requested that Article 63 be deleted. It's a bill of law. Article 63. The bill regulates the removal of a convicted legal person. Now we have new categories in criminal law. We have a suspect legal person, we have a defendant's legal face, we have a defendant's legal face, and now we're in a chapter called the convicted legal person. We deliberately did not submit amendments to the other members of this bill because then it would be a real experience over this text, and we do not want to experience it. You should know that in a court case, and this case being conducted is a criminal case, so now we've come back to that beginning, there's a criminal case against a legal person, in this criminal case, because he's unique, there's a responsible person on the defendant's bench as the defendant's first order and there's a representative of the legal person as the defendant of the second order. The defendant of the First Order may have a defender, but he may have a defender and a defendant of the second order. I'm telling you this because it's a criminal trial. So a criminal case is against a legal person, not a liability procedure for the crime of a responsible person. I deliberately potentiate this because of the present game of words which clouds practically the essence. Article 63. The bill reads: "The sentence of termination of a legal person shall be carried out by eradicating a convicted legal person from the register of the legal person in which it is entered." However, in one of the previous members, where the penalty for erasing is prescribed, there are talks on liquidation and bankruptcy. Why? At a time when there was a death penalty she was executed in some way. France and these other countries had the so-called a state executioner, a very significant state function that carries out the death penalty. We used to have that punishment executed by order of 10 guards, sentenced to stand against the wall, they fired one bullet, the doctor found the death penalty was executed, but no desert proceedings were conducted before the man was killed. No legacy, no inheritance, no life support, no nothing. There's a punishment for a physical face. How do you execute the death penalty on a legal person? The death penalty on the legal person shall be executed by carrying out the liquidation or bankruptcy proceedings. Why? Because there are certain rights and obligations. Because there are also debts and claims of a legal person. Then they say – the sentence of termination of a legal person is carried out by deleting that legal person in the register, possibly an economic register. What about bankruptcy, what about property, what about rights and obligations, what about those who believed in good faith? We also have citizens who believed, here, a large number of citizens trusted a man, so that man turned his back and his godfather. It's not because of his crime that a legal person should be destroyed that he unfoundedly and illegally represented. There are mental errors in the law here, really serious mental errors. Don't you think it's funny, a criminal case is being conducted for abuse of official office, because the director signed something he wasn't authorized to do, and besides him, a representative of the legal person should sit, and a legal person has found that the director has committed a crime. And now I'm supposed to sit next to Tomislav Nikolic on the defendant's bench?- I'm sorry. And we're on different sides. How's that? How can Boris Tadic sit on the indictee's bench along with Gilas? (I don't want to mention Bozovic, he's my friend, he's a athlete. There's a '7, though. "day," "8." Passenger, 10 Commandments of God, I must be careful. Well done, until I call my web. And when I call my web, hold on! Doesn't that seem a little pointless? The legal person found that the director was indecipherable, now the director because he was unaccountable would not be held to answer, no criminal proceedings were conducted, but proceedings against the legal person were conducted, and the legal person saw the man slip. How can you please explain this to me? You've overcome something that's an objective responsibility in the Commercial Crimes Act. The Law on Commercial Crimes is a classic example of objective responsibility, because the person responsible in law has done something illegal, it has done so, so it is punished, but it is also punishable by a legal person. How? Money. There are other measures, bans on performance, etc. You're here saying there's a criminal case against the director and the legal person, so doesn't it seem crazy to you? Someone was in charge of some company, ruined the company, the workers were striked, demonstrated, conducted the proceedings, wrote one minister, the second, third, asked for help, etc., by the letter of this law, they could be on the defendant's bench and the legal face and the responsible person in that legal face. One side by side to sit down. The director, the fucker, and the representative of the company the union has chosen, and even a legal person can be damaged, to launch an asset-law claim to seek, but you will, by this law and that legal person, punish it in criminal proceedings. Well, that's really pointless, if it's a lot of DS, it's just too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4486	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also in the afternoon debate pointed to the fact that the entire concept of criminal liability of legal persons is strained, lifeless and that all these institutes contained in the bill will probably not be able to be applied in practice. One of those institutes is the removal of a convicted legal entity from the register. We said that the legal person cannot, in principle, impose any criminal sanctions, because it does not achieve the purpose prescribed by the Criminal Code, which is general and special prevention of crime. On the other hand, the measure of termination of a legal person, which is reportedly criminally responsible, will be imposed on employees in that legal person, on completely ordinary people, who are absolutely not responsible for any crime. The purpose of this law will not be achieved, as in principle a difficult economic and social position will be brought to people who have no connection with any criminal act. Since there was no time, I'm going to take the opportunity just to take a brief look at this article 35. It's a bill of law. I don't know if you've noticed, Mrs. Malovic, the whole member of the 35th is contradictory in his views, each other. In the view of Article 35, you say that, for the same criminal act, one goes and leads, as a rule, against the legal person and the responsible person, a single procedure and a verdict is made. So, it's on the trail of the initial concepts, that the legal person is responsible for the crime committed by the responsible person in that legal person. In Section 2, you are already stepping down from your concept, and you say, 'If, because of the existence of a law of certain reasons, it is not possible to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings against the responsible person, the procedure can be initiated and conducted only against the legal person. ''Mrs. Malovic, with this attitude you go directly against the very name of the bill itself, because you are in the explanation why you do not accept our amendments said this was not about criminal responsibility. This is about the responsibility of the legal persons for the criminal acts of their responsible persons. Now it turns out that it's something quite different from a criminal liability, but in Article 35(2), you say there can be a legal person's responsibility and no responsibility for the responsible person. This means that this is no longer an objective responsibility but a subjective one. The question is, how is it possible that in a criminal procedure a legal person can answer for himself, when it cannot be blamed at all? He has no consciousness, he has no will, he can't be complicit, he can't act out of imagination, he can't act out of incessant, he can't act out of incessant, he can't act out of direct imagination, he can't act out of incessant, he can't act out of direct imagination, and so on. It shall automatically adjudicate the previous provision of Article 34. A criminal code, where you have led certain institutes in the general section of the Criminal Code to apply to legal persons. Mrs. Verica Radeta has noticed well, if there is no responsibility for the responsible person, but there is only a criminal liability of the legal person, which is possible by what you wrote in Article 35, then the question is asked, e.g. How can a legal person who is responsible for himself be in extreme need? How is he going to assess whether there's an emergency or not? It takes consciousness and will, in the psychological sense of that word. A legal person like a legal fiction that consciousness and will and any other psychological category simply cannot possess. A legal person cannot, if he is only responsible for himself, without the responsibility of the responsible person, how the purpose of a conditional conviction can be achieved upon him. You have stated that one of the institutions of the general section of the Criminal Code, 'and the purpose of the probation', Article 64, will apply to the legal person. Criminal code. How can a legal person be subject to any criminal sanctions when it is not a living thing? So when a person is said to be a person, then it is thought to be a living being, which has certain elements of psychological life, such as consciousness and will, so it can be properly applied to the criminal act, but also to the purpose of the criminal sanctions being imposed on him. If you adopt what you have suggested that a legal person can answer criminally in criminal proceedings without having the responsibility of the responsible person, then I would really like you to explain to me how you imagine that the courts in practice will be able to apply one of these provisions? I would really like you to go out for a congregation pay phone and give us a fundamental legal explanation of what you wrote. You gave us one political explanation – we wrote in the bill a whole series of innovations because this is what the EU wants. It's a political explanation. I understand that this is how you meet certain political requirements. You say – we have to put a whole series of completely unknown legal solutions and legal institutes into something called the bill because someone asks us to. It's a political explanation. I would like you to explain to me – how do you imagine a legal person will be able to answer for himself, assess whether he is in extreme need or not, that he is affected by the purpose of a conditional conviction, etc. These institutes cannot be mechanically applied to legal and physical persons alike, because there is something between legal and physical persons that essentially separates them. Legal persons, Mrs. Malovic, do not have a biological identity and a biological substance, do not have their own psychological life, have no consciousness and will, and no criminal proceedings can be conducted against those persons. You won't be able to lead him in practice. You can put into law whatever you want, in practice the courts won't be able to conduct criminal proceedings in a partial and separate manner only against a legal person.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4488	Member of the 70th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been proposed by the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am convinced that this law will remain a dead letter on paper, as well as other laws in Serbia. I believe this will never come into effect, i.e. Boris Tadic will refuse to sign an order about his declaration. I will try in the time available to me to make arguments on which I base my conviction and explain why I have proposed an amendment to Article 70. Article 6(1) The bill reads: 'The legal person is responsible for a criminal offence which, in the context of his affairs, i.e. powers, makes a responsible person responsible in order to benefit a legal person. ''In this assembly, from seven days ago, we have a legal person who is represented as a political party or a parliamentary group – although he has committed more crimes. Since it is not yet clear what the group or party is called, whether the Serbian People's Party, SNS or "Forward, Serbia", I will continue to call it in the discussion a unique name of the "stealer's Association". Tomislav Nikolic, as the responsible face of the Association, stole resignations signed by 78 SRS MPs, with the intention of making the second legal person, the "stealer's Association", benefit from that. Here's the evidence. In an interview in politics since 12 September, at the news station – therefore, you have removed resignations, Mr Nikolic answers: yes, I have removed them. So Nikolic admitted that the resignations were not lost, but that they were removed. A week ago, from this pay phone, Nikolic repeated twice that his resignation was in his pocket. Since all resignations, all 78 resignations, were in one folder, it is absolutely impossible for 79 resignations to be lost and one in Mr Nikolic's pocket. The conclusion is more than clear. The resignations exist, they're not lost at all, they're just removed. They were removed by Tomislav Nikolic and he knows where they are. These resignations are the property of the SRS and its MPs. This again means that Tomislav Nikolic holds on to himself, unauthorized and against the law, by abuse of office, extremely valuable, invaluable assets of the SRS and its MPs, but also by the property of Serbian citizens, their electoral will, their electoral right. They made it clear in the May 11th elections what kind of parliament they wanted, and Tomislav Nikolic is trying, with a persistent repeat of the crimes, to prevent the implementation of that will. His association, at the time the elections were held, didn't exist. In parliament, there are 20 representatives with a clear goal of obtaining a huge property and political benefit to another legal person, the "stealer's Association", illegally. If we start by calculating that one parliamentary term in a four-year time period is worth about 80,000 euros (that's one of my bills) probably bigger, and we multiply it by 20 stolen mandates, we get a million and 600 thousand euros. Also, members of the "stealer's Association" have been trying for a month to, at the same time, take several hundred parliamentary mandates from the SRS, whose value, according to one of my free accounts, is about two million euros. Article 11 in the first position sanctions the proposal – an extended criminal offence: "The legal person shall be liable for an extended criminal offence if, in accordance with Article 6 of this Act, it is responsible for several crimes committed by two or more responsible persons, provided that the offences represent the whole within the meaning of Article 61(1). Criminal code. "What Tomislav Nikolic does and mentioned "the association" is just a prolonged crime. Both legal conditions have been met. First condition – we have more crimes. And, second condition - we have more responsible faces. There are all the necessary preconditions that, immediately after the adoption of this law, criminal proceedings are initiated against that association under this law. According to Article 13: 'The legal person may be fined as follows: 1) fine; 2) termination of a legal person. ''Article 14. The bill sets the level of fines for a legal person, and it ranges between 100,000 and 500 million dinars. Given the severity and number of crimes committed by Tomislav Nikolic and the "steal-stealing association" there is almost no doubt that they would receive a fine of more than 20 million and perhaps all 500 million dinars. That's what article 15 shows. The bill, which reads: "The court will measure fines within the limits prescribed by law for the purpose of punishment and taking into account all circumstances affecting the punishment to be greater or smaller (relievable and difficult circumstances), and in particular: the degree of responsibility of the legal person for the criminal offence committed, the size of the legal person, the position and number of persons responsible in the legal person who committed the crime, the measures taken by the legal person in order to prevent and detect the crime and the measure taken after the offence has been committed according to the person responsible". Let's take the turn. The degree of responsibility of the legal person for the crime committed – no doubt, 100 per cent. It is a matter of consciously designed, long and carefully prepared criminal acts, abuse of official position, theft of SRS property, kidnapping of parliamentary mandates, end of the electoral will of citizens, false representation and others, with the responsibility of the people who planned to be aware of their adverse consequences for the state of Serbia and its citizens. Secondly, the position of the responsible persons in the legal person who committed the crime is at stake among the leaders of the associations who are senior state officials, so to speak, representatives of the people of which some of them were vice-presidents of the government. Third, the number of persons responsible in the legal person who committed the crime – it is 20 responsible persons. Therefore, that condition is fulfilled. When you add everything together and subtract, it's clear that it's a crime for which the maximum penalty should be imposed, most likely in the amount of 500 million dinars. Since Tomislav Nikolic is a poor man who doesn't have that kind of money, the fine for him is not acceptable, even I don't think she would be socially justified in this case. There's the second sentence left, the end of the legal face. Stopping the existence of the "steal-stealer association," that's the best option for everyone. Here's why. First, Tomislav Nikolic retains his money that he earned, with severe torment, fighting for Serbia's poverty and Serbia. Yesterday for that Serbia from Bitola to Virovitica and Karlobag, today for Serbia from Bascetina to Belgrade. Secondly, the SRS receives back the kidnapped parliamentary mandates entrusted to it by Serbian citizens. Third, the Serbian Parliament establishes the electoral will of citizens, and it keeps on working and adopting laws. Fourthly, the political scene disappears from the same party that began its life in the theft and kidnapping of parliamentary and parliamentary mandates, at the challenge of the electoral will of citizens, which is a direct path to dictatorship. Because when one party starts its political life before birth by stealing and challenging the election will of the citizens, we can only assume what would happen to that party, God forbid, in 20 or 30 years' time it comes to power. Fifthly, it is also best for the citizens of Serbia. Namely, Boris Tadic and DS would have lost the reserve, the only reserve they now have and if they wanted to preserve power, they would have to work better and better in the future, rather than so far. The sentence, the termination of a legal person in this case, is referred to by Article 18. The bill, which says: "The sentence of termination of a legal person can be pronounced if the activity of a legal person in general or a significant extent was in the function of committing crimes. "The complete project of the Watchman's Stolen Retrieval Association" is based on the conduct of criminal acts. An attempt to destroy the strongest opposition party, steal as many as possible, all parliamentary and parliamentary mandates, hijacking rooms and assets of the SRS across Serbia, ending the electoral will of citizens and others. In this bill, the legislator also introduced the necessary dimension of humanity and humanity, which enables responsible persons in the legal face who have turned to the side of crime to return to the right path. That's what Article 10(3) says: 'The legal person who prevented the completion of the crime can be freed from punishment. '"What does this mean in practice? This means that there is still hope for Tomislav Nikolic and members of the Watchdogs' Association, both on the legal and moral sides. It is only enough to repent, to return the stolen resignations and parliamentary mandates to the SRS and Serbian citizens, to return the kidnapped parliamentary mandates, so that the courts in Serbia dissipate unnecessary work, to return kidnapped rooms, archives, stamps, money and so on. In that case, Article 24(1) of this proposal of the law, which reads: ''The Court may prohibit the person responsible from carrying out certain registered activities or tasks in respect of which the offence has been committed. ''In this case, 'that would mean 'the Watchdogs' Association' means that it is forbidden to continue to deal with the policies and affairs of the protection and security of persons and property.' 'Cause where are you gonna put the rabbit you just kicked out of the cabbage again? But that's why "the association" could deal with, say, the collection of TV subscriptions, the sale of "Hammer" jeeps, the construction of forest houses, set up in white, 500 square meters, with a swimming pool, the construction of a thermal power plant with Russian and Austrian capital, with the capital of the Russian and Austrian mafia, the opening of wineries, etc. If, in this and similar cases, everything is done by law, I believe that this would be sufficient punishment and that publication of judicial decisions and measures taken in the means of information would be excessive, as proposed by Article 70 of this Law. For this reason, I propose that the Parliament's vote day adopt this amendment and delete Article 70 of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4490	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? The SRS parliamentary group is available for four minutes. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4491	First, I will answer the parliamentary question I was asked, although I have learned the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by force, I cannot quote you a member, but I believe you will be able to identify who it is. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has regulated that decisions can only be made by the court and that court decisions can only be questioned in court proceedings, which means they cannot be subject to extrajudicial control. I know Mrs. Radeta knows that, but I must stress that because of the citizens of Serbia, in order not to get the impression that the Ministry of Justice, as part of the executive authority, can control the work of the courts. So the Justice Department can't control the work of the courts. Namely, Articles 66. Laws governing courts and Article 4. The Registrar of the Court has been regulated that the Ministry of Justice is overseeing proceedings in terms of respect for deadlines, respect for performances and material finance operations. In line with these powers we have, the Justice Department has requested a report on the handling of the Novi Sad District Court case concerning the mandates of the SRS that have been seized and we have received an answer that I will read to you, so as not to paraphrasise. ''In the process of assessing constitutionality, the election commission's solution, this court acted strictly under the rules, respecting the deadlines laid down in Article 54. The Law on Local Elections, as well as any other prescribed rules of procedure provided for in this Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes. There are no specific provisions in the Law on Local Elections, other than those on the time limit within which the court may appeal, on the court's proceedings in disputes for the assessment of the legality of decisions or for the failure of decision-making by the local self-government units, and the court in the cases referred to in Article 49. The Law on Local Elections led and led the procedure to the proper application of the provisions of the Law on Administrative Disputes, with strict compliance with the rules of the Law on Administrative Dispute, with the obligation to submit an appeal to the defendant's assembly and with the rules of Article 31. The ZUS, that the defendant is given a period of time to respond to a complaint, or a complaint, which cannot be shorter than eight days or longer than 30 days. The court shall take these cases under Article 49. The Law on Local Elections gave the Board of Appeal a 15-day deadline for the Court of Justice to respond to the appeal and case files, assessing that this is an appropriate deadline, and within the framework of the ZUS prescribed deadline. The provisions of the ZUS shall apply in accordance with the provisions of Article 53(3). Law on local elections, whenever the Law on Local Elections does not specifically regulate a procedural issue. Otherwise, in this court today, on 17 October 2008, the first case referred to in Article 49 was handed down and sentenced. The law on local elections, and on Monday, October 20th, 2008, an expedited decision will include the court's position on the scale of these disputes. '"So, as far as you can see from this, the decision will be sent on Monday, consistent with the power of the Justice Ministry we have done, and you will also get a written answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4492	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON THE AGENCY TO FIGHT OF CORRUPTION (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Judita Popović, Ivan Andrić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Slobodan Maras, Zoran Ostojić, Aleksandar Martinović, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Buha, Srdan Perić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milovan Radovanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Veroljub Arsić, Paja Momčev, Natasa Jovanovic, Momarović, Momar Marković, Srđan Spasojević, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Željko Tomić, Miroslav Petković, Arsen Djurić, Maja Vidinović, Konstavenović, Konstantin Samofov, Načija Kolanžija, Bilan Šaljanović, Miljanović, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić. Also, you have received amendments submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji on the bill, as well as a letter withdrawing all his amendments. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted the amendment, which suggested that the name of the law, chapter one and Article. 1st and 2nd are deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinović, and a National MP, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of this amendment is to correct major violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that were contained at the beginning of the draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. It is, in fact, an alphabet to the constitutional right that only those state bodies that are defined as such by the Constitution can exist in one country. The state authorities in the Republic of Serbia are defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: the National Assembly, the Government, the President of the Republic, the judicial authorities and the authorities of the administration. Thus, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not deviate from some classic settings when it comes to the organisation of state authorities. But here we are now facing the fact that the proposal for a law to the Anti-Corruption Agency provides for the establishment of a new state body, a new state institution that does not have its foothold in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The law cannot, nor can this bill make up some new state bodies that are not foreseen by the Constitution. The constitution knows no anti-corruption agency. Such a state body is unconstitutional, has no basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly has no right to pass a law that would provide for the establishment of a state body that is not already provided for by the current constitution. That's one problem. The other problem is that the establishment of this agency is intruding into a fundamental principle guaranteed by our Constitution, which is the principle of power-sharing. Today I showed the MPs here a classic piece of Slobodan Jovanovic about the state, the basis of a legal theory. This work has not been overcome in many of its aspects to this day, when it comes to basic concepts of state and right. What is the problem, I also said, after generations, is the fact that classical Serbian writers were largely expelled from the law school textbooks because they mainly did not ideologically match the regime established after World War II. Let me remind you, this same Slobodan Jovanovic I quoted today and whose book I showed here, after the Second World Work, more specifically, in 1946 was convicted as a war criminal because during World War II for a time he was, for about a year and a half, the president of the Yugoslav government in London and a representative of military minister Draža Mihajlovic. The communists couldn't forgive him and he's been convicted in absentia for '46 as a war criminal, an occupier's associate, for 20 years. Okay, Mr. Milivoevich, you obviously know better about this communist judiciary. I'm telling you, he's been convicted as a war criminal, sentenced to 20 years in prison, deprived of all civil rights, confiscation of property, etc. For these ideological reasons, Slobodan Jovanovic and many other Serbian writers were expelled from our textbooks and were mostly their works, practically, until the beginning of the 1990s, left darkness, in oblivion, and the good work of today their legal thinking is not known to the general public or to the professional public, and that this fact is indeed such evidence is also the bill of law sent to us by the Serbian Government. I really don't want to blame the bad legal solutions on the current minister, Snezani Malovic, probably didn't write this bill, was probably inherited by some other governments, but the fact remains that this bill encroachs on the principle of the division of power, which is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What does the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia say, or what did Slobodan Jovanovic say? There are three functions of state authority in each country and in the Republic of Serbia -- legislative, executive and judicial. Whenever it comes to a state body, you know in advance which category you can place it in the light of its basic function. Therefore, the legislative authority includes the National Assembly, the executive authority of the President of the State, the Government and the Authority of the Administration, in the judicial power of the judicial authorities. It raises the question, if we take into account this classical principle of the three-debt of state functions in legislative, executive and judicial terms, of which state function is to be held by the Anti-Corruption Agency? Is it a legislative authority? No, that's clear at first sight. Is the judicial authority, or judicial? No, not even the judicial authority, but it's not executive. The executive bodies are the head of state, government and administration, or ministry. The Anti-Corruption Agency is not an organ that can be classified into either of these three categories of state bodies. Now the question is, what is the Anti-Corruption Agency? If you analyse statements by officials and the Serbian government, Boris Tadic and various NGOs providing professional support to this government, you will come to the conclusion that Serbia cannot fight crime and corruption unless it adopts a thousand different laws that deviate from basic criminal law institutes, and if it does not establish a thousand different agencies that should fight crime and corruption in one way or another. This morning I said and I remain in it, if this government has the will and desire to fight crime and corruption, it can already do so without any special courts, prosecutors, without any agencies, without any law on the liability of legal persons for crimes, without any innovations that have been brought into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia since 2001 until today. However, the government has no genuine desire to curb crime and corruption in the Republic of Serbia. That's quite clear. Now, to hide the lack of that desire set up by various agencies. Here, when there is a set of laws to be represented by Milan Markovic, I will ask him a question – does he know, as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, how many agencies there are in the Republic of Serbia at all, what those agencies are doing, what their results are, in which category of state authorities of the agency belong, etc.? I doubt the minister knows that. If the minister doesn't know that, how do you expect Serbian citizens to know what the agencies are and what their jurisdiction is? You are now re-establishing one agency, this time the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is a completely unclear legal nature. Is it a state organ? It's not. Is it public service? It's not. Is it a public company? It's not. What is the legal nature of the Anti-Corruption Agency? What's this Agency gonna do? You can't use every new law to predict a new agency and say it - it's a state body. And, on the question, what function does this state body do you say – well, we don't know, it needs to write some reports, give opinions, etc. It's not a function of a state body. The State authority shall exercise power, issue some legally binding acts. Can this Anti-Corruption Agency do something like that? He can't. This is just a facade to hide the lack of the current government's desire to seriously deal with crime and corruption. That it is thus a witness and this brief debate has been concluded on the draft law on legal persons' liability for criminal offences. Legal persons can also be held accountable, but you saw there at the beginning of the bill the Republic of Serbia cannot, state authorities cannot, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't. Why? The biggest criminals and corrupters are right in the epicenter of the state government. It's easy for us to deal with crime and corruption in the periphery. It is easy to deal with crime and corruption of ordinary people who have no ties in political power, etc. It's easy to deal with politically inadequate DS officials. You deal with the ministers who are the head of corruption in Serbia. Count yourself out, which in 2000 came to Serbia without anything, with a sleeping aunt's couch and woke up with 11m euros. You deal with them. Ask Bojan Pajtic how money from the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund is spent in Novi Sad, how a pre-election DS campaign is financed from the Fund. Ask who is funding these transport companies carrying yellow-blue packages filled with money from the robbed people ahead of the election. That's what you gentlemen do. But you have been fenced in advance – the legal person may be responsible, but provided that our ministers, heads of state, regional secretaries, presidents of the executive council, future prime minister, etc. That's the essence of the whole story. No fight against crime and corruption will be fought by you. You're just trying to deceive the public of Serbia by passing a whole series of laws and by completely losing sight of that famous sensation of Cicero "Suum ius, suma iniuria" – the more law, the more injustice. Ask a better lawyer in the Republic of Serbia how many laws we have in Serbia, what these laws regulate, etc. We have the most massive legal system in Europe. Our legal system is far more massive than the EU's legal system. Let's say you step down, both by this law and law on legal liability, from some of the basic criminal rights settings. You're making a whole series of new subsidiary criminal laws. This again deviates from some of the constitutional standards of criminal law, but you don't care, you think you'll blur the eyes of the public in Serbia. There is no essential fight against crime and corruption. The main corruptionists and criminals are sitting in the government, sitting on Andric's crown, no one can do anything to them, but, therefore, we will deceive the public of Serbia – we are passing a law on legal liability, we are establishing a Anti-Corruption Agency, etc. With this agency, you are, in fact, substituting the responsibility of the Committee to resolve conflicts of interest. Did someone on that board say something that doesn't match the ruling parties? These days, we could hear from the chairman of the Committee on Dispute Resolution, who is not at all prone to SRS, on the contrary, that people who could not sit here in the Serbian Parliament are at the same time presidents of the municipalities, or mayors. Now those who say something that doesn't fit the ruling set should be silenced, and the agency should be set up, and those people who say something that doesn't suit us, replaced by party listeners. Now you in this agency, as well as in thousands of other agencies, will hire your cabinet heads, various party associates, incompetents who have no idea about fighting crime and corruption, but in public to represent themselves as great advocates of constitutionality and legality and the fight against corruption. In practice, none of this is gonna happen. Crime and corruption will flourish from day to day, the law in Serbia will be growing, but you will therefore be able to fill places in the state administration with your party personnel. That's the essence of your legislative work. You also care about the EU, EU standards and EU achievements – let us form as many agencies as possible, hire as many of our party personnel, spend as much state money as possible and, of course, hide from the citizens of Serbia that we have no intention of dealing with crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4494	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. The SRS parliamentary group has two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4495	Madam Vice President, I have to order you again, but that's what the law and the Rules of Procedure are for. 225 and 226. If anyone can, then you can certainly provide us with information from the interior minister, who I don't know if is currently in Serbia, because lately it's becoming very modern in this government that the ministers are gathering around the world, probably following the character and work of the president of Serbia, so they're constantly in some united European states and America, I guess, to justify that Cvetkovic's "five", above all for foreign policy. I agree with Mr. Batic that this "petic", as an assessment for the government, can only stand if it is academic calculation, means five to 10. The government has denied that it will enter a serious fight against organised crime and corruption. Here, we are now discussing the anti-corruption law. To this part, the government was obliged by the president of Serbia, who in that name made pedagogical, I am afraid perhaps more marketing than realistic, a move to deal with "mangupi" in its ranks. The government has pledged to protect journalists by some European standards and allow them to be reported freely. So "B92", known as the Serbian version of CNN, reports more than freely and has the support of all four "apocalypse riders", as they have called Natasu Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Biljana Kovacevic and Sonja Licht for miles. Studio "B" on the loose is right next to "B92", there is also somewhere "Fox", for the unknowns of the English language, in translation – "Lisca". They're free and protected, both Blic and Today. That's great. What's not great is that there seem to be media that are for some, and perhaps for the government itself, unsatisfactory or perhaps irrelevant. And I have to count the "Kurir" that everyone is secretly reading, and they are publicly disgusting him. Since we from the NS do not share the media on those who are or are not inclined to us, we are insisting on the freedom and protection of all media, I have to ask you - what happened today with "Kurir"? From the "Kurira" section, we were informed that this morning, when she saved the newsroom, the cleaning lady on the second floor found herself attached to a fireflies bomb, which turned out to be devastating strengths. If that bomb had exploded, probably within 100 meters, everything would have been wiped out, if I wasn't just talking about people from the "Kurira," "Glass," "Thunder." For those who do not know, the "Kurira" Directorate is located in the narrow center of the city, in Vlajkovic, meaning very close to the former Federal Assembly. With that, I think it's necessary for us to be here, and the citizens know what happened, too, from where that bomb came from at Curr. Otherwise, in June, they had a tip about a bomb that was fake. Luckily, there was no tip-off this time, only a bomb was found. So it's a serious attack on media freedom, a threat to the safety of citizens. I'm afraid it can be a message for the government itself, and also for the Assembly, if it chooses to, indeed, enter a serious fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4496	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4497	Article 225. Of course, the right and need for information. I would like to say something about what is going on with the students, what is happening in Belgrade these days, about student protests, which, despite the Committee's decision to accept the amendment given to the Education Law, continue to strike and seek a step further in concessions, ask for a more thorough consideration. Because, at the time the law was passed, the students were still in the euphoria of the post-five-octo-octobar revolution, convinced that every law that was passed would benefit them. We were at the time saying that such a law on higher education may, at the very least, call into question both full education and the final outcome of the educational process. Maybe someone who knows how, but not to go paranoid and so far, wants to finally put an end to our higher education system. It's possible that students are asking too much today, but that's what we haven't received from the delegation and the question is, because these are reference samples, whether students are produced enough competence. I don't think they were at the board president's today. They're going to some sort of gathering. They think it's legitimate to have students or proctors with them, they have their own student organisations that the law has provided for them. Often because of lobbying and election conditions in their organization, there is a rather undefined relationship of power, which can sometimes prevail in favour of a political decision, so that we do not have a homogeneous attitude. If it is already in such a state where it is not known exactly how far it can go in terms of student requirements, how much the government can provide and how well the Higher Education Act is finally a good and final solution for Serbia, it would be best for the government, instead of saying praises about its effectiveness, to reconsider what amendments to the Law on Higher Education should take place. Some colleges abuse autonomy, first of all, in inventing ways to get the students to take a few dollars. You can't have one simple confirmation today, here I came from the exam today, it was the final exam and all the students, the 21st exam passed. It's a test that's on the site and they open up a website, they read the questions, and somebody fills it out there, so there's no surprise. What's for their young brain 600 questions to overcome? That's how driving is more serious and getting new tests. However, I attended the act when they seek ordinary confidence they must pay 1,000 dinars. Anything you report to the counter 1,000, 1,500, 2,000, 2,500 dinars, and these points, what they have to pay, maybe a way to help them. First, to abolish the payment of points, if they are already moving to the next year and therefore have to pay 20,000 dinars, without the right to listen to teaching. Where they can be helped to listen to teaching, to be approved. Another variant where students can be helped, that those who have ranged since 2005... (SRS emissaries banging hands and pencils on the bench. God, decent MP groups, are so wonderful, smart, and successful. I'd like to ask you, Mrs. Comic, to hold them down a little while and I'll finish the story, or they'll figure out a minute for themselves. They're interesting, beautiful, smart, here's the perspective and the future of Serbia. They don't care about students. They care about their chatter. Another option is to help them do what the University of Stomatology did, one of the good solutions, where students enrolled under the old programme were allowed to pass tests on how regulated the law was for each year. So it's even done to them, that I can, instead of mandatory three, pass on any three exams. This is a way to help them and help students by giving them the right to take up and go through the old higher education system by the next semester. So, there are a few more possibilities to do something, because in a certain way students themselves are manipulated and abused when they are so-called. public debate opinion, practically, hasn't even heard. Thank you. You're a very good knocker. Keep up the good work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4498	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. Do you use the remaining time of the parliamentary group, or?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4499	I have one question, and I call, of course, on the Members of our Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the National Assembly. I ask the question, first of all, of the chairman, why for almost 10 minutes this pay phone was empty, that is, how did it happen that we allegedly heard some virtual speaker here, who must have introduced himself as a folk MP, so we had to tap out of the hundred and see if we were dreaming or it was reality. Turns out someone here was still standing behind this pay phone and saying something. This someone, apparently, this morning, even though he wasn't in this room listening to my exposure and went out for a pay phone to repeat his SRS position, but he forgot that he was no longer a member of the SRS but belonged to some virtual political party or parliamentary group. Do you know what's scary? It's a terrible thing that someone who has the calling of a university professor, speaks to students, dared to speak to students, and put himself in the position of protectors of students, a man who has no morals or who has shown by his conduct that he is immoral. Now, how this man can have any authority when he comes out to teach his students. They will certainly ask him, and if you are a thief, have you returned your term, have you stolen your mandate, what is this situation in Parliament, what have you done, on which list have you been on? He's gonna teach something out of his class there. However, as successful as he is in it or as professional as he is in it, so is the moral zero and no one will be able to listen to him or adopt any knowledge from him. It's likely that students in the future will be pounding on the table like we did to determine whether a professor is standing in front of them or if there's a virtual figure. I don't want to call her any names, let everyone call her what she's going through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4500	There was no breach of Article 104. On the basis of his Rules of Procedure, he sought and received a National MP, Milet Poscurica, and before him a National MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, before him, a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Everyone has exercised their right to get word from the Rules of Procedure. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is referred to by the MP Marina Ragush, who wants a word and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milan Avramovic, giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, reporting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. No one has the exclusiveity for a good and worthy man's life in this country and in this city. So, we all have the same right to talk and to worry, especially about academic citizens, who, unfortunately, have found the only modality by walking the streets of the city of Belgrade and trying to draw attention to themselves, to the increasingly difficult position of students at Belgrade University and to the increasingly problematic future of Serbian scientific thought. What I want to specify here is that I, as an MP, cannot truly carry out my duty, inform when the ruling majority will have in mind the idea that after eight years, the Committee for the Protection of Human and Minority Rights, and this is also part of the Corps, and that the competent ministries, the Prime Minister, give a concrete answer, what they will do to improve the lives of academic citizens and meet the requirements of students. So at what point and to what extent concrete measures will be taken to improve the conditions of the very desperate people we have, but indeed a very important obligation to think, because they represent what some future state should be built on. I hope, and I will use, of course, my remaining two minutes, that here we will still have a consensus on the following – yes, no matter what political option we belong to, we are not by definition enemies, nor do I want to undermine each other, but we are on the same task with the same goal that life in Serbia becomes a worthy man. What should be categorical here and had to be imperative is that different ideological paths meet only in one way, and that's the question of all the questions, that when we get out of this prestigious home, we come out with our heads up, not to hide our eyes from people who are trying so hard to survive a single Serbian day. In that category, unfortunately, we have in our incessant housing of academic citizens who, behold, have stepped into a vulnerable category of society. It's a great reminder for all of us, and for all of us, it's a great shame. So, the ruling majority, it is our basic subject and target that we constantly put each of our arguments on, slowly, one at a time, but surely, unfortunately, it doesn't cheer us up, you drop one test after another. Today they're academic citizens, tomorrow you're going to have a terribly big social problem, I apologize for this three seconds, because citizens won't be able to pay for the 60 percent gas collection. I'm sorry, it won't happen again. I've been over 14 seconds. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4502	I can answer a part of your question, or a request for information, and it's about "the Committee for the Protection of Human and Minority Rights". We can all propose amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 42, but I fully agree with you, and I believe that the co-operation of parliamentary groups should, until the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, establish a subcommittee with one of the committees, whether the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or any other, where it could be done, and then turn into an item – chapter of the Standing Committee and Article 43. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4503	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. To be clear, I would read in general this indent, where it is said: ''a gift is money, thing, law and service done without adequate compensation and any other benefit given to a functionor or a connected person in connection with the performance of a public function. '"I think the microphone's on. Here behind the word "data" I suggested that the words "or promised" be inserted in the amendment. What does it matter? Because, simply, the action itself does not take place in such a simple way. Before that happens, someone needs to know something and make a promise to someone to get their job done. So if this were to be inserted in, this law would be more precise, more complete, and it would have one width to warn such things. This neither changes the meaning of the law nor violates any text, but certainly gives more precise meaning to the law. The reason for this amendment is the case that took place twenty days ago – reading the reports of a group of people working on this type of work in Zrenjanin, with careful analysis I saw how these things were going. Before that even happened before those people took the money, there were certain kinds of promises. So somebody knew what attractive building land was, and they got interested in it, and then they promised to make up for it if he got that land for his construction. That's why I think this word "or promised" is very important because it defines and completes this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4504	Anyone else want a word? The word has a letter from Natasa Jovanovic, so Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4505	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps, Mrs Malovic, at some point will seem to you, but just to make it seem, since you are the new DS minister, that Serbian radicals are exaggerating. As far as we are not exaggerating and how much with the abundance of data and arguments we could get out, as started by fellow Martinovic, in the sense that this law is truly inapplicable and that it should serve to make the alleged state account against crime, and in reality it will not happen, only some of the examples here are mentioned. If we start now from the fact that many politicians, perhaps less famous to the public, in some local environments, enormous rich people, we know that citizens trust us, we'll come out with that data and we'll prepare huge documentation, as far as that goes. We've had a past session here, now I'm talking about Mr. Dimitrijevic's amendment, because it's great creamworth, because he warned of the possibility – that someone was promised some kind of profit, a gift, something that he would enjoy as a bearer of function. Right? Indeed, a colleague of Dimitrijevic noticed well. However, if you had accepted his amendment, you would certainly not have sanctioned it, because it is so obvious at every step. How honest and how high the morale of the members and officials of the SRS is, now that we've cleaned up and we've had our party, I'm embarrassed because my colleague Markovic is in the O.R., but here, I'll tell you on his case. When a law on preventing conflicts of interest was adopted in the exercise of public office, indeed, shortly afterwards, and I must say that Mr. Markovic is the Secretary-General of our Executive Board, the Council of the Municipality of Zemun, the MP, and what would be said to be God's justice being persecuted by the Dosovo regime, because of his honorable work, he told me quite frankly – that from the Mayor of Corfu, because I am picking up the Zemun municipality, as a prominent radical and official, he received a five-star bullet gift from the mayor. He was referring to it, you really need to take it seriously, to report it to the Committee on Conflict of Interest and to fill it out in that annual report. You can laugh now, now I'm talking for the first time and it's embarrassing to a man, but I just want to tell him how honest he is and what every Serbian radical is, the one who hasn't cut into some forms of arrogant behavior and obsessing, as Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic did. You see, on the other hand, we, I guess like you, use the possibility that we have communication over so-called. The numbers the party is going to... Of course, based on what you're going to get out of your pocket to pay for the use of mobile phones. Today, Mr. Martinovic mentioned several times our prominent scientist Slobodan Jovanovic. He was also an essayist, and as a literary critic, but as a politician and a lawyer he dealt most with human tragedies and what could be saddened by the fall of morality in a human being. How tragic this example can be. I asked for concrete information because of the fact that, in the worst possible way, he was attacked by these former SRS members, Belgrade Radical President Nemanja Sarovic. So, I got the information. Since Mr Vukic told one of the print media in Belgrade or the media he has complete control over, and certainly not an opposition note (which was nicely noted by his colleague Vukicevic), I received information, not only that he did not turn off his phone from the SRS, but besides all these 400,000-euro bills, we have bills coming in because he thus arranged it with individuals on his cheek, whatever it means, (I am sorry to read this information from his mobile phone). Be careful, both you Serbian radicals and you Serbian radicals, the honorary members of the SRS who live in all towns and municipalities in Serbia, I must say that they all have a limited amount of 500 dinars, these are mostly ordinary people radicals and officials, each month making an account, both for me as chairman of the Forest District Committee and for Mr. Munjic and so on, Mr. Jojic, for their spent impulses. Mr., former SRS Secretary-General, who lives modestly (I read yesterday in politics) of 70,000 salaries received six months as former SRS MP, or as someone who used his right, made an account for July 56,711,9 dinars, for August 31,128,60 dinars, for September 63,509,00 dinars. Is it small?- I'm sorry. In total, for all three months it's 151,349,50 dinars! Please, as the famous Free Jovanovic said, can a human tragedy go, not to say regret, in every way? Do you understand how he's trying to manipulate voters today and how some say they profile a political scene? And aside from his political dad being talented in 60 years. I really found out, the other day, from Mr. Mirovic that he was talented, because a man graduated from 56 years of law school. So it's a great talent -- that someone has such concentration in those years and that it starts from the Roman, from the Introduction to the Right, so that there is a final exam. But imagine, you colleagues, especially you, it doesn't matter, that I'm absorbing radicals, as a young colleague, a young colleague or a colleague of the Wolf, because of whom I got a warning the other day, but it doesn't matter, and I paid my fine of 3,000 dinars, which you really live off of your parliamentary salary, how you can think differently. How can you accept as reality what is an illusion, that people who are not MPs sit here and give them legitimacy. Then wonder where your morale is. It is clear here that there is no morale for those who did it, above all, Dr Vojislav Seselj. They betrayed him, stabbed him in the back, robbed a party whose founder and president are so playing with what was created for 18 years. Take it from the fact that you would love someone like that in your ranks, that he's so debauched and blasphemy. You have to put up with Gilas and it's only a matter of time. I see and hear from my colleague, Sarovic, that he left today's session of the City Assembly. Before that, what was most important in each of us's lives, he cursed our councilman, Mr. Zoran Ognjanovic, so Gilas returned to the O.R., and apologized. So he saw that Serbian radicals in the City Assembly were determined, unique, regardless of what some expected differently and only two remained from 13 points of the agenda, as Voja Seselj would say – not a stone on the stone. Therefore, we must here only because of the morale and the difficult situation in which our citizens live and because of our future, and how someone used to like to run into it from the door before, to take a swing, to go for a pay phone, to say, because of the future of the Serbian children, but really responsible Serbian radicals, the Sheschels' radicals, to say that we will publicly stamp any such procedure. If you think we're going to keep our mouths shut about the fact that you're involved in someone's abuse or in the past time that he's been misusing the function as a carrier of one of the functions, you're wrong. In addition to these criminal charges, you know, one day they're gonna have to have state and judicial restrictions on doing their job. There is that moral responsibility and hypocrisis that occurs in people mentioned earlier by counterpart Pop-Lazic. That's what citizens recognize. We all know who we are and how we live in our midst. Do you think that the last few months or half of the year has been easy for me as a born Kragujevchan, as someone who is a member of the party, here I am now entering 17 years of my membership, to defend in front of Veroljub Stevanović, in front of the SDP or DS committees the enormous capital that is acquired in the Bajcetin Meat Community. And they're making fairies and I don't know what. You know, we can't talk that way here, like all of us, who are legitimate representatives chosen from the list and some citizens. Now we're talking about criminals, and then you and some of them want to protect the state from crime and corruption. That's impossible. You see who did this, just those people who, but rightly, then speaking about the SRS programme said that the basic concept of our programme is to fight crime and corruption. I am now not surprised by some things, because this role of an energetic fighter in front of the SRS list - Dr Vojislav Seselj, against crime and corruption has taken over Dragan Todorovic. When I return the film and remember all the speeches, all the participants from the SRS rally in all of Serbia, then I see that Mr. Todorovic was putting an accent on the fight against crime and corruption. Maybe some of the participants didn't care or said – well, it doesn't matter, we'll talk about it like Nikolic did. You know, it's nice for a woman to have a nice haircut, get dressed up, those people stand there and you know what a constituency is, and there will be millions who support the SRS, who know that we are humble and, above all, moral and honest people. It's a good thing it all happened, but it's not a good thing that you who participate in it don't brand the behavior of individuals who are the bearers of certain political functions or think they are, and in fact, in real political life, they're nothing. As far as I can see and observe you and all the political parties, especially the opposition, so everyone despises such actions. People won't say it out loud, but that cry, wow, I haven't heard from Kostunica in 15 days, so where's Velya? They will not, for they know, but whoever betrays once and for all will betray. Who's gonna make any kind of arrangement and talk to them? As none of us in real political life, who live an honest life of citizens and share the fate of the people, will accept that anyone, who does public work, has one single dinar benefit. This story and this fine lesson of an honest soul and a morally clean man, such as Mr. Markovic, should be an indication to every man, anyone who does public work to think in such a way and to do so for his country and for his people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4506	Thank you. On the amendment, the People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4507	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the agenda one of the, we can freely say, the most important law to be passed in the process of implementing the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. We adopted this strategy as the National Assembly in 2005, with one clear ambition, that the state has a goal, has concrete measures in a decisive, efficient and sustainable fight against this monster that devours the very foundations of the state. All political parties then and after that in parliamentary campaigns, in local elections campaigns, highlighted the importance of fighting corruption as something not only recognised by citizens as a priority, but as something a serious state must free itself if it wants to achieve justice and its institutions to function effectively. Unfortunately, I must say, at the very exposé of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, there is serious doubt that the fight against crime and corruption is at the top of the government's priorities. In six points defined in the exposé as the key foundation of the future government's programme, the fight against crime and corruption is fifth. It was a surprise for all of us who were then discussing when Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic presented and represented the programme of the future Government to the National Assembly. By doing so, the dilemma has opened that the fight against crime and corruption in the government's politics will be ranked. In that sense, this amendment should also be a single correction in efforts to go against crime and corruption through the adoption of the law on fighting crime and corruption, as I said, against this great evil for the state. We all know, all citizens know that the methods of corruption in society are such that they are to the most extent secret, that they are hidden from the eyes of the public. That the pressures that aim to carry out corruptive activity are likely to violate the law in this way, in order to exercise one's right, to, in the end of the line, achieve someone's right in a faster way, something far from the public's eyes. Let's not have a dilemma that the issue of gifts can be in the function of corruption. It is here in the law defined as an act of giving gifts, but I assure you, I believe that Mrs Malovic also had the opportunity to analyse all the research that deals with the issue of corruption, that this kind of gift promise for a corrupt operation is something that is largely present in the structure of corruption. And, the effort of our esteemed colleague from the DSS parliamentary group Milan Dimitrijevic, is that this amendment extends the space for action in the fight against corruption to what may be naked, and what is, in fact, the right way of corrupting activities. The promise of a gift certainly is. And in that sense, the very surprising explanation given by the Government when it rejected this amendment literally reads: "We believe that such a determined analysis does not cover the promise of money, rights and services, as proposed by the amendment." Simply, it would be interesting to hear where that opinion came from, based on which relevant data it was formed? How does this term itself be interpreted, and how did the Ministry of Justice come to interpret corruption in this way when it comes to a gift? There are many issues that have been raised when it comes to fighting corruption. Today we had a set of laws that had a series of contradictions and a series of illogicalities. I believe that these amendments are precisely on the verge of repairing a set of laws, because we all here have supported the adoption of a National Anti-Corruption Strategy, and it would be a shame to come up with one bad law, which will not have good public effects. The goal is for the opposition and we to raise the issue of fighting crime and corruption to a much higher level of priority, and that is not the case with government policy, so that this government is specifically starting to work. We are witnessing that many relevant institutions have come out with estimates that Serbia has fallen on a scale that measures the fight against crime and corruption, compared to the previous period. It's just saying that in Serbia there is no serious fight against crime and corruption, i.e. that she's gone. We haven't seen any other measures in that fight since the government was formed, as we haven't had the opportunity to see any of those basic points from Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's programme, those six points, but we've only seen problems, starting from European integration, to policies towards KIM, strengthening the economy, as indicated here, to social policy, non-freezing of the SAA, unilateral application by the state, acceptance of EULEX past the Assembly and Government, the addition of gas prices, telecommunications services, the termination of concessions, I think, a number of things. I am taking this opportunity to ask the Honorable President again to invite the Prime Minister to come to the National Assembly and lead a serious, fundamental discussion, to discuss together a number of issues, which are open, and to give Serbian citizens the answers to all these questions. First of all, to get the most important answer – what is the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on all these issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4508	Is anyone else picking up? Here you go, Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4509	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I fear a kind of misunderstanding has occurred here by the government, according to Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. In fact, to be more specific and more than clear, the seventh position, Article 2, says what a gift is: 'The gift is money, thing, law and service done without adequate compensation and any other benefit given to the functionor or connected person in connection with the performance of public office. '"This amendment, Milorad Dimitrijevic, speaks not only of the given things, but also of the promised. Can we accept that there is also prevention in the case of promised things in the form of money or other bribes? In an explanation of why it does not accept this amendment, the Government says that it does not accept the amendment for the reason that this and that provision are the meaning of the term 'gift', which is used in the text of the bill's proposal, to specify exactly what 'gift' is, so it is the opinion that the meaning of such a stated term does not include the promise of money, rights, services, etc. No one says it covers. We're just adding one new thing that we're thinking about, and that's a promise. If someone has promised money or service, it should also be covered by a certain type of sanctioning. It's the meaning of this amendment, and it spreads and promotes the whole idea of this, more than necessary, law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4510	According to the Rules of Procedure, Milorad Buha is reporting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to inform the public that today at 13 o'clock a session of the Committee on Industry was held at which we discussed information from the Ministry of Mining and Energy on the purchase of natural gas prices. In this assembly, in the last two or three days, we have heard major remarks about the government's decision to increase the price of gas for households by 60%. As a result, we asked the Ministry of Mining and Energy to provide us with all relevant data related to the price of natural gas, especially the price structure for households. At this price of 60% of the household, they cannot meet the obligations that will follow immediately after this increase. The Minister of Mining and Energy has provided certain information concerning the submission of a request by the public company "Srbigas". Many members of the Committee, as well as other MPs, have been involved in the discussion. We found on the Committee that this price is unacceptable and asked the Ministry of Mining and Energy to provide all information on the price, and direct and indirect costs on the basis of which the price of natural gas is formed. In addition, we have estimated that all other factors that have a significant impact on price formation, starting with all other ways that are relevant for the price, of what the world's top price is right now, what will happen to the price in the emerging period, given that consumption, the increase will surely follow in the emerging period. What will the government do, first of all, to keep this price down, and what will it mean if the world's top price, is currently around $532, is 600, 700, and who knows how much more? We have asked the Government and the Ministry of Mining and Energy to establish, as an emergency procedure, a national programme and plan, how to reduce this price, how to help households, let's say, turn that compensation for spent gas into a 12-month fee and thus help households. On the other hand, let's see how to reduce certain direct and indirect costs in this structure. In addition, we realized that the existing tariff system must be reviewed and see what to do within that existing system to help citizens. What we have assessed as unacceptable is the situation that a debt to the gas supplier is included in the existing price, so that those households that regularly paid for the gas consumption fee will be damaged in relation to those who have been disorderly paid. The ministry and government have accepted the fact that an existing debt that is not small is installed within the calculation price. We asked, on behalf of the Committee, that the Ministry assess what would happen on the world market, regarding the price of gas. We have a situation that oil prices were high a month ago and the price was around 147, now 72. Gas prices are rising. The government can't passively observe all this. Our citizens can't pay this high price for gas. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Article 78, we have requested further information from the Ministry. We expect the Ministry, looking at this situation, to provide additional information within a few days, and then, after all, when we sum up the results, we will inform the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4512	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Marash, then Ms. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4513	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I've come to you for an article. 225 and 226, and I wanted to say about what was heard from the last discussion and what Ms. Marina Ragush had just started. The LDP parliamentary group is in accordance with Article 199. The Rules of Procedure, sent a written request to the President of the Assembly, asking for Mr Skundric, Minister of Energy to come to the Assembly and to try to sort of discuss this drastic gas collection, to see what are the reasons why he was so expensive. We're glad the minister's here. However, he came to the Industry Committee, but that does not diminish the conclusions that we came to after that conversation. In addition to regretting Minister Skundric and his claim that it is inevitable to collect gas 60%, we have not received answers to many other questions, which LDP MPs first asked. We didn't get an answer to the key questions – who allowed 25% of the total Yugorosgas actions in 2007 which is the mediator, based on a gas-naphtha agreement (which we didn't know about, when you discussed and when you adopted it) with the Russian Federation, to build highway pipelines across Serbia?- I'm sorry. "Progress Gas Trading" had 25% action, NIS sent a request to the government, and in 2007, the government did not respond to it and the Russians became, more specifically, "Gasprom", via its Austrian firm, 75% "Yugorosgas". What does it matter? Because "Yugorosgas", according to Minister Skundric, charges 4% each time we buy gas from the Russians, plus VAT, which means 5% goes to the middleman's account. Also, we did not get an answer why Serbia, the only one who has otherwise given the most favourable stake to the Russian side, has the most unfavourable condition when buying gas, or no mediator takes 5%, except in Serbia. We also didn't get an answer – which is why in the surrounding countries is cheaper gas. We are told that some countries have their own resources, but BiH has no resources, BiH has eight cents cheaper gas per cubic. We have not received answers to many other questions. I don't know if you know that, but in the price of gas from these 60% purchases, the old debt came in. There's an old debt service. This means that those citizens who have paid for the past few years of gas, are now paying back the debt that "Srbigas"... (President: Time, Mr. Marash. )......................................................................................................... It has to do with the Russian "Gasprom". So they're paying for that gas again. Of course, in order for all this to end only on criticism, we have sent a proposal to the Minister on behalf of the LDP MPs, but all the other MPs of the opposition and those present agreed – it is necessary to revise the price of gas. We're aware of the economic justification of the collection, but let's get rid of the service of the old debt, let's change the middleman or let the middleman cut the commission, so it won't be the biggest possible, that 5%, and that'll make the gas cut, and that'll make the citizens, for which the heat season started, pay cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4514	Thank you. Ms. Marina Ragush, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4515	Madam President, thank you. On the basis of Art. 225 and 226. I want to talk to the Rules of Procedure about something that's been extremely incorrect after all. So, the Energy Committee has held up, it's a vital question of life, no, it's not a colleague's notice, you'll hear a specific question in the end. It's my choice and a matter of style colors to explain members 225 and 226, and I'm asking the president to keep order in the O.R. These are very important issues and the style differences here should be neglected, and I should continue where Mr. Maras left off, because there was a very gallant discussion on that committee. We tried to find out which categories of society will be able to single out certain gas financing that has accumulated 60% and will definitely cause a terrible social impact on the growing and more vulnerable population categories in Serbia. Of course, we did not get answers to our questions, and we came up with concrete data that 733,000 are officially unemployed people in Serbia, that the lowest age disability pension is 9,715 dinar, the lowest pension of farmers is 7,347 dinar, that average earnings, according to official data from the Republic Statistics Office, are 33,131 dinar. So, with concrete data, we went to the minister and said, well, how could you make such a prediction and approve a 60% pick-up? Who will be able to pay you the price of gas without saying that it also affects the remote heating system that this energy uses without talking about it and that Professor Bajec announces 12% of inflation. So you're having social unrest, because it's simply a threat to people's existence. On this occasion, without coming out of context, the members of the SRS are asking, and also because of the public, because we were not in the media, unfortunately, the media were reporting on Mr Cank, and we are all looking forward to a press conference Monday to talk about organised crime in this area, our particular question is now – what is the government planning specifically to do to ensure the social security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4516	Thank you. Mr. Markovic has the word. The matter will be forwarded to the government and to the Secretary of Staff.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 198. In 225 and 226, I would like to ask the Minister of Energy and the ministries who decide on these matters a few questions. First, what's the price of domestic gas? In addition to importing gas through the pipeline at the entrance to Horgos, we have sites that are exploited, especially here in Vojvodina. Secondly, what is the price weight, because the price between import gas and domestic gas is different in favour of domestic gas, and for natural gas is made as it is made for both oil and all other energies.? The weighted price goes towards consumers. Third, how much is the country's natural gas margin to be spent? Fourthly, since we are already treating consumers this way, especially with the households you've brought from the Bulldozer of the Revolution, we refer to the border of existence, why do not domestic consumers have domestic gas that has been exploited from domestic sites? One more question - what are the receipts, not wages, but what are the receipts of the Director General of Jugorosgas? I have informal information that the monthly CEO of Jugorosgas puts in his pocket 9,000 euros. I pray that these questions be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4518	Thank you. Issues will be passed on to the government's resolute ministry. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4519	Thank you, Madam President. Today is World Day Against Poverty. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was also involved in marking this day, with a round table on which the topic was "Fight Against Poverty" in the House of National Assembly today. Of course, the host of this meeting was supposed to be the Committee on Poverty Reduction, but since he was not formed within five months, since this is not the topic to be dealt with, the Committee on Labour and Social Policy has taken over this duty and thank him for, in any way, entering this story. And the Serbian government has become involved in marking this day in a very interesting way. Gas is up 60%, telephone subscription from 74 to 75 dinars jumped to 240 dinars, they say it's 70%, meat is 22%, dry-meat products 9.9%, sugar and tobacco at 9.5%, electricity 8.8%, school supplies and books 6%, traffic 4.2%, will be a little three minutes to talk about it further. The employers' union warned the Serbian government that this way, by raising the price of gas and raising the price of telephone impulses, it additionally burdens all citizens of Serbia, burdens the economy that has just started and comes to the conclusion that we will not even see these so-wanted investments. It's just that people won't be interested in getting into this country at all. I have to remind myself that the increase in gas prices comes the moment when the world market oil price is the lowest in the last few years, and when the prices of all ores and all other power plants are exactly in one descending path. Then the question arises, and my colleagues have repeatedly made the topic, as the minister explained the price hike. The government says to itself that it is socially responsible, and this finding is based on the fact that it has increased pensioners by 10%. The simple question is, does the government think that pensioners will live better if their pensions are up 10% and their costs are up 100%. Statistics further say research, too, that at the end of October 2007, 6% of Serbia's population was below the poverty line. Today is not 6%, gentlemen, but 10%. That is what Lance Clark, a UN co-ordinator in Serbia, also found at the rally today. Of course, all the things I'm saying today know citizens a lot better than all of us here. Many citizens called and told us that they also called RTS, that they were filling the Belgrade chronicle with their questions, and no question was allowed to go public. That is why they asked DSS MPs to open the issue and thus get at least an answer that we will also receive when it arrives to present to the public. I ask, what measures will the Serbian government use to achieve a strategy against poverty, which was made before three governments, this is the fourth government to inherit that strategy, so that the number of people in this country who do not have food is reduced in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4520	Mr. Lapcevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4521	Dear President, I'm reporting under Article 226. A moment ago, my predecessors spoke about what was on the Committee on Industry and Energy and the explanation given to us by the gas-gathering minister, to say the least, is unacceptable for us. In fact, the minister said the gas price is being harmonised at a 12-month level and that he had to collect at the moment. In doing so, he did not answer the question, if that is the case, and it is known that the price of oil has jumped over 130, 140 dollars early in the year, why did not, when the government was formed in early July, announce to Serbian citizens that in September or October, gas will jump 60%, so that people can prepare in time and find an alternative solution during the heating season. It is totally unacceptable and unacceptable that on October 15th, when the warm season begins, you tell Serbian citizens that the price of gas will be 60% higher in the future. In this way, you bring them into an unexplainable situation, that those who do not have another solution to warm up their premises, especially in Vojvodina and central Serbia, must now seek an alternative solution, or move on to solid fuel. This means new investments or going after another worse measure that can completely destroy Serbia's energy system, which is the transition to electricity heating, which at this point is cheaper than gas heating, so the consequences may be that we do not have electricity during this year in crisis days, i.e. in the coldest days of winter. In what way will the Ministry of Energy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia help the poorest citizens of Serbia overcome this problem that has been caused them by a great build-up of gas? The most beautiful gift they could get from the socially responsible government and the minister from the socially responsible party is to collect their gas by 60%. It will also collect remote heating in almost all Serbian cities by at least 40 to 50%, which will say, with 100% increase in telecommunications services, that inflation, according to independent analysts, on independent media, will be only 1% higher than it was projected. Is that possible? I don't think so. I demand a response from the Ministry of Energy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, how will inflation be contained, how will it help the poorest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4522	Mr Milan Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4523	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, since I was a participant of the Committee on Industry, I am not a member of the Committee, there were only five members of the Committee, which is interesting, I would just like to inform you and for the sake of the public, it is true that a commission is paid 4%. On my question – and what was received in return by our country, it has been said that our country is freed from looking for a guarantee from banks, and also does not pay for the penalty on an unsettled amount of contracted gas. That is, so viewers and MPs would know, because the predecessors knewly or unconsciously avoided saying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4524	Thank you. The People's MP, Verica Radeta, submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter 2 and Article 2 be replaced. 3 to 27 are deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the Verse want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of the proposal for this law which is otherwise unnecessary, I will say later and for what reason, it is written as the Rules of Procedure, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law. Madam Minister, you say: "The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Agency law is contained in Article 6(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.' For the public, Article 6(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The existence of conflict of interest and responsibility in its resolution is determined by the Constitution and by law. As a lawyer with years of experience, I don't see a connection between this member and the bill. In addition, Article 97, point 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed, you say, that the Republic of Serbia is regulating and providing for the "organisation, jurisdiction and work of the republican authorities". That is true, as it is true that, just proposing a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, you have violated Article 97 of point 16. The constitution, because this agency, or any agency, is arranged the way you predicted this law, can't be, or is, a republican body. It is known which are the Republic's organs, regulated by the Constitution, and besides that, nothing else can be a republican organ. So, we cannot arbitraryly, yes, all issues need to be resolved, all problems in society need to be solved, but all of this is possible within the framework of existing state bodies. We do not have the opportunity to pass any laws, in fact, we must not pass any laws that are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The position of the SRS parliamentary group on this law has been expressed through our amendments and when we studied this text, then we were thinking in what way the amendments to react. Should we write just one amendment and say to delete everything from title to end or go individually to delete each member of the law? Then we defined ourselves as doing it in chapters, to propose, through our amendments, that every member of this bill be deleted. So if we have something that is absolutely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then we cannot engage in the very text of this proposal or any other bill, because it is enough that we want to form something that has no basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, this amendment, which I have filed on behalf of the parliamentary group, refers to the article. From 3 to 27, i.e. the proposal to delete those members, this chapter speaks in general about the Agency, among other things, to state what would be the jurisdiction of that non-constitutional agency. He says, therefore, that he is overseeing the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. How's the surveillance really not clear to me, and it doesn't say anywhere in the law?- I'm sorry. What does it even mean to watch over, monitor and monitor Serbian radical corruption in Serbia, we warn of specific cases, but what it is worth when it is in the jurisdiction of those who hold power in Serbia! Then – it initiates the procedure and sets out measures for the violation of this law; it resolves the conflict of interest; it carries out affairs in accordance with the law governing the financing of political parties, gives opinions and instructions for the implementation of this law; it provides initiatives to amend and adopt regulations in the field of combating corruption, delivers opinions on the implementation of the Strategy, the Action Plan and sectoral action plans, etc. So, all in all, this is, I'm sorry for the expression, the beating of an empty straw. This has nothing to do with anything, as we have so far had various commissions, agencies you've formed in the last eight years, always with the same reason that you don't have enough ministries, to put all those responsible party workers on certain functions, so now you're going to form agencies, commissions, directors, I don't know what not, and none of it has, I'd say, useful value. The same case will be with this agency which, most importantly, has a director, this director, I don't know why, will receive a salary equal to the minister's salary, and I'm saying that besides you, no one in this room knows what the ministers' salaries are today, because it's a state secret, which is amazing, but that's true. This agency should (now not read all members individually, nor from this part of which I have made objections) to do what the Anti-Corruption Commission is doing. We've had this commission in action for years. The president of the commission is often making remarks in the media, presenting concrete cases of corruption at the top of the government. Most of the time, I listened to him talk about Minister Dinkic, etc. In fact, she was also informing the Assembly, and we have often had reports from that commission, but unfortunately, we never discussed it. And now, at this point, not getting into whether this commission is right and how right is the question being asked – is this commission being removed and formed by someone new just because someone dared to call Mladjan Dinkic? And this someone, in a way, should belong to the ruling coalition, one or the previous one, each, in any case. We have an audit committee. Do you know what this commission has done so far and how long it's only been on paper, and it hasn't been formed at all in real life? What did the Antimonopoly Commission do? The other day, a lady who is the chairman of the press commission says the commission cannot work because of the extreme pressures of certain tycoons in Serbia and cannot say which are tycoons. What was the purpose of this commission, and if anyone, do you know, because she confided in the government, was also supposed to tell the Assembly, who are monopolies in Serbia, who are tycoons that don't allow someone, what you called a state body, although under the Constitution can't be, but nevertheless, there is a state and people paying them to do their job, and we don't know. Now we know that she dared say, but if we knew who these tycoons are or who that tycoon is, we would help her, now we would protect her from that tycoon or those tycoons. We have a conflict of interest committee. What did that board do and what could it have done in the first place? Let's not talk about how members of this House also violate the orders of the Committee on Conflict of Interest, then how can we expect to respect them if those who voted to pass this law do not respect them? You said you did not accept this amendment and the other amendments, this argument was given to fellow Martinovic, for the reason that you believe that the bill educates the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is in accordance with Article 97 point 16. The Constitution, then, is not what it is. Among other things, the organisation, competence and work of the republican authorities. There are also examples that the laws are educated by independent and independent state bodies, such as the Commissioner for Public Information, which is educated under the Law on Free Access to Information. So, you have written an example of the only institution that, indeed, as much as Mr. Sabic has to admit, is doing quite a bit of work in as much volume as it is being provided with information that we cannot all get, any citizen of Serbia who is interested in some information. Why didn't you cite this commission as an example, which I just cited? We know that there are a large number of laws that this country, or this Parliament, should pass because it is a shortcut to the EU, and you present each of these laws to us as a law of vital importance. There's also a seal protection law on that list. It'll probably be an emergency procedure someday, no matter what the seals are in Serbia, but it needs the law. So you need to take the bill a little more seriously, you need to make sure that you respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and tell your European friends that you can't pass laws that don't comply with the text that's between these two covers. They won't accept it either. If you pass a law that will fall in the Constitutional Court, then what will those who force you to pass such laws tell you? I still have to say what the composition of the Agency's Committee will be, who is all proposing these nine members: the Administrative Committee of the Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Supreme Cassation Court, who is not there, the State Auditing Institution, which started working yesterday, the Citizens' Protector and the Information Commissioner, the Social-Economic Council, which is doing so well, we listened to just before and as expensive as possible, so that there is reason to appear with this proposal, the Law Chamber of Serbia, the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, through a joint agreement. So this future composition speaks of how much this committee does not speak personally but rather the way it will be formed, does not give any assurances and any certainty that, even though unconstitutional, this committee will do something serious. Not only do you violate the Constitution when proposing laws, I mean the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and when I say it, I mean the assembly majority, but you also support those who violate the Constitution. Last night, walking through the canals, I accidentally ran into a show, I only stayed a few minutes, because I heard someone trying as a lawyer to explain how they took the mandates of the SRS, better said, kidnapped. Then this one, who is a lawyer, but it is obvious that legal experience has been gained by London cafes or by helping builders to build a plaster, I respect this job very much and these people, or perhaps legal practice has been gained by tasting expensive wines, mostly by the caller, says that the SRS is by municipalities in various coalitions and by "yellows", and by G17, and by the SPS, with LDP, with everyone whose committees in some municipalities voted in accordance with the Constitution and according to the law. Then he was asked a question – what about the mandates in Parliament, what about the resignations signed by the MPs? Of course, he avoided the answer, he thought skillfully, but very poorly, so he said, "You know, any resignation can and can be called off, it's written in law." The Constitution, Article 102(2), says: "The MP is free to, under the conditions of a certain law, unrevocably place his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose proposal has been elected as a member of the People's Parliament. 'So, irrevocably! The law didn't regulate this matter. In this case, only the Constitution must apply, because the law only regulated mandates when it comes to local self-government. I'm done. I can see the time's up. I want to tell my colleagues from the ruling majority, to ask them to, when they already support those who violate the Constitution in this way by taking the mandates, at least not to pass new laws that are contrary to the Constitution. You know, when it comes to breaking the Constitution, it's not in your skin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4526	The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4527	I will read what the member of the law reads: It says: "The members of the Agency's Board shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal: the Administrative Committee of the Assembly; the President of the Republic; the Government; the Supreme Cassation Court; the State Audit Institutions; the Protector of Citizens and the Trustees of Information through a common agreement; the Social and Economic Council; the Law Chamber of Serbia, the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, through a common agreement". He now says: "A candidate for a member of the Committee of the Agency, who is proposed by the proposing position... '"after all, that's not what I've put the amendment on behalf of the DSS. In fact, I do not think it is necessary for the President of the Republic, the Protector of Citizens or the Trustee to make their proposals for members of the Committee of the Agency, precisely because, unless they were to make their proposals, this body would be more independent. And an independent body in the fight against corruption and crime is certainly the ideal of any democratic government anywhere in the world. In the way it was given in the bill, it is the impression that the proposing forms a body that he fears in advance and wants to protect himself by controlling it. In fact, it fits into this one general picture that remains, not just for me, but, I see, and in the professional public, it's just that, behind this whole set of united laws, it's just that it's all got a nice facade, and that everything that's done behind that facade stays completely uncircumcised, that nothing gets touched or touched. In fact, it's as if the government doesn't want to deal with crime and corruption at all. It's clear from the argument given by the government, translated a little bit differently, even more subtlely explained it to me, but when all of this translates, I get this answer: 'We form the body, we want to control it. ''Of course, it was clear to me from the prime minister's exposé, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, who put the fight against crime and corruption only in fifth place. This shows the government's relationship to this extremely important problem that appears in our country, which really puts our country in transition very problematicly in one of the last places on the corruption list. It seems more and more to me that, in fact, the government wants to form this body so that it can control its coalition partners and use it for political purposes. For days we've been seeing through the media as much as any corruption affair appears for many members of the government, so I think it's good that the government (which forms this body), and the President of the Republic, and the Trustee and everyone else, is controlling this so that those who are not loyal can shut down from their ranks and send to another place that the state makes as an institution where those who break the law go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4528	Mr Krasic came forward about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4529	I don't think the promoter understood the first remark Mr. Martinovic made when opening the discussion on the details, from this pay phone, as regards Article 1. It's a bill of law. Of course, since you refused that amendment of his, you made an effort to write something. However, all what you have written has been practically confirmed in Article 9. Proposal for a law, confirmed in terms of denial. What's this about? Who are the state authorities, what is their name and competence in the system to divide the authorities in the Republic of Serbia, which is in accordance with the Constitution, is prescribed. The state body is: National Assembly, President of the Republic, Government, in this system are also located ministries as authorities of state administration, state authorities, and we have a whole system so-called. Justice: Public prosecutors, courts, we have the Guardian of Citizens as a state body, and he became a constitutional category. Maybe I skipped another organ, NBS, and I think there's a provision on the military, and there's a Constitutional Court as something specific. That's where the list of state authorities ends. What is the characteristic of these bodies is that in the legal procedure they are being brought to them. The National Assembly, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, when the election of 250 elected MPs is completed, makes up a legislative state body called the National Assembly. The government is chosen by the National Assembly, not to go into it, but the National Assembly is chosen by some criteria. As for the ministries, by election for the minister, the second system of laws, all those working in the ministry are state officials and deputies, in the ministry as a state body. As for the courts and the prosecution, I'm going to have to skip this, because we're just about to get a consensus with the Constitution and that election, but it's about the election procedure. Is it a competition? Is it an authorized promoter? You see, for the Prime Minister, the proposed prime minister is the President of the Republic. For the election of Prime Minister candidate for Prime Minister, the election is being made. There's one continuity and one set of state authorities. As you can see, the National Assembly is a hat for all or the top of the pyramid and everything goes down. For what? Because of sovereignty and the right to organise power in some territory in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Similar attempts as mentioned in Article 9 have been made in our practice. This concerns the National Educational Council, as they were called, I don't know where the proposing system exists, in order not only to prevent a conflict of interest, but to express some specificities, so it is according to these promoters. That's wrong. And RRA, we have some other choices, it's all wrong. So the law has made an unconstitutional variant, but it's also wrong. We just don't have luck with those organs, if I can say so; and RRA, and her for telecommunications, and these educational advices etc. And I'm not telling you what kind of circus it was to select 26 members of that council, so these are proposing this much, and these so many, mathematicians this much, chemists this much, physicists this much, disaster, funny. Six times there was a repeat of the election here, so in the end the Assembly didn't know which way to vote, as Verica said. So something can't be a state organ if it's chosen this way. If they're proposing, and now that I'm not quoting here, there are nine proposings, that's not the way to choose. We've got a bit of a weird provision on the Constitutional Court's election. I'm not saying it doesn't exist, France has something similar, tripartite, etc. There's always a little bit of spice in our house, so it turns around. How much? Just enough that it doesn't work or that it's funny. We have a Constitutional Court which has no 15 members, but seems to me, 10; five has chosen the National Assembly from the list delivered by the president, five has chosen the president from the list given by the National Assembly. Do you know what happened? It happened that Dragan Todorovic sued the president of Serbia for something he said during the election campaign, totally failed Tadic, was deceived by someone, totally. How does it not fail? Hope, I figured you out, yeah, Boris Tadic is the most beautiful, the smartest, can I move on? Now let's go, because I know it was enough for you as a quantity to accept what I'm saying. Now Boris Tadic is in one big problem. The main witness that Boris Tadic said something that is not true, not to use another word in brackets, is the Constitutional Court judges; because they used to be officials, so they did something for Dragan Todorovic, for the ministry, legally did and the state earned billions and a half for it. Instead of saying, Mr. Todorovic, it's an honor to you, when you were a minister, you made it possible for the state to earn a billion and a half! No, he's waving into an election campaign and making a mental mistake. What trial will it be for the president of Serbia when the prosecution's witnesses will be judges of the Constitutional Court, who have been legally doing business, make contracts, etc.? There's some things they need to know, they can't mix 'em up. He can't run a state with someone who doesn't know anything, he needs to know something. Judging by what is public presence, it is likely that 70% of Serbian citizens believe that the source of corruption is in the following institutions (let me put on glasses, thank you): firstly, the Administrative Board of the National Assembly; the president of the Committee is a 'Bolognac' with criminal charges and evidence that he has committed crimes; secondly, the President of the Republic; say there is no corruption there. Isn't there, Hope?- I'm sorry. Here, I trust Hope there's no corruption there. There's no president, but there's one in the cabinet. Do you agree, Hope? You don't agree here either. It's not in the cabinet, it's at Cobra, it's security, Cobra. That's all we've got from the Army, Cobra, we don't have another army. We only have one unit from the army to protect the President of the Republic. Mickey Rakic is a different story, I can't talk too much, we have a deal. Third, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If only I could read you the composition of the government, not that it was a source, but -- hot, hot rebellion, hot corruption. The minister, Vice-President Boza Djelic, had no home to bite him for when he arrived. Like that Gojko Radic from Saturday, he came in with two bags as a refugee, and now the resorts on the lake at Subotica. Yours! Yours! It's not, Hope, it's yours. The Supreme Cassation Court - we don't have that, people! The state audit institution - they are not known for corruption, but they are put to sleep. They'd like to work, but how, by what. What do they do with it? They don't have anything. It'll work? They're working? What's the effect of that? When? We don't have seven final accounts, do you know that, are you not informed? Since 2000, the state has no final account, none! By 2000, he was adopted neatly every year. How could he not exist? How could he not exist? There were no digits. Okay, we'll see if there were any digits, you didn't show what you could do in the numbers. The public defender and the Commissioner for Public Information, through a common agreement; the two of them need to agree, this one proposes half, this one, come on, buddy, proposes half of one man. They can't work. Ask Sabic and Jankovic. The other day, a man was here, spitting on you, I'd be ashamed. Social-economic advice; is that what we have? Serbia's Bar Association; the Association of Journalists of the Republic of Serbia, through a joint agreement. There, God help! Hope Pants! So, people, who are you trying to convince? The man who barely catches the first and second channel at the top of Selicevica, which is one hill, the mountain, cannot trust you, because what the Constitution guarantees, this life in Serbia is being denied and he knows where the source of corruption is. He knows where the source of corruption is. If you've increased the number of employees five or six times since 2000, if every drought has become an expert, if the one who didn't have a dog for what to bite becomes the owner of 11.5 million shares in a bank, then builds a house, then issues, seven or eight thousand euros a month. Well, that Jelasic came from somewhere, I don't know, but the Serbian Congress in America funded him to finish his master's degree, so he bought some fork, as it was. You attacked him, Democrats, to remind you. Well, the citizenship, that's what Zivkovic gave him for a bottle of wine, never mind. Wait, where are you looking for corruption - on a flea market, in a drum stream? Where? Where are the banks? Who is at the head of a bank whose children, whose sons, how did the general children become capable overnight?- I'm sorry. You know, this is a mere declaration, this is something to wave with. Why? Because there are still some provisions that allow you to end your abuse? It is that member at the end of this law, on the criminal offence and the legal consequences of a criminal conviction, and a criminal offence can be committed by any official if he does not file a report of property or an error in the report of property. The legal consequence of the conviction for this crime, and the crime is like a blank norm, you know, is lustration – it won't be able to deal with politics for 10 years. This is where the story begins and the story ends – how one man's dictatorship is established, supported by some representatives of older men, Dad and Dobrica Ćosic. And the West said -- it works freely, because the principle of democratic authority is still in force in Serbia, and that means the development of a democratic society is based on the authority of one individual, who becomes a benchmark for all. His will decides what is democratic, what is not! His will decides what human rights are, what are not human rights! His will decides what to pursue, what to praise! There, it's a society to be made. You're just forgetting one thing. On the way you showed great activity when you passed the Lustration Act – you could not implement it. You know why? Not because of this side, but because of your side – this side should be lustrated in your way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4530	There's been an amendment, Mr. Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4531	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 9 and, in principle, we have tried to explain to the Minister, which is why we are asking that nine members of this committee be exempt – the President of the Republic and the Citizens' Protector, i.e. the Commissioner for Public Information. I think Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic explained in the best possible way why we're looking for this. I would refer to Mr Krasic's discussion, given that the President of the Republic gives candidates for members of the Constitutional Court and that the Assembly chooses its candidates, I think that by accepting such a solution we come to a position – 'Tadia and sues, Tadija judges you'. In principle, I said that we had a relationship at the beginning, to ignore some other facts, 5:4 of these nine proposed members, since there are representatives of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly, which is elected by the ruling majority, the President of the Republic, that I do not question at all, the representative of the Government, the Supreme Cassation Court and the State Auditing Institution. Since the Supreme Cassation Court has not yet been established, we may be in a stalemate position to be four to four, so we suggested that even under regular number six, this would be reduced to what it looked like in the original bill of law, with seven members. The only thing that's missing here, it looks like the DS board has its own proposal, so let's pick it here, so that majority on this board would be convincing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4532	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MPs: Judita Popović, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Slobodan Maras. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored President, Madam Minister, the proposed Member of the 10th National Assembly is given the right to elect three of the proposed candidates from the list of each proposed promoter. A similar legal idea exists in a whole series of laws that regulate candidates and select members of bodies and institutions whose members are elected by the National Assembly. Experience shows that in most cases such a model has not led to satisfactory solutions and that, through the possibility that the political majority chooses independently and sovereignly between several candidates, in a large number of cases, independence and credibility of the chosen authorities have been violated. If the basic idea is that different proposings are decisively involved in creating the composition of the Agency's future council, then they should enjoy their right and their legal trust fully. The fact that most will decide on the final election already advances creates a picture of the largely elected candidates who have the support of the parliamentary majority. The LDP considers a more useful solution in which the National Assembly would only formally confirm the proposals of authorised proposings under the general rules for decision-making in the National Assembly. This would strengthen the impact of the proposings and confirm that if the state has already given them the opportunity to propose candidates through legal law, it really has confidence in the quality and assessment of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4534	He's got Mrs. Judita Popovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4535	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to supplement the LDP's argument on this amendment. In fact, the objective of our amendment is to relieve this law a little bit. Because the goal of every law is to be effective, in addition to meeting certain formal assumptions, that it also has some content and that is a meaningful content. In fact, by setting up a kind of democratic decision on the appointment of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency and by electing those members, by the three proposed by each authorised promoter, we do not prove that we are indeed and democratically deciding who will be a member of this agency. The fact that formal assumptions for democratic decision-making and the appointment of members of the Agency are fulfilled does not mean that we receive some essential importance and content of this member to justify its existence. It is the purpose of every law that ultimately realises what was the objective of the law, and that is, above all, the protection of this society from corruption, which is obviously a very big problem and burdens it. We know by some international standards where we are concerned with corruption. The democratic form does not mean that you will always get the result that is expected. This, in fact, confirms this event today when the Minister of Energy came to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, although not here in this room, but in the Committee on Industry, according to the official written proposal of the LDP as a parliamentary group within the meaning of Article 199(2). The democratic procedure, envisioned by the Rules of Procedure, has been respected. Indeed, the minister approached, gave some answers. So, as far as democracy is concerned, it's all there. However, we expect results. If the results were to appear after the Minister of Energy's appearance, we would be pleased, because that democracy and the procedure would then receive true content. Therefore, this amendment, which is very short, says - "Article 10 is deleted", has the very purpose of simplifying things and not falsifying democracy, but that, indeed, every member of this very important law has its own meaning and meets the objective of the existence of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4536	Thank you. Mr Dimitrijevic's word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4537	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is October 17th, World Day Against Poverty. I hold in my hand one key document, which is the exposé of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, where he says "One of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be to strengthen social responsibility towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this society, free higher education will be available to all hardworking students and students, free healthcare guaranteed to all poor citizens and all Serbian citizens will be protected from extreme poverty." What's the problem? First thing, free higher education for all hardworking students and students. Why was there a student protest today? What were several thousand students doing here in front of the Serbian Parliament? What were they protesting? That's what I asked you the other day and you don't have an answer. Then, social responsibility. Citizens will be protected from extreme poverty. Why does gas cost 60%? Why do phone services need to collect 100%? Why do they collect groceries? Is that protection from extreme poverty? Is that the government's social responsibility? It'll be free health care. The ruling coalition, what has taken down the law on the write-off of debts on outstanding assets for basic health insurance? What do these people do, who knows how many thousands who can't verify their medical books? Is that free health care? Is this the Socially Responsible Government? And you're connecting the agenda points? What someone said a few years ago, grandmothers and frogs. We're obviously in a hurry somewhere. You give someone a promise, a word, and then when you have to keep those promises you made before the election, then you have student protests, then you have these gatherings, then you don't have free health care, then there's nothing for you. So you're one irresponsible and irresponsible government. That government wasn't made in some deal. You know who built that government. It's made by ambassadors and tycoons. It's your responsibility to this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4538	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4539	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is, in fact, this article of the 10th essence and all the weaknesses and all the chances that exist in this bill on the education of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Why does the state form a Anti-Corruption Agency, when there are so many institutions in our society that they should, by carrying out the tasks of their responsibilities, respond to such a widespread social problem as to what is the problem of corruption? Why are we now introducing a special Anti-Corruption Agency, besides the police, the prosecution, the courts, besides the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, besides the Anti-Corruption Council? Because obviously all existing institutional mechanisms are insufficiently ineffectively fighting corruption. Why are they undereffective? First of all, because of the over-emphasis of the policy of the executive government, the government, the local self-government, even Parliament, because corruption is unimaginable on such a large scale and the degree on which this one is ours without the circumstances which speaks of the system as the basis of such corruption. We're not talking about removing some anomalies here. We're talking about the fact that corruption is a form of social life with us. With the idea of sending Parliament a bill on the Anti-Corruption Agency, the government is probably trying to lead, in a more organised and efficient way, the fight against corruption, but it makes the same mistake that the previous governments made, opening too much room for the executive government, the government, for the parliamentary majority, for the parties, and all these institutions are addresses from which corruption originated. We said the Anti-Corruption Agency is run by the Council and that board of the Agency has nine members. Each of these members represents one of the institutions of our society: the President, the Government, Parliament, the Bar Association, the Association of Journalists, the Media, the Social-Economic Council, the Supreme Cassation Court, which we do not have, but we will probably have, until that moment, the Supreme Court. Where do we get into trouble? Who's the one making the decision? Are all these institutions that we are trying to bring into the fight against corruption so that this fight is more effective because it is politically independent or that we are creating a new front behind which unchanged relations will remain. That's what this is about. Let's not caricate the anti-corruption law. We have some experience. We've got the Radio Diffusion Act. At the time, it was defined, more or less, a similar procedure for selecting members of the Council of the Republic Radio Diffusion Agency. Different segments of society propose more candidates, and then the Assembly chooses them. By what criteria does parliament choose them? By measuring someone's expertise. Now let's apply this law. Where do we get the right to arbitration who's more quality than those three proposed candidates in front of the President of the Republic or the Government? The ruling majority, who chose the government, should assess whether the government was right when he proposed one of the three candidates to sit in the Anti-Corruption Council. We think parliament can only take responsibility for its representative, one. The legitimacy of the representative will be built on the fact that the representative was voted not simply by the majority here in the Assembly or the Government, but that, for example, a much wider consensus has been reached, resulting in this legitimacy, e.g. two-thirds. That would be a serious bet, then. There is a danger that such a candidate would never be chosen, but then you would know who is responsible for the lack of elementary preconditions to fight corruption. I don't know who would have dared here in parliament to deny the support of the person who deserves that support, but I know we were absolutely right when we denied the support of some members of the State Auditing Institution. Now you can see we were right. That's when we said, it can't be this way to form such an important body in our society. Now we have the same case here. The president will propose three candidates, the Government of three candidates, the Bar Association of three candidates, the Social-Economic Council of three candidates, and then we will decide who is the best of the three candidates. Imagine what it would look like to realize our obligation under this law. The Management Board should submit three candidates. By what procedure are we going to get those three names? The parties, I guess, will suggest, who else. The parties may only appear as proposing before the Administrative Committee. What will it look like, say, a serious conversation of the ruling majority representatives with some of those who do not want to see on the council? The only question will be, are you behind me or not? What about the other two candidates? You be a rabbit here, show up to be a full number, and we'll make it up to you somewhere else. You'll get some board of directors, we'll hire someone from your family, let's follow the law, that's it. I have no doubt in advance that he will not be a good candidate from the ruling coalition. It might be good, but let's simplify these relationships and we can take responsibility. Have the president propose one, but a real candidate. The government of one, but serious, would do the same to the Bar Association. See how the election procedure has been defined for representatives of the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia. First, you know that with us, these associations are made by sharing one association and that it is much more realistic to expect the LDP to join tomorrow by signing a declaration of reconciliation between DS and SPS, than to agree on NUNS and the Association of Journalists of Serbia. You know how realistic it is to expect us to sign that declaration, it is even less realistic to expect Serbian journalists' associations to agree on three credible candidates we need to discuss. There's no deal. That's impossible. That's why we have to treat this member of the law completely differently, and that's why it's a good initiative that says we should delete this member of the law and simplify the procedure. The government of one serious candidate, the parliament of a serious candidate. No hide-and-seeks and no match-finding. Every institution should stand by their proposal, so we know what this is all about. This is how we make it a theater, and the fight against corruption can't be an esstrad. Bad are the consequences of previous solutions that are present in the Law on Broadcasting Agency and on Ratel and all of these situations where we have had more candidates. Remember the election for the Constitutional Court judges. Remember what it looked like, like, more candidates but it's a prerequisite – let's agree on those who will pass. That way you can't fight corruption. Five of ours, five of yours, then I guess we'll be fine. The government has to pass, the president has to pass, the opposition has to have something, then it's not good, because serious people with credibility won't participate in something like this. Therefore, we draw attention to Article 10, and we suggest that the minister accept the removal of a member who says: "Every proposing list of three candidates for one member of the Agency's Committee. '"That's what would give new weight to these proposals and that would put us in a position so that we could absolutely bind the responsibility of the applicant to the candidate. If the president proposes three and we choose one, the president is not responsible for the credibility of that one, because he may have been counting more on someone else, who has not been elected. If the Assembly discusses three candidates and selects one, there is only the ruling majority responsible for the election and no one else. Journalists too, lawyers also, the Social-Economic Council as well. One proposal, and we give this proposal formal legitimacy so that he can do his job. Who's responsible? Not Parliament, we have a responsibility for good law. The responsibility shall be borne by the Proposer. We'll take over for the Administrative Board, and let the government take responsibility for its own, so that if the government made a mistake, the government is responsible. And like this, it's all our fault and nobody's to blame. This is not a good basis for an effective fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4540	Thank you. Mr. Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4541	Of course, when it's only a matter of amendments now. In order for this group of MPs who are obstructing the National Assembly to sit and keep silent, instead of in Parliament parlating, talking, I need to draw attention to some things, because obviously you didn't interpret what it says here. We're at the amendment to Article 10. It's a bill of law. Let me explain something to you before I get on with it. It's all in a chapter called the Agency's Committee, and I just remind you, if you didn't take this home, then you'll read it at home, Article 3 says that, in a procedure before the Agency which is not governed by this law, the provisions of the Law governing the general administrative procedure are applied accordingly. This law is applied by all state authorities, the authorities of the Administration, and by what you have written, it is a state body dealing with administrative affairs. Is reporting property and what you've put into jurisdiction a administrative matter? I'm telling you it's not, but I can't convince you. Why did I tell you this - the General Administrative Procedure Act, I told you because you're in Article 7. The draft law states: ''The Agency's Board shall elect and resolve the Director of the Agency, it shall decide by appeal on the decisions of the Directors to which the measures are to be made in accordance with this law... '"and that's where I'm gonna stop. This is a provision on the competences of the Agency's Committee. In the next article you wrote what conditions should be met by the candidate you should choose to be a member of the Agency's Committee. "For a member of the Agency's Committee, a person who fulfils the general conditions for working in state authorities, citizenship can be elected, has a general health certificate and has a college degree. Well, how can he be a second-degree administrative body with a machine school? Explain to me, please. How? You wrote a college here, you didn't say law school. It means that he has completed his university, at least nine years of working experience, and that he is not convicted of a criminal offence that makes him unworthy of acting as a member of the Agency's Committee. The Agency’s Committee shall be a second-degree administrative body. That's what you wrote here. Who can conduct a second-degree procedure? A graduate lawyer with a state exam to work in the authorities of the administration, not to order any further these other terms. Here it's theoretically possible to choose the man who finished the Hortic culture college, so can this bologna. He's not showing his degree, we've boasted he's graduated from college. So, formally-legal anyone who's finished college can be elected, of course, with these other conditions. How will he be a member of a second-degree governing body? We're choosing a second-degree administrative authority. You've put in a nice law school with the director, and you've told college members – horticulture, forestry, woodworking. What does that have to do with anything? How will he appreciate the legality of the first-degree decision taken by the director? How? Based on what? Now on the amendment to Article 10. If you're going to force this bill, and you're stuck, when you're stuck, you can do anything, then the question is, how are you going to define these three candidates and what will he decide when selecting one member of those three? Is there going to be a letter-head, since the political resemblance is reportedly cast out, it's forbidden here under your bill, what's going to be the criterion? The second-degree body in the administrative procedure does not depend on these criteria that you have written in this bill. The second-degree procedure is run by people who are in a working relationship with the state body, the operational part, and only sign the authorised person. You're all confused because you don't respect the state, you don't respect the state structure, you don't respect the system of government. Your system of government as something that needs to protect the system of values in society, you don't need it. You are a system of values, your interest, your will, your wish. This is just a form in which something is forming, so you're still demonstrating absolute ignorance. Someone will get the wrong idea that if there is a Anti-Corruption Agency, then there is an effective fight in society against corruption. It's a lie, it's a prank. This is the Agency that needs to protect corruption. This is a kind of negativity of something you swear. You'll have to legalize everything through this agency. Tadic will be the most beautiful and wisest, and Boza will be the poorest. All that can be done through this agency. That's what you did. Let me remind you, he was once a non-partisan candidate, president of the City Committee of DS in Novi Sad, and was elected Judge of the Constitutional Court. Imagine that concept, when selecting Chiplic as judge of the Constitutional Court, he says – no, he has nothing to do with the DS. He was the president of the City Committee – yes, as an impartial figure. Your Bora Novakovic spoke here in the Assembly. When it was that which gave him the dwelling, lest I speak any further what was done. There he is, now he's the minister for something. Now he says, under certain conditions, it is possible to take away the term of office in the National Assembly, independent of resignation and these other things, but because of the words they speak from the assembly speaker. Chiplic goes further than The Hague tribunal, only to put into shape how to conceal the essence. In this bill of law, we're faced with criminal solutions, but it's not a slip, a mistake, they missed it. No, that's trendy. Someone would be angry if I were to say something from this pay phone that would disrupt or question the right of a MP, let's say, if I were to say – please ask Mrs. Jorge not to write any more amendments. When he writes the amendment, he immediately demonstrates in Belgrade. Her amendment takes two days to strike children, demonstrates. Now they speak, who is with us is well, who is not with us, will pay. Think of your tuition - they'll pay. And I'm paying my tuition, and I could stop protesting with them, not for myself, and I could as a parent, and a lot of parents could come to demonstrate. That would be really small on my part to say, Mrs. Jorga, don't write the amendments, see the demonstrations, except the cavalry doesn't go through Belgrade yet. It's her legitimate right to write. I get the impression that you're hanging out again, I know you as my empty pocket. Wherever there's a chance that you're cheating, that you're getting along, that's where you're the most qualified. Mr Jovanovic asked the question – how two or perhaps three journalists' associations will agree, who knows how long it will be since they go as amoebe. If, say, two associations, we could be about like this -- we're going to propose one candidate, you suggest another, and around the third, we're going to agree. It's possible that's the way it is. Why are you forcing the National Assembly, as a state body, to cooperate in something that's stupid? It's not your fault. Someone before you, 17 years ago, came across a stunt – arrest an MP, take off his immunity, and let the helicopters be present when immunity is removed, suffering Desimir Tosic, so Zarko Jokanovic, etc., demeans the National Assembly, and then we will all be able to transfer what is the problem from the National Assembly. Citizens, the attack on the National Assembly, it's no good for the National Assembly, it's not good there! That's it. Keep the thief. The thief is sitting in the government. He yells at the wolf, and the fox takes away. This is another one in a series of such laws. Don't be surprised if these 'yellow' newspapers say tomorrow – during a debate yesterday at the National Assembly about the Anti-Corruption Agency law, the MPs sharply criticised the concept, because the law affects them. No, it does not. It does not strike the Messengers of the people. This law gives you the 'yellows', which you are in power, something that must not belong to anyone, to hold everything in your hands and that your whole life in Serbia is your imagination. It's just a means of pressure. Same thing with the RRA. You know, channels, frequencies, assigned – how? Corruption, but that corruption is legalized through this Broadcasting Agency. Everything here will be legalized through this agency. If you need to fight, you'll have a fight at that agency. Everything can be discussed, everything can be written in the papers, everything can be made by television shows, but cannot be touched by the core of the DS. You know who! Well, we've narrowed you down, and that's why we're only giving citizens so much notice, they realize that everything that flies doesn't eat. And everything that comes from this "yellow" company, you know, it's not good for the citizens of Serbia or for the Republic of Serbia or for our position. That's what we need to get rid of, that way of thinking, that system where there's no value system. There's only a yellow value system. What is in their pocket is good. What's not in their pocket - it's no good. If he fails, here's your SNS, no more attacks. Milivojevic transferred everything from DS to SNS, even home friends. You sign a declaration, move to SNS, there are both Democrats and Socialists who have entered Tom's party. What Chad said, there's no need to bother about that deal. Everyone in SNS, there's reconciliation. How long? We'll see!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4542	Mrs. Nada Kolundžija, then Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4543	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the intention of the legislator of this law, as well as the parliamentary majority, which supports this set of laws, is to create conditions for the state to fight corruption and organised crime more effectively. What's very important to us is, every time there's a chance of political arbitration and thus creating a possibility for new areas of corruption, that it's something we don't want to support. That is why the MEP Group for European Serbia will vote in favour of this amendment in the day of voting, respecting all the reasons and arguments presented here, because we do not want the Assembly and the parliamentary majority to assume arbitration in the assessment of which of the candidates, the proposings, to be better or not. We count that the competent proposings will propose their candidates in accordance with the law, as the best solutions they can offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4544	Thank you. Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4545	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mrs. Kolundzija just said is a new moment, I want to ask Mrs. Minister - what really happens if the National Assembly chooses none of the proposed candidates? Will you give us that answer? I would prefer to hear you on behalf of the promoter, rather than the head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4546	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4547	Madam Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, I think that Article 9 has very precisely established the obligation of the Proposer. So, the Agency's board has nine members. The members of the Agency's Committee shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal, then all institutions proposing a candidate for a member of the Council shall be listed. There is a huge difference between arbitration, which, in practice, in some ways disabling some candidates and talking about the existence of doubt about the ability of the applicants. We seem to suspect that the government, the Supreme Court, the President, the Administrative Board, will propose good candidates, so we are asking for more suggestions that we should say which of these proposals is very best. This is exactly how responsibility is shared, and parliament is there, of course, to deny, if there is a mistake, its support, which then obliges whoever proposed the candidate and for whom parliament has not formally voted to come up with a new proposal. But that alone was not questioned by accepting this amendment, because parliament could not accept even three candidates and then repeat only the vote. There are no problems, but it will be clearer, on the one hand, who is responsible for the proposal, thus spreading that space where those who share responsibility for the more effective fight against corruption, and on the other hand, we, as Parliament, show the willingness to remove from ourselves the suspicion that has always been present, that we are here behind the cover, above all, protecting our political interests, and that we are only treating the public interest when it is necessary, because of some political benefit that we will have. One candidate, one promoter, is the clearest principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4548	Does anyone else appear in the discussion of the details of Article 10? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs: Judita Popović, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Slobodan Maras. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4549	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the government, MPs of the LDP group expected all the proposed LDP amendments to be accepted, there are not many, there are four, they are essential natures, they are not cosmetics and they do not aim at giving the opportunity to spend time obstructing parliament, but rather to improve the text of this necessary law. We expected our proposal to be so understood. As regards the amendment, Article 14, the specific position 1 reads: ''A member of the Agency's Committee shall be dismissed if he is an unwitting member of the Agency's Committee if he becomes a member of a political party or participates in the activities of political parties, if he is convicted of a criminal offence which makes him an unworthy member of the Agency's Committee or if he is found to have violated this law. ''So, the correct intention of the legislator, but there is inconsistency and uncertainty in the very text of the member. With our amendment, we ask that in the first sentence, "that is to say, it participates in the activities of political parties" in the words "infringes the reputation or political impartiality of the Agency". This approach to regulating the text of Article 1 makes sense in the fact that the set of words, ''that is, participates in the activities of political parties'', is very broadly given and provides opportunities for abuses, for pressure and for preventing the members of the Committee from acting independently and impartially as they are given this law. We understand that the proposal is intended to prevent illicit political engagement, classification and abuse for pre-election purposes. The fact that a person is a member of the Agency's Committee and such an intention is good, but the way it is translated into legal norm, in our opinion, is clumsy and vague. Participation in activities, I repeat, in our opinion is too broad and undefined legal standard. It is therefore not possible in an adequate and precise way to assess this standard and it is not possible to sanction it in an adequate way. That is why our proposal to put these words in the position of Article 14 is a violation of the Agency's reputation or political impartiality. ''It is a far narrower category, a far narrower standard, a far clearer definition and, in our opinion, does not give the opportunity to pressure the members of the Agency's Committee, i.e. the possibility of their impartiality. I would like to get an explanation why the motionor did not accept this amendment, because it essentially improves the text of Article 14 and is really essential, not cosmetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4550	The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Krasic, and the hope of Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4551	When the rule of law goes wrong once or for the first time, it goes like a disease and it spreads. Let me remind you, the first time was made a precedent when it comes to choice and resolution in general, a few years ago when the Law on the National Bank of Serbia was first passed. The mistake was double. The first consisted of the proposing status of the Assembly Committee on Finance, and the second error, which was made, was in the provision of a resolution of a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council, because the Council itself determined whether the conditions or the reasons for the resolution were met. And since this previous procedure has ended with them, only then, eventually, comes to the National Assembly. Of course, he never made it to the National Assembly. There were obvious examples, just to remind you. For the first time, several members of the National Bank of Serbia Council were elected, and those who do not meet the requirements. I don't want to talk about names, Professor Mathematician, the statistician is presented to an economic expert in high-caliber technology. So he didn't meet the basic, essential condition, because he doesn't come from the economic profession. Of course, they noticed something else later, and then they deleted it. It was then made the first precedent and, you see, it is rolling through all our regulations, when it comes to advice, the committees of some agencies, some collegiate bodies within the system of state authorities. It is prescribed and, here, it contains Article 14. It's a bill of law. This is about something that can be called an elemental flaw and an obvious error. The rule is that whoever chooses or appoints, he solves. If it has assessed whether the conditions for selection or appointment have been met, it is authorised to appreciate whether the reasons for the resolution have occurred. This in translation, when it comes to this bill, means – if the National Assembly chooses between the proposed candidates, then and in the case of resolution, the National Assembly does so. If during the election it determined whether the conditions for choice were met, it also determines whether the reason for the resolution had occurred. You have avoided this masterly by inserting a story about political functions and some reasons that may be more or less acceptable, but you have kept something that cannot exist, and this is based on the following – that this committee determines whether the reason for the resolution has occurred. This means that they determine whether one of these specific situations has occurred. By nature, they will always determine that this reason has not occurred and it will not even reach the National Assembly. If this solution remained that the Committee found that the reason had occurred, then the question arises – what if the National Assembly did not resolve that member of the Committee, and some experts in the previous procedure found that the reason had occurred. You see how pointless that is. The solution now turns out that the National Assembly only comes down to the voting instrument, the MP carding unit and nothing else. You see, what a demeaning of the National Assembly as an organ! Doesn't that seem schizophrenic to you? The committee determines whether the reason came, and says: "The reason has come, then the proposal has been sent to the National Assembly." The National Assembly votes and does not accept that proposal and that man remains. How does he go on? He can legitimately move on. Then what was the congregation doing? This is because the basic principle is not respected – the one who chooses, the one who solves, the one who chooses determines whether the conditions for choice are met, the one who resolves determines whether there is a reason, or to be even more precise, whether the conditions for resolution are met. It's an alphabet. If you throw in these others, you've made a mistake, because the solutions are abnormal. You can probably see how wrong article 14 is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4552	The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic has the word, and Nada Kolundzija, according to their agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4553	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, is a very important issue, which regulates the procedure for the discharge of members of the Agency's Committee. This is Article 14(1). We have two amendments to Article 14, point 1 and point 3. Article 1 mentions participation in political parties' activities as a reason for resolution. We think that this is too narrow a definition, because we believe that it will never happen again that the special prosecutor is taking part in the pre-election convention of the ruling coalition at that time, I think of Slobodan Radovanovic, who was not the problem that as a special prosecutor sits in the front row and applauds Vojislav Kostunica more than Velimir Ilic. This is certainly not going to happen anymore, not because there are no people who would be courting the authorities in this way, but because the authorities are not going to allow it because of their personal credibility. But the issue is to preserve the Agency's reputation and political impartiality very important. That's the essential question. We have therefore amended this formulation by proposing to delete participation in political parties' activities and to introduce the criteria of reputation and political impartiality as criteria which must be respected by the members of the Agency's Committee. Only if we look at these other laws in which we have also tried to affirm some independent institutions, the Law on the Republic Broadcasting Agency and the role of the Council, then you will see that there are a lot of procedures that violate the reputation of that institution, a lot of politically colored procedures, and that no member of the Council can be found within the framework of a particular party. In one day, a competition was held, which selected candidates for the Public Service Management Board, and on the second day the director of the Public Service was elected. For the next five years, this board of directors can count on the absolute right that we have established by the Law on the Republic Broadcasting Agency, and we have no option to set against them the criteria of protection of the reputation, of this law, the 'public service' and the criteria of political impartiality, and to see if they respect and play that role in our society that we wanted to, say, 'public service' to play. It is not necessary to go to a party meeting to lose political impartiality and therefore we think that the criteria should be introduced as a reminder and as another guarantee that in the future the institution will indeed develop independently and professionally. So, participation in political gatherings is in itself, I think, part of barbarism and it's overcome. But political impartiality is something we all need, and those who propose and those who stand behind such a law and us as an opposition who in any way tries to define the models that would allow us to accept your proposals without any doubt and skepticism. I hope, however, that we will come to an end, during the vote, to understand, just as we will in this Article 3 which is the subject of the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4554	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4555	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MEP for European Serbia in the voting day will vote for this amendment. Again, I would like to reiterate that the proposal's intention is to depolitise independent institutions, especially institutions that deal with such an important issue as the fight against corruption and organised crime and any formulation that, in the opinion of the opposition in a better way, defines this political impartiality for us is quite acceptable. I repeat, in voting day, we will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4556	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Article 14. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4557	This position 3, in fact, defines the procedure and determines the right of one who can initiate the discharge procedure of a member of the Agency's Committee. The draft law lays down that at least three members of the Agency's Committee, the Director of the Agency, as well as the proposing member of the Agency's Committee, may be given the opportunity to initiate the discharge procedure. We don't think it's a good idea for a committee member to launch a resolution initiative. We'll tell you why. Because in such a way, a member of the Committee depends, in fact, on who suggested it. If we want to affirm this independence as much as possible, then we need to break the link between the proposing members of the Agency's Committee and the process of resolution. The proposal is one right, and the solution permanently binds the one who proposes and the one who represents the promoter in the Council, i.e. The Agency's committee. That is why we believe that the discharge procedure can, of course, be initiated by the chairman of the Agency's Committee, for the reasons that we have just established, at least three members of the Committee, the Director of the Agency, but not the one who was the proposing. Therefore, only individuals from the plane in which the person in charge is located. In such a way, this Agency Committee shall be protected from any external pressure. As long as there's a possibility of external pressure, these people won't be absolutely independent. I don't think what we're proposing is in itself a newspaper, that there's still a situation in which the promoter doesn't have the right to resolve, has the right to run. We don't mean to degrade the judge's office, but you know it's possible for the judge to choose, but the discharge procedure is completely different from the election procedure. That is why we would like to further ensure the independence of the members of the Republic Committee of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Only the members of the Committee, director, chairman of the Agency's Committee, can initiate the discharge procedure, and anything else would be to bring down independence and leave space for uncontrollable influence.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4558	MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4559	I just need to warn you of the fact that this is an abnormal solution. How can a first-degree governing body kill a second-degree governing body? How can the Director, as a first-degree authority in the administrative procedure, propose a discharge of a member of a second-degree management body? According to you, it would be that a judge, an individual, a municipal court may request that the judge of a district court who is a member of a KV council be dismissed. In translation, that's what it means. To be more specific, if we want to do exactly the administrative procedure, if the local self-government unit were to do some trusted administrative matter in the jurisdiction of the Republic, it would be a first-degree body, that one who ran the first-degree body would suggest the termination of the working relationship to the second-degree governing body. That's insane. Why? Because you have both put the Committee and the Director in the Agency and one Agency has both a first-degree and a second-degree body. I'm saying this because you're trying to make this look like something, to be serious. This is all absolutely unserious. You see, you've found a problem if the elector asks for a resolution, but he doesn't ask for a resolution, he asks for a preliminary procedure within the Committee, because formally, according to this article, the resolution ends in the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee. What you've been talking about, this amendment, it's a previous procedure, a procedure to determine if there was a reason for the resolution. To make that even clearer, we have something similar here in the National Assembly, according to the Constitution. Legally, we can take down the President of the Republic if he blatantly violates the Constitution, and that reason is determined by the Constitutional Court. That makes sense. What you suggested about this board, it doesn't make any sense at all. I think you've gone slightly beyond what MP Martinovic said at the outset. Are you aware of what you're making? Is that agency a state body? It's not. Is it a administrative organization? It's not. What? A parapolitical organ, a means of coercion, but it's a system designed to force it to apply to the paraorgan, well, either you're good or you're done. Someone realizes that the mistake is what's written in this article, and the LDP is asking to be deleted. It's not a mistake, it's a way of thinking. If the Association of Journalists has proposed someone and has been chosen to be a member of the Committee of the Agency, the Proposer considers that the one who has proposed that member and he has been elected has the right to propose in the previous procedure to establish that the reasons for the resolution have taken place. It's not inconsistencies, they're completely consistent with their system of creating para-state organs and para-political forces, means of pressure. God forbid if you do, so when it comes to the media, when you start representing them, you can raise them to the heights, like with this anti-corruption advice. And he's unconstitutional, illegal. It doesn't come from the Constitution, it doesn't come from the law, it doesn't come from the system of government. Instead of dealing with corruption: the police – the prosecution – the court – Zabela, you solve it within the Agency. Just to remind you, we had a Council to fight corruption, and to get some to jump to that advice, they remember that RIK, besides all the powers, remember, RIK that mandatory interpretation, think about the mayor, whether there's a conflict of interest, etc., and then the Committee on the Resolution of Conflict of Interest says "please, what RIK wrote, they're not competent, we don't share that opinion, we have a completely different opinion". You will have it again, because no one appreciates this organ being serious and no one appreciates that it will solve anything. He'll probably solve the functioner's register and the functioner's property register. Excuse me, please, that's the least of the problems. If you'd asked me, I could've given my office register and the property that every official has. This is where I joked with you and talked to one of your MPs here. I know exactly which apartment he wrote which member of his 35-member bill, how many apartments he has. In one apartment, article 1, in the second apartment, Article 2, Article 3, and the fact that it is not co-existent, is because it was one in Nis, the other in Belgrade, and the third was in Ivanjica. So, if you need a list of the property of the clerks, come in and I'll give it to you. Don't make anything, so you're still giving them some miserable wages so that every piece of shit can buy them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4560	The People's Messenger Ivan has the word
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4561	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although this amendment is short and seemingly simple, it will essentially change the way the Agency works, that's the thing we're going to decide on. Cedomir Jovanovic, head of our parliamentary group, gave one sighting, but if I may take a minute or two to point out some further consequences. The adoption or non-acceptation of this amendment will decide whether this committee, as well as the whole of the Agency, will function on a representative basis, and decisions will be taken by the proposing, or the Committee itself will make decisions relating to the Agency's work. In fact, we applied that method in several cases. If we want that institution to have authority and that it consists of people who are very good quality, people of integrity, the LDP parliamentary group thinks that this may be the most important thing – the authority of those people who decide on these issues must be unquestionable. Then they should be given the opportunity to make their own decisions. And they will make their own decisions unless they depend on whoever suggested them. By accepting this amendment, any proposing would be forced to think very carefully about who is proposing it. That someone would have to be invulnerable if they had authority, that he was smart enough, intelligent, visperous, that he could make decisions. The consequences will be if this amendment is not accepted, and which is not a disaster, simply, we just have to bear in mind, that each member of the Committee will, individually, when he makes or when he participates in making some decisions, also have to think about the interest of whoever proposed him. Because it and that institution or body or association will be able to launch its shift. That's where we suggested this. Also, another aspect of this is very important, given that several Committee members propose institutions that are purely political, the adoption of this amendment would allow independence from changes within these institutions. So, if parliament proposes someone and there was a change in parliament, accepting this amendment would allow it not automatically to mean selecting someone new in that committee. Also, I don't know, and the President of the Republic, and the cassation court, whatever these institutions already exist. Essentially, acceptance of this amendment will also determine the authority of the institution itself, the Anti-Corruption Agency. If we want them to be people whom everyone will respect and who, in some ways, will be conditioned, and feared, this amendment should be accepted. If we want it to be the representative home of some other institutions, then we don't have to. The LDP thinks it would be very good to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4562	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs: Judita Popović, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Slobodan Maras submitted to the 21st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4563	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, accepting the amendment to Article 14, the amendment submitted by the MPs to Article 21, is the same content. So, "they participate in the activities of political parties", these words are replaced by the words "infringes the Agency's reputation or political impartiality". The MEP Group for European Serbia will vote in favour of the amendment in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4564	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd prefer my dear colleague, Hope Kolundjia, accepted, but I don't mind, since the government has accepted this previous amendment, a little joke. I have submitted an amendment to Article 23, in order to delete Section 1. It is totally unacceptable for the agency's salary to be equalised with the ministers' salary. In the debate in principle, I have repeatedly pointed out, first of all, the finding, "The director has the right to pay equal... "and I think it would be more appropriate to say, if it has to, "in the height of the minister's salary." What do we want with the equalization of the Director's salary and the Minister's salary? Whether it's a slow introduction or maybe we will, since we've brought together some things of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest through this law, to say, one day, here's a lot of some committees, a lot of members of that board, directors, vice directors, maybe at some point when someone doesn't like how this agency works to form a new ministry. Only in that I recognize that one such agency is equalizing itself with the minister's rank. I really don't want to deal with what the ministers' salaries are. However, it was unacceptable and there was no reason, I think it was still necessary to bring it down to some lower scales, so that if the director, if he has to be at some level, would be at the level of the deputy secretary of state and his deputy would be at the level of the assistant minister. It is precisely because of all this that I am pleased that this previous amendment to Article 22 has been accepted, because it was intended for the director to directly elect his deputy on his proposal and, behold, a nice thing, suddenly the deputy director, a friend of his, suddenly found himself in the position of the secretary of state, at least for something, at the salary. I think there's been another time, the Law on Civil Service Officers in position, the Law on Salaries, that's where a solution was to be found. I find it distasteful that this is the way to determine the salary of this official, who has all those privileges when his term ends, six months, which is generally not controversial. Mr Krasic said very well about that pyramid of government – from top to bottom. What is the fate of this law? The fate of this law can be slowly noticed, a single amendment has already been accepted to postpone application from October 1st to December 31st, 2009. In general, the whole set of laws in front of Parliament has some deadlines, of course, by emergency procedure. Some will apply from March 1st, some eight days after the announcement, some along with this amendment with the correction of MPs, I think, the SPS, but I am absolutely certain that these laws will be postponed several times. Because I'm not sure that on January 1st, when this law is due to enter into force, this law will start to apply, that the conditions will be met and that they will be able to be followed. We've seen what it's like with the state audit, and we've seen that many of them not only have problems in operation, but also in housing. Serbia is a country that has so many agencies and directors and some regulatory bodies, that when you enter websites it's really amazing. Many of us here don't even know what the agencies and directors are, and when we talk about the crime of taking away the property, we've already formed a directorate there, we're now forming this agency, and I have to, Madam Minister, tell you, we're terminating the courts, well, that's— a little bit! God forbid everything I say doesn't work out in time. The essence of every directorate and agency is to be some regulatory body and to bring in some sublegal acts, regulations. I told you today about that department that it looks like a warehouse to me, some kind of yard where we need some property to secure it there, until her fate is definitely decided. And this agency sure as hell is good that it exists, sure as hell we're all here to fight organized crime and corruption, but it seems to me that the way to that director is a lot of filters, and when we get to him, it seems to me like there's going to be a plug in there, that man is going to be under a lot of influence. Because how do you start by choosing that director? Who chooses him? It is chosen by: The Administrative Board of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Supreme Cassation Court, which has not yet been established, the State Auditing Institution, the Citizens' Protector, the Social and Economic Council, the Law Chamber of Serbia and the Association of Journalists. And as long as you get it together nicely, while you get it together, I don't think that the deadline given with the amendment, which I've already mentioned, is going to be met for sure. There's gonna be a lot of difficulties, like I said, fate and this law and a lot of other laws, for example. civil servants, in position, their choice, which came to order in 2005 and 2006, was postponed for May 2006 and now we see that we are delaying for 31 December 2009. As far as this amendment is concerned, I don't think we should be dealing with salary levels in this article. It could have been a more elegant way to get rid of it. It is true that certain conditions must be met there, but it can be done through the Law of Salaries, through such a form of wage determination, much more functional and better. That's why I suggested that this member be deleted and I hope you accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4566	MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4567	In these laws, the promoters usually make a big mistake, and it is a good thing that the applicant of the amendment noticed that there was this huge mistake. It is also contained in Article 23, paragraph 1, where it says, "The Director has the right to pay the same salary as the minister, and the Deputy Director pays the same salary as the Secretary of State." I don't know why the question of wages and compensation would be solved by some other law when we have the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants? Why should this especially be regulated by some member of this law, because if you put into every law so, some provision, which you regulate, among other things, and the salary, is also the question of why is the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants? Secondly, we didn't get an answer to the question of what is the Minister's salary? Only $100,000? You better go to flight control there have 450,000. Now that you're receiving 100,000, the one who's receiving 450,000 and the one who's receiving 450,000 should be shaking at you, how come that's impossible? It used to be – it's hard to reach the minister. The minister is the government, you know, not the government, but the minister? He's basically the biggest representative of the government, and we've devalued it. There, the minister receives 100,000 salaries, the one in flight control has 450,000, not to mention it's public enterprises. Here Mikovic knows what it's like in Pancheva -- water, sewerage, garbage, greenery, and they don't grab to be ministers, you see what it's like. Now that's the situation -- you bring him in, you put him in to be a minister, and you grab yourself to be the director of flight control, JAT's "Aerodroma," "Gasproma," EPS. Don't touch the EPS. It's a disaster. It's all clear to you. Now the one who gets the salary of a 100,000-dollar minister should be resolved in a conflict of interest in what he receives 450,000 – so he will buy it for change, for example, is it clear to you people? He'll buy it for change. You see how funny that feels. So if you already have a law that regulates wages, apply that law. Do not put the provisions on salaries into this law – rights and basics. But since we're in the field of law and something that needs to be painted by a state organization, but at the level of something that should mean -- I'm writing you a letter, I wish you well, then no wonder these provisions are being inserted. You have one thing to understand, you may understand, but you don't want to accept. It's not all better to be a legal norm. Not every word structure is enough to put on top – it's a member and it's not, but you're pushing it through the system holding water while the masters leave. What is your law – so will the Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4568	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Maja Vidinović. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milorad Buha submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter III and Articles 28 to 39 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4569	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Milorad Buha has submitted an amendment to the name of Chapter III - conflict of interest, above Article 28 and Article 28. 28 to 39 are deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, if the government wants to prevent corruption, stop crime, it may immediately need neither special courts nor any new agencies. The establishment of this agency is not going to achieve anything or change anything at all. It should be dealt with by corrupt ministers, with government members and other authorities involved in any kind of an affair, in any form of crime and corruption. Under existing state authorities, all these problems can be solved. What do we need the agency for? There are laws that prevent corruption, but they are not implemented. That's why I don't understand what's going to happen to the agency. The law is clear – crime is forbidden, corruption is forbidden, it should be respected and implemented. Who and what guarantee does it make that someone will respect and implement what the agency makes and decides? How's she gonna work? Will her director and other members succumb to various attempts at corruption and so forth? The agency will be the organ where corruption will be most attempted. All these ministers and members of the government involved in crime will influence all forces on the Agency's work, which will not be able to work independently and independently. Everyone will press her and influence her work. How will the agency prevent the government and its members from stopping corruption and crime? It's amazing that you think she'll stop Dinkic, Djelic and the others in her intentions. It's just amazing that someone thinks the Agency can prevent new affairs. The agency will not be able to prevent the new Janjusevic, Kolesar, from reaching a new "coffer" affair, to new customs and road or construction mafias, to scandalous privatisations, to sell sugars for a few euros, to sell cements for wake-up, to sell the Business Centre "Usce", "Sartida" for completely unreal low prices. The Agency will not be able to prevent new public procurement affairs, as they did in the military, the police, the Airport and other places, nor will it be able to prevent a new Index affair and the like. If the police, the prosecution, the judiciary cannot prevent corruption, the Agency will certainly not be able to do so, because it will also be under the influence of the government – it is clear to all. The Agency will not be able to implement a more effective fight against corruption. I therefore propose that this amendment, as well as any other amendments proposed by the SRS, be adopted because we consider this agency unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4570	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4571	I'd remind you of something that's common knowledge. At the time of the first, of course, democratic, the government of Zoran Djindjic also boasted that the ministers were working because they loved the state, had small salaries, and then one vice president and ministers ran neatly every month and waited for some bag to pass Janjusevic and Kolesar, to deliver them and supplement them, so they were formally fair with small salaries. But then from the privatisation of Cementara "Popovac" and some other privatisations there appeared one amount, and it was quite a large amount of funds that were not in any book, not in any book, and then the fine ministers were getting far more than a few times the wages they were paying at the time. It's not resolved, and everyone knows it. There was even a sketch about a vice president who got angry that one day they were late for bringing in. A man got angry, he says, where the hell are you, Kolesar, you were supposed to pay this salary yesterday! That's what's left of it. The shaking of the mountain was born of a mouse. You're writing some laws here. You're trying to do something, you're talking about some conflict of interest, you're tying it between a public function and some private business or something else you're putting in, completely irrelevant what you're putting in, because the Agency can't know and can't get information about what's going on and what's not in the papers. You're this set of so-called. Anti-corruption laws have been well prepared, just to remind you, you have also prepared a proposal for a law on public procurement, so you have made sure that no more immovableities are subject to public procurement. You know why? Because these officials of yours, which are four, five, six, and as far as DS is concerned for ten years, perhaps more, in Belgrade in power, they already have whole floors based on corruption. They gave a building permit to some Dejan, and some to this one, and some to the midwife, and Alibabi, and this, and the floors and Alimpić appeared, and Bojan Stanojevic, and so on. Now that a man can't sleep at the same time in 16 apartments but only in one place, it should be leased, so if it were to be leased, why uncertainty if it was issued to a natural person, when it could be nicely issued to a public enterprise or a state institution. Now we're gonna get that out of public procurement, end up in silence, with a direct contract. If nothing else, don't talk about fighting corruption anymore, because if you really want to fight corruption or resign, or let the people finally change you, so let's try something new.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4572	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Kasalovic and Dejan Radenkovic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 30th amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Sreto Peric submitted an amendment proposing the name of Chapter Four and Article 1. 40 to 43 are deleted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapters 5 and 44 to 50 be deleted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4573	I'd just like to draw attention to article 46 and his relationship with article 44 of this bill. There's something wrong. I would draw attention to Article 44(2) where it is 30 days old that the report on its assets and incomes or the right to use the apartment for official purposes and so on and all that stands in Article 44 refers to the obligation to report the property of the officials. A member of the 45th regulates something else, but a member of the 46th is interesting. In the first position, you say that the committees and members of the board of directors and supervisory board of public undertakings, institutions and other organisations whose founder is municipalities or cities are not obliged to submit a report. Is that how it stands? That's how I interpreted it. In position 2, you said the city of Belgrade was the same, but unless it is making revenues based on membership. I don't know why you're making a difference. I don't know what right to make that difference. Why? What can it be justified by? That doesn't match those first members, where you are, I think it was Article 2, the meaning of individual expressions, there you have generic what a functioner means, right? You've already left something behind, I don't know why. Maybe this is a mistake. But, well, that's what you'll judge and see. I've heard a lot more since we need to speed up this debate, because it doesn't make any sense at all at all. I'd like to draw your attention to the provisions of Articles 73 and 74. Please pay attention to what is written here – the criminal act of not reporting property or providing false property information, Article 73. "A functioner who does not report property to the Agency or gives false property information, in order to conceal property data, will be sentenced by imprisonment from six months to five years." This kind of formulation and precision in which the criminal act is being examined is unacceptable. And what's the starting point for that? That's exactly the application provision. It says that the property of spouses, out-of-marriage partners, underage children, etc. must be reported. That's what's happened so far, there's no dispute. More or less such obligations and exist according to this Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, you know that big report on the 20 pages, which is being filled out, etc. That's not why I'm talking. I'm talking about this way you defined the crime. Here you have also given the procedure that the organ where the official is coming is obliged to inform the Agency, so within 30 days to report etc., but this kind of formulation, this way of determining all the elements of the crime, as one blank norm, etc., is totally unacceptable, because here the man is always guilty. He's guilty even if he makes Greek. You will be able to use a mistake like this on the basis of this formulation and a random error to bring legal consequences, not to be involved in politics for 10 years. Well, that's what these Chedins were looking for with lustration. It's Canak and that variant. Canak can't pass the election and Svilanovic says at the time, we'll make a lustration, they can't deal with politics here, they can't even run, and then, of course, we're the most beautiful ones to choose us. It's the same here. But this will also pass the Lustration Act. Something that is hard for both God and earth to survive. For the sake of the public, since I have no need to report anymore, unless this law is adopted there are still obligations to report property, etc. Here is a bill that actually changes one law and the Committee grows into the Agency, with some new, allegedly, competences. You need to know that the authority of a state authority cannot be based, to return you to Article 5 – the Agency oversees the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, sectoral action plans, etc. These are all software files. They can be binding on the government, they can be in some way binding on the National Assembly, in which sense – that certain draft laws stem from these programming documents, but it is impossible for the programming document to be a legal norm, that it is the basis for something. The political party's programme is an idea leader for a political party, and what the party will do when it is in power, based on its programme, are the draft laws adopted in the National Assembly, etc. The Agency shall monitor the implementation of a national strategy. The national strategy changes whenever you want. Who does she commit? It obliges the government to prepare draft laws according to that strategy, so that these laws can be passed here in the Assembly. End of story. You are now from one real general political act or some declaration which is something of an idea, which activities and in which direction they should be realized, make a general act of it, and yet binding, and yet another para-state authority commits it to follow. As far as the public is concerned, if this law is not passed, there are still solutions in the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. There's also that organ, it's worked more or less for a few years or more successfully or unsuccessfully. But they don't want that law changed, done, arranged. No, they're going after something that's bombing, instead of preventing conflicts of interest now they say it's a fight against corruption, the council is replacing agencies with their organs. They're putting in a few more provisions, so they're supposed to have a little bit more weight when they squeeze and twist. And that's the end of the story. So this is an impossible mission, this is a bad mission, this isn't going to be good, it's not going to be a real fight against corruption, because in the end the aim of this law is not to legalise the level of corruption achieved. And the level of corruption that has been achieved is measured against the authorities and the people who are close to the authorities. And this is the manipulation that has been conducted in the National Assembly for days, by emergency procedure, as reported by the media -- if today's bill is passed tomorrow, there is no more corruption in Serbia. And you see for yourself, and if you were to vote, the law would come into force on the hook. So you prescribed it like that! This is a really impossible mission, this is really, not to use some heavy word, manipulation with the National Assembly and, as one of the chairmans said, because someone estimated that this should be on the agenda, and he also estimated that the question of KIM and other very important issues should not be on the agenda. That's how we fight corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4574	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, the time available to the SRS is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4575	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that indeed this law is unconstitutional and that it represents a farce in the right sense of words, in order to present to the citizens the alleged wish of the DS and the parties that make up this coalition, to engage in the fight against crime and corruption, it also speaks of this bill and everything that has been said so far and that our MPs, aspects of the failed provisions and the creation of one, practically, of a para-state body, are not only true but it is your intention to present yourself, because of the beginning, allegedly, of the calculation of Boris Tadic with criminals from their ranks. It's just throwing dust in the eyes of the people, because then, Mrs. Malovic, he would have to arrest half of your colleagues sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia, not to mention some who are MPs. It is quite indicative that the former privatisation minister, who participated in robbery privatisation and MP, does not come when the set of these laws is. I guess we're out of sight and we can't figure out what happened to Sartide, what happened to firing workers in Kragujevac, how the privatisation of the company "Knjiz Milos" was done. What Mrs Pop-Lazic has proposed has its constitutional basis, because it is impossible for the Agency to do some work that has been prescribed for other state authorities, so I need to look around, and be honest with everyone and tell them that I am wrong and you who exercise authority, to what was the possibility of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. What have they done so far and who's toiling them? Before that, the Anti-Corruption Council, headed by Mrs. Verica Barac, and how it will end this law and how you will have to deal with and who you will have to deal with. He mentioned counterpart Krasic and I mentioned the form for reporting the property of the officials chosen during the presentation today. You know there are citizens who don't know how many there are, several thousand councilors, MPs, province members, representatives of the executive authority who have to file a report of property. For citizens to know, that's where you start from names and last names, parents' names, birth dates, etc., so they ask you when you're elected, what function you've been in, from when, etc. Then you start reporting on the items of what you own. Not just you, but your closest family and on the vertical and on the sidelines. So Radeta's colleague had to write in that form that the Ustashas in Guber, her hometown, occupied the property of her family and her parents, all her neighbors and friends. So I'm just an example, and that's the first time I've seen that, when a colleague was filling out a questionnaire, it was a property of 66 acres of land. Who can she complain to and who can give it back to? She was completely honest and said – under the occupation of the Ustasha Croatian authorities, or the Federation of BiH, and houses and all that they had. Let's ask that question - how will the officials who have this property, or have, return it? Did the state stand behind people like that? We also have a fellow Bhu and other people, perhaps even among you, who are exiled, or displaced faces, refugees who are left without anything. On the other hand, it's a paradoxical situation, you have officials, a man learns while he's alive, we've now learned that we've had our party's ranks in the highest functions of people who haven't reported their assets in the way it's prescribed. There he asks you nicely, "Do you have a loan, what is your month's war, do you have debts on payment cards, do you have something on savings? You know about Dinkic's statement, I don't know how many he and his wife have, 50, 60 thousand euros -- come on, please, he's reported so much. What's he gonna get? A public, non-public warning and who's going to control it? Did Djelic report that he had robbed, that is, one transaction put him in his pocket in a year's worth of 11m euros, and admitted that he had not heard from the Committee. Now to follow up on this information that we provide, not out of some indignation, so that one, now already former, functionator of our party would say – I will not answer, I feel sorry for them etc. It's not about whether someone's in such an "emotional state", so it's getting too old, so put your hands down, so, like, I won't. Let's see what you have and what the members of your families have. Did you report it in your form? You're not. What happened? Did they miss the hair on their heads? It's not. How is it possible that people who have, who are committees, who are on the other basis of elected persons, officials, take people's housing loans and report their assets, so they wonder if that amount of war has changed since that year. Now people, and most of all, are amongst the councilors, I believe in the benches of the MPs, except for those who are citizens, and they are not there, have one, their leader of the organization – come on, grab what you can, do you believe that those who were able to rob and bring their own party into such a situation, report what their wives, children, or already who, or outsiders, as they say here, or partners. So it's all a farce. Is it also when, that's Mrs. Pop-Lazic's amendment, the Committee came before the National Assembly to report to us? I don't know, colleague, if you've heard or not, but I'm telling you the truth. If the truth hits you, that's your problem. Also, I don't think you're the kind of person who deals with these things, regardless... (President: sixteen minutes. )......................................................................................................... I address you, my colleague Lovrin, regardless of our opposite political beliefs, but you don't seem like the kind of person who would cheat like that. Tadic, Gilas, of course, yes, they do and many others in the DS. You kind of don't look like that to me. (President: National MPs, time available to the SRS parliamentary group has been used. Here, I'm done. It's all farce, the Committee's report never came here and you see how arrogant the state officials are. You have an example of the mayor of Kragujevac. Yesterday, he said that despite such an explicit stance, based on the law and the constitution, he would not resign as a MP. He is still forced to say, "What can I do to see what will be decided by the Supreme Court?" So it's all farce and be safe, Madam Minister, even though you've been sitting around all day following our amendments and I believe... (President: 17 minutes. What do you say, seventeen? Eight minutes, but please tell me I'm past the time limit. All right, here, I'm finishing up, I see, Mrs. Comic, that you're not comfortable with this subject... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4576	The People's Parliament says she's misappropriated a little. I didn't say that you abused or that you didn't. National MP Zoran Krasic spoke for nine minutes. Before you were given my word, I said that the MP's group was available for another six minutes, and at 16 minutes, I informed you that the time had been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4577	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 44. Proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. Article 44(2) states that the official is obliged to submit within 30 days of the date of election, appointment or appointment to the Agency a report on his property and income, i.e. the right to use the apartment for official purposes and on the property, income of spouses or non-marriage partners, as well as underage children, if they live in the same family household. With my amendment, I suggested that, besides spouses, out-of-marriage partners and underage children, adult children be added, because there is a possibility that property could be transferred to adult children and I was convinced that the amendment would be accepted. However, when I saw that the government refused to accept the amendment, I really do not understand why it was not accepted when it made this proposed legislative solution more comprehensive and better? It reduces the possibility of abuse so that, by not accepting this amendment, I begin to doubt that the reason for the adoption of this law is to collect cheap political points, not the essential fight against corruption. I think the amendment is completely meaningful and I expect you to accept it by the vote, because it is more comprehensive than the proposed legislative solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4578	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4579	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I think that the amendment submitted by MP Arsen Đuric is acceptable and that he is in a comprehensive way rounding this matter, and this law, if adopted, will be more effective in practice and prevent cover-up and abuse. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to remind you of some corruption institutes in international and parallel criminal law, which is based on our legislation as well. Our country is a signatorier and has ratified numerous contracts when it comes to countering crime and when it comes to fighting corruption, fighting terrorism, because we are also signatories of the Interpol co-operation agreement, which is based in Paris. Official crimes include, in particular, criminal acts of corruption, which represent only different forms and types of abuse of official position. It is about different forms and visions, active bribery and passive bribery, bribery that knows a large number of modern criminal laws, but also more international acts in the first order of acts of the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the European Union. Due to the extreme danger of the corrupt behaviour of individuals and groups particularly in countries of transition – the international community and the universal international organisation, as well as regional organisations through a number of international legal acts, a solid legal basis has been laid and an instrument for organised joint action in the detection and persecution of perpetrators of criminal acts and bringing them to justice. However, there is still no unique and widely accepted concept of the definition of corruption, although it is a phenomenon of ancient origin in legal, sociological, philosophical, security, political and other literature, various issues and certain concepts of this matter can be found. In doing so, some authors provide clear precise definitions, unlike those that, under the terms of corruption, involve a wider circle of different forms of manifesting corruption. The international community faced the danger of corruption early. In fact, corruption is one of the basic forms of showing organised crime, and this is the crime of an extremely high degree, weight and danger, with serious consequences for individuals and for the country. This is about organised, often hidden long-term activities of individuals, groups and organisations in the country and abroad, with the aim of undermining even the human rights of other persons through money or other property. In order to take different measures and actions to counter and prevent different forms and types of corruption, as well as crime in general, the role of the organisation, the International Criminal Police, known as Interpol, which was founded in 1923, whose establishment was attended by 19 states with 135 delegates, whose signatories we are the aim of this organisation is to establish effective and quality international co-operation among individual countries on the agenda of countering and preventing international crime. It makes perfect sense that this organisation, which has its headquarters in France and national bureaus in each Member State, therefore, also has its headquarters in the fight against corruption and crime. Corruption in parallel law – therefore, the basis for the organisation, the social reaction against the perpetrators of corruption are acts of the international community. In order to see more fully and versatilely the criminal justice problem of corruption, as an antidote to the rule of law and the rule of law, it is not enough to devote ourselves to a theoretical and practical analysis of the traits of criminal acts. The government in Serbia is only trying to simulate the fight against corruption and crime. All the mafias that have been discovered in Serbia have been discovered in a way that reminds more of a political campaign than a state-run response. I ask the question – why are some cases of corruption revealed and some not? Why is corruption in Zrenjanin only now mentioned, and there are much more serious violations of the law in many cities and municipalities across Serbia?- I'm sorry. What is known about the influence of the tycoon on political and economic opportunities in Serbia? This is not responded by state authorities, and the public has no relevant knowledge about it. We simulate the fight against corruption, which is seen through the establishment of a number of institutions to fight corruption and crime, and there are no results. When it comes to corruption, there is something to be said about the Public Procurement Administration, which was founded in 2002. Its competence is prescribed – to control the procurement process, while for the other two equally important substances, the planning of purchases and the control of the execution of contracts concluded in purchases, it is said that this will also be regulated by the State Audit Act. However, although it has been six years since the establishment of the Auditory Institution, it has not yet begun work. The main problem with public procurement is the conclusion of basic contracts under one condition, in order to implement a different contract annex under new and unfavourable conditions for taxpayers, i.e. the state. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act will practically resolve nothing, it will only contribute to the development of corruption in greater scope, as it envisions the abolition of the Republic's Committee to resolve conflicts of interest. This law will not improve anything, nor will it be better achieved. Where in Serbia has corruption been the biggest in recent years? Serbia is the largest where the most discretionary powers are and where there is the most money! Let's remind ourselves of where we had corruption, which the citizens were informed about, and the workers who fought the battle to save their businesses and their rights acquired during the decades of work. Corruption at the Trade Court in Belgrade, the case of bankruptcy "Sartida", "Veterinary Institute" in Zemun, "Agroseme" Sremska Mitrovica, "PKB transport" Kragujevac, sugar export affair in the European Union, "Yugormedia" from Zrenjanin, an affair related to "National Savings", an affair on the sale of "Mobtela", corruption in "Carina", the case of "C Market", "Putnika", "Dunav Insurance", "Inex Intersport", "Robbe Houses of Belgrade", privatisation of sugar: The Frog, Crvenka, Kovačica, Donji Srem, Pecinci, Bač. These sugar candies were sold in October 2002 in tenders with only one bidder, in Zablja and Crvenkovski bought the largest sugar producer in the Balkans, the Greek firm, while the other three bought the company "MK Komerc" from Novi Sad, which became the sole owner and largest sugar dealer from Serbia, by buying three sugars for only 183 dinars. Something about the regulations of the Republic of Serbia in the areas of corruption, crime, and in particular with a view to privatisation. I shall state the following rules: Company Act, Privatisation Act, Privatisation Agency Act, Labour Act, Procedure and Method of Restructure of Enterprises and Other Legal Persons, Methodology for the Assessment of Capital and Property Values, Capital and Property Sales Regulation, Public tender Regulation, Capital and Assets Real Estates Regulation, and others. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that the greatest corruption in our society is where discretionary rights are greatest. And what institutions are these?- I'm sorry. The biggest corruption is in public enterprises. In public enterprises, no one controls the consumption of taxpayers' money. Why? Because we have only 12 budgetary inspectors in the Republic of Serbia, according to my knowledge, and we have 7,500 taxpayers who charge taxes and collect taxes. So, in public enterprises, you have huge salaries of board members and huge salaries of executives. And when you ask the question – and why are certain things in these public enterprises not being carried out in accordance with the legal rules and what is in the interest of citizens, you cannot get that information? That's why we can't know, because it's a secret, how much of a director in which a public enterprise in Serbia has a salary, what are the boss and how many are giving and receiving, and what are the number of board members. This is the law I'd end up with. I would now address Madam Minister, given that she has shown great correctness and tenacity to be with MPs in Parliament until the end of this work today. Madam Minister, I ask you for a notice, because I am asked by day-to-day administration workers in courts – does the Ministry of Justice predict the possibility of increasing the salary of employees in the administration? Because judicial administration workers have extremely low personal incomes. They are not motivated to work, I am in favour of respecting the Rules of Procedure, and you are taking part in his writing and adoption, and you and the Supreme Court of Serbia, with the presidents of the courts overseeing the respect of the working time of the administration, not in the sense of the matter of the trial, but in the judicial administration. I was going to suggest that you find an opportunity to go before Parliament to amend the regulation that court fees are given 100% to improve the material position of judicial authorities, i.e. their employees, because if there is no budget of other sources of funds, such as, at least, court fees, which are charged in court and are realised there, not to go into the budget, let them go to material improvements in the position of judicial employees, especially those with smaller personal incomes. One more thing if you'll allow me, I'd say it's a shame in this assembly that the driver or the cleaning lady and the employees in this House have 15 or 18 or 20,000 dinars, and that in public enterprises the same category of such contractors have five to ten times the personal income. There's something I need to do. If we are equal before the law, then in that part, in rewarding these workers who are low-income deserve attention to be rewarded, not some to reward and honor them, and do not work part-time in relation to what the authorities in the judiciary do and what they do in the bodies of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4580	National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 49th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4581	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of Article 2 49 states: ''The Agency must verify the accuracy of the report's data according to the annual plan of checking for a number of officials and categories of officials. ''In the name of the DSS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the second position of this member where we predict that this check applies to all officials and to all categories of officials. In the government's explanation of not accepting this amendment, it is said that – the government does not accept the amendment because the bill significantly extends the number of officials who are obliged to report property. The Agency shall verify the accuracy of the data from the report on the property of the officials in accordance with the annual verification plan, more comprehensive and only possible solution. We were just about to expand the number of officials whose assets, or their corrupt operations, can be checked. I would refer to Article 46. A proposal of this law, where it says that the provisions of the article are made. 44, 45 of this law do not apply to a functioner who is a board member, a member of a board of directors and supervisory board of a public undertaking, an institution and other organisations whose founder is a municipality or city. This is what we had the example of seeing in the media in the past few days what was happening in Zrenjanin, in some other cities. We hope that this fight against corruption will continue by the competent state authorities. Our goal is to get all the officials checked out, to check their assets, how they acquired their assets. I don't think we're going to get the right information on the Internet that officials are going to publish about their receipts, savings roles, immovable property and start the property they have. Just because everything is public, that everything is transparent, that everything is transparent, in the end I want to thank all the MPs and Mrs Malovic who was with us on behalf of the DSS Group. We regret that 11 amendments have been adopted by this law, of which only one of the opposition, 10 amendments have been accepted by the ruling majority, but I hope that, according to some future legislative projects, we will have better co-operation and a better understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4582	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Nada Kolundji, to Article 49. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find... (Verica Radeta, from the scene: Did you ask us if anyone else wanted to talk about Mr Miroslav Petkovic's amendment? I asked who wanted the word and I only saw Petkovic's hand. Is there anyone else who might want to talk about the amendment to Article 49, which was submitted by Mr. Petkovic? Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4583	Here's the thing. The government should not have adopted what Mrs. Nada Kolundzija has proposed, because if the government has really adopted this amendment, this amendment is in conflict with the Banks and Financial Organizations Act, account data in banks, etc. Well, and that law you've laid down, that's the first item of the agenda of this session. Bank data, banks that have data on savings, depositors, etc. They can only deliver to the court, they can't deliver to the agency. Please, the second option is to stop money laundering. This isn't about preventing money laundering. This agency cannot obtain data from banks, because if this amendment were to adopt what Mrs. Kolundjia wrote, then you do not practically recognise the Banks and other financial organisations, you do not recognise the Code of Criminal Procedure either. Take care. You're putting something in the legal code that can't stand. I appreciate you had the best intentions, but there's a guarantee here of several laws, the Personality Data Protection Act, the Bank Act and financial organizations, the Code of Criminal Procedure. It can only be by order of the court and the end of the story. Agency dealing with the prevention of money laundering, etc., that's quite another thing. This agency couldn't do that. I called to draw attention to the government that it doesn't have to mean that if an MP who supports the government submits an amendment, that you must adopt it immediately. You see for yourself, Mrs. Jorga unwittingly made strikes in Serbia and demonstrations with her amendment. Of course, Mrs. Hope won't make any strikes or demonstrations with this amendment because it's a different matter, but this is impossible. This is forbidden. Take care! I just came out to do a kind of obstruction of this pay phone, to get the wall to understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4584	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4585	Madam President, we made a little joke, it was probably some kind of technical disturbance, and it wasn't for a little bit of electricity, that they didn't think the citizens who were tracking the transmission were doing some sabotage. You're not one of those, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I will use this time on the amendment, but only briefly to inform Serbs in Serbia and Montenegro that Serbian radicals in Montenegro resist the pressures of Milo Djukanovic and Filip Vujanovic regimes. What difference does it make? It's because I have to, for those of you who haven't been in the O.R., to say, and it's also about the criminal and corrupt regime there and the one who decided to recognise the Quasi-Sip state and to directly stab Serbia in the back, that today the president of the Serbian Radicals Party from Podgorica, young Mr. Vlado Vukovic, in the center of Podgorica, has been arrested, only because he raised three fingers and thus demonstrated that he is a Serb, Serb faith and does not want to accept the occupation and terror of Djukanovic's authorities. Now we've got intel that he's been at the coroner's office all afternoon and he's been released. However, information continues to come that there is great pressure on our people. I have to tell you that the night when the separatists in Montenegro decided to legalize the quasi-yptarian state, that in the right sense of words there, and before this rally, came the curfew, that people who are prominent Serbs both on the coast and everywhere, and wherever they live, and that they are dealing with a business that is of public action or service, are suffering incredible pressure. I appeal to you that in the coming days, regardless of what we learned, and we heard it a few days ago, that, in fact, it was an agreement between Tadic and Milo Djukanovic, that after the Security Council session of the General Assembly, they decided to do so, and we know earlier, we warned that their Minister Rocen had announced something like that, we helped our brothers in Serbia's Montenegro, to tell them that they were not alone, to come out as a Assembly with a declaration that would mean the support of Serbia's state to our people there. I must remind you that a few months ago, as the SRS, before these parliamentary elections were held, while Oliver Dulic was the speaker of the assembly, we sent a declaration of assistance to the Serbs in Montenegro in the survival of our people. Here, a few days have passed, and if we as the most legislative body just go over it, if we have no hearing about what the people of Montenegro are asking us to do, our Serbs, there live young people who want to stay, they won't, until God gives them some other ways not to banish them, to go from their hearths, to live there, to give birth to their children, to school them. Believe me, it's an extremely difficult situation. We must do everything and raise our voice and help our people there, because it is the only way we can be sure that we have done the right thing and that we are the true heirs and Negos, but above all, Nemanjic and we are concerned about the Serbian state and our people. Thank you, I didn't want to go to the Rules of Procedure, just to say that young Mr. Vukovic fought today and that everyone who suffers the tortures of Milo Djukanovic's regime must know that the next place he will stay is prison. He worked everything, was on all state functions and under the patronage of the murdered Slobodan Milosevic, who trusted him. But ever since the American and Western forces took it their way, when it started in 1997 through separatism and betrayal, our people can't live there normally. So, let's say, here we are tonight, to our Serbs -- brave, head up, fight, we're with you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-17-0.u4586	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Nada Kolundji, to Article 49. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Biljana Hasanovic-Korac submitted to the 50th amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The applicants of the next amendments on this point are mostly not in the O.R. and in order to give them the opportunity to explain their amendments, we will continue to work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present at this point in the hall, i.e. that more than 1/3 of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I'd like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the Balint Pastor session. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Mr. Jovan Ćosic, the head of justice ministry. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON AGENCY TO FIGHT CORRUPTION (sumption in detail) National MP... Did you get that? Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta.
