ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u493	(Announcement by Vice-President Gordana Komic at 12.30) The Legislative Committee has completed the examination of the law in particular, the material is currently multiplying and at 13.00 hours will be delivered to all MPs, and we will begin work at 13.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u494	(The session started at 1:00 p.m. Slavica Djukic - Dejanovic, president of the Assembly, holds the presidency. ) Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u495	Ladies and gentlemen, today just before 12.00 hours ago, when today's session was scheduled, we received paper informing MP Marko Đurisic to withdraw amendments from 1 to 5, under number 011-1268/08, on the proposal for a law on ministries, which he submitted on 1 July 2008. To clarify, it is about those amendments whose purpose is to repeal the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Jobs Act. After all, it was yesterday and was the reason why DSS and NS MPs went out for a pay phone and tried MPs of the ruling coalition, and above all the authorised representative, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, to ask if the ruling coalition had an opinion on what their proposal really is, whether they have 23 or 24 ministries in the proposal, whether in their proposal, what they see, there is a ministry of human and minority rights or that ministry does not exist? We didn't ask this question for nothing, because MP Marko Djurisic, who signed the amendments, was also chairman of the DS Executive Board, was head of the election headquarters campaign of the political party in the elections. It's someone who's obviously an eminent member of the DS and certainly isn't a fre-lancer who handles this guy's amendments on his own, in his own way. Although yesterday someone who looked to us all afternoon as the prime minister of the new government, not someone Boris Tadic will propose, here at the pay phone first claimed that he was not even informed of this amendment, and after that, we determined that this amendment by Mark Đurisic had traveled from the office to us for about seven hours, and we see that this notice, which we received, traveled for about 20 minutes. Probably yesterday's photocopiers weren't working, they were believed to have something wrong, and today they're working suddenly, seeing as our tables are full of paper. How is it possible that the amendment travels seven hours yesterday, i.e. From 9:55 a.m. to afternoon, to find out about Mr. Mark Djurisic's amendment, and this morning it was enough from 11.13 to 11.45 to find out that these amendments were withdrawn? What was the main objective of all this was the question - does the ruling coalition have an opinion on whether there is a ministry of human and minority rights or not as a special ministry? So from this point on, we concluded this: at one point it was the ministry that existed, and at one point it was the position that it did not exist, which the proposed representative should not have said one single letter, even though we asked it so many times, that it would end up looking like the ministry still exists. The only thing we can't know with certainty right now is whether it may be in progress for the past 7, 8 or 10 hours on the way to the MPs might be another amendment that will change the structure of the law, because this is not a question of discussion in particular. This was actually a matter of debate in principle, because how are you going to treat the bill in any way, if you don't know whether the ruling coalition structure has any idea whether it has 23, 24, 18 or 25 ministries? If that's irrelevant, then, gentlemen, I don't know what to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u496	It is the right of MPs to submit the amendment and withdraw it in the regular period of time. The messenger did it. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Petkovic, just tell me which member is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u497	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, violation of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 225. Before I suggest the chairman, we didn't actually verify today, we didn't put our cards in. So I don't know on what basis we're sitting here arguing right now. It's another violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I'll get back to the point. Yesterday, we heard from the prime minister for the formation of the new government, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, that the ministry of human and minority rights is predicting in its cabinet. After that, DS senior official, the chairman of the DS executive board and the head of the DS election campaign submitted an amendment that brings the ministry together with the justice ministry. No wonder that material and that amendment traveled to us for seven hours. Apparently, there were no consultations between the chairman of the DS Executive Board and the new prime minister. So it is not surprising that in 20 minutes, the paper that Mr. Djurisic withdrew his amendment arrived. We ordered it yesterday. Tomorrow we will have a chance, when there is a debate on the ministry law, in particular to address both these and many other issues. I just want to ask: does this country need a ministry of human and minority rights or not? Gentlemen, make up your mind and stop insulting the national feelings of minority communities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u498	The explanations are given, and the debate on this amendment will be tomorrow. Based on the official record, I find that the sittings are attended by 172 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 115 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have working conditions. I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Jovan Krkobabiæ, Ivica Dacic and Milutin Mrkonjic. We're continuing our work. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW (single) According to the Rules of Procedure Mrs Verica Radeta appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u499	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to talk about Article 45, which concerns the work of the Legislative Committee. Namely, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, scheduled a session of the Legislative Committee for today at 11.30 p.m. The MPs of the SRS, members of that committee, were, of course, we didn't want to enter that hall to do quorum, as we don't do here either, because we never put in identification cards until what's called the assembly majority secures the quorum. The Legislative Committee until 12:00, so we waited half an hour, had no quorum, since the session was scheduled for 12:00 a.m., we went outside the hall where the session of the Legislative Committee was scheduled to attend the session of the National Assembly. This is where we found out the session was moving in 30 minutes. In the meantime, no one has informed us that the session of the Legislative Committee has been moved, that it has been scheduled for another time. Now on the table I found paper, or something that I believe is the report of the Legislative Committee, was signed by Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, whom I don't see here now, and I don't know who else can answer that question. So, I want Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic to tell us why the MPs of the SRS are not invited to the session of the Legislative Committee, first. Secondly, I insist on reading in this place the names of the MPs, members of the Legislative Committee, who attended this session and who adopted this report. So I question whether there was a quorum at the time the Legislative Committee was sitting. If there really was a quorum, it'll be a colleague, I'm sure he'll tell us now, because he'll have to. If he doesn't say that, I'm sure my other colleagues will intervene until we know the truth. Whether it's a session of the Legislative Committee, I can't say it's even moved, because we split up to come to the session. The board is not scheduled again. The session is not scheduled again. We're not told, come in so many hours, we'll have a session of the Legislative Committee. You cannot discriminate against the MPs of the opposition. We want to participate in the work, as you have seen, we have participated in the work of the Justice and Administration Committee. Our intention was to do the same on this committee, but unfortunately, we've been denied it. This is the harshest possible way to violate the rights of the Members of the People. I insist you see and tell us your transge-fange combinations, now you have the amendment, so you don't have the amendment, so when you have the amendment you don't have the majority, so when you withdraw the amendment you get most of it, etc. This must, first of all, be heard from by the citizens of Serbia, and how much they will hear from us. Comrade Vlatko Ratkovic, I am speaking to you and asking Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic to invite the chairman of the Legislative Committee to answer these two questions. So the first question - why did SRS MPs not be invited to the session of the Legislative Committee and the second question - to read the name and last name of all members of the Legislative Committee attending the sitting, to make sure that there was a quorum for this report provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u500	Thank you. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic wants to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u501	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's an answer to a distinguished colleague, Verica Radeti, who asked a question about today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Legislative Committee. I scheduled the session for 11.30 p.m., and all members of the board were informed by the professional services of the Serbian Parliament. At 11.30, we were in the blue lounge, so the O.R. is scheduled to hold a board session. There they were, there were all the board members who were present there. We simply waited, given that some MPs did not want to give the quorum the work of the board, we simply waited for one of the MPs, and he was a member of the Legislative Committee, who reported that he would be a few minutes late on the board, later he joined and we started working. So the board session was held.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u502	Thank you. Mr. Palalic advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, Mrs. Radeta and Mrs. Pop-Lazic, in that order I will call you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u503	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, and I'm talking about the DSS-NS Group, received a notice last night that the board's session is moving from 9.30 p.m. to 11.30 p.m. We came to the session neatly. Of course, it is the obligation of the majority to form in this congregation to provide quorum. We waited until 12.20 hours. So we waited 50 minutes outside the O.R. to hold a session of the Legislative Committee. Meanwhile, a notice has arrived that a session of the National Assembly is being moved. No one has informed us that the session of the Legislative Committee has begun. We are deprived of our right to discuss at the session of the Legislative Committee, to present our opinion on the amendments submitted. There is no point in denying the right of the opposition to participate in the work of an important working body of the National Assembly. If 50 minutes are delayed, if the MP's majority cannot secure the quorum, it is time to inform the opposition that the session is delayed or at least to inform the session's continuation is secured and that it has begun. I'm really pointing to the board presidents to take care of it. You have seen the representatives of our parliamentary group actively participate in the work of the National Assembly. We want to participate in the work of all committees of the congregation. It is unacceptable for sessions to be held this way. We have not yet received any information as to how the decision was made, in which way the majority, who of the MPs participated in the decision-making process, since after these two exhibitions we see that representatives of the DSS, the NS and the SRS were not involved, nor were they informed that a session of the Legislative Committee was held.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u504	Thank you. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u505	Ladies and gentlemen, colleague Vlatko Ratkovic has injured Article 104 and Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Speaking of injury to the Rules of Procedure by my colleague Vlatko Ratkovic, I must say that both yesterday and today, my colleague Vlatko Ratkovic does not respect the dignity of the National Assembly, because it is unacceptable for a colleague to come to the National Assembly meetings dressed in jeans, because we know that in the past, a rule on how someone dressed can enter the Assembly. As you know, all the journalists who are now monitoring the work of this Parliament know that they cannot, journalists cannot enter jeans and shoes in the Assembly building, and you have been here for two days humiliating and insulting the dignity of the National Assembly and are mostly coming forward as president of the Legislative Committee unsuitably dressed. I wouldn't say this if you hadn't provoked me by this harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure and by making false. First, you said that some MPs didn't want to get into what you call the Blue Salon. Some MPs belong to MPs' groups and I said loud and clear - the SRS MPs were in front of the O.R., we didn't want to go into the O.R. to give you quorum, we're never going to do it, while the opposition will never be quorum in this session or on any committee. It's an SRS position, known for years, and we, unlike you, have not changed our attitudes. Secondly, you said there was a National MP waiting who reportedly would be five minutes late. I wrote what you said. Why didn't you inform the People's MPs that there was a National MP waiting for him and that he didn't show up for 30 minutes, and you didn't inform us that we should wait for someone, or that someone reported that he couldn't attend the session for a valid reason. You did not, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, inform the MPs, move the session of the Legislative Committee, and I do not see this colleague in the O.R. that you say you waited five minutes, he did not appear in 30 minutes. I still insist that you state the names and last names of the MPs, members of the Legislative Committee, who, not by phone, but who were in the O.R., debated whether they discussed it, did not have to, but in any case adopted this report that you presented to the MPs. After your argument, I'm even more in doubt that you didn't have a quorum when you did this report.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u506	Thank you. I would ask the MPs who actively participate in the work to register first, because of the stenogram, and only then give them my word. Thank you. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u507	Dear fellow Members of the People, it may not be so bad that at the beginning of this call for Parliament we have come to the situation in which we have come. Because the fact is that since 2000, we have referred to these same parliamentary councils, slightly modified, but essentially the same, changes the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly for the only known reasons, knocks down the number of MPs needed for the Assembly to work, so we have come from 126 to 84, but the Assembly works and when only two MPs sit in the hall, it can't begin work if 84, all of which has led to the MPs taking their parliamentary duty unseriously. It also shifted to the Committee's work. I got a text yesterday in the afternoon saying the session would be at 9.30 p.m., and then I was also informed last night that it would be moved by 11.30 p.m. because the session was scheduled for 12:00 p.m. Of course I was there at 11:30. It is no more logical than to expect from the parliamentary majority to create a quorum for work, but believe me, it is not polite that, at the time you were informed that the session, precisely because the Legislative Committee did not sit, was moved from 12,00 to half. As an MP, you have an obligation to come to the session, because there have been cases where we could begin the discussion in detail and without a report from the Legislative Committee, we do not know what the intention of the President of the Assembly or the President of the Legislative Committee is, that no one, again, with that same phone, is possible by text, if not by invitation, to notify us -- a quorum is being created, a session of the Legislative Committee will be held. I cannot look at the beans whether the session will be held or not, whether the Legislative Committee will begin first, or whether the session of the Assembly will begin first, and I have an amendment already to the first member of the law. In addition, I have also deputy chairman of this committee and I think it is extremely incorrect that at least I, personally or through the Secretary of the Committee, have informed the Committee will be held, and he could say and - we will not maintain it, we have no conditions, the session of the National Assembly will begin without our report. I am only saying this because we are all involved in the work of different committees, one of us in two or three committees, and it would be good to respect this obligation, because I remember the discussion, precisely by this parliamentary majority, to transfer as much to committees as possible, to let Parliament work through committees, so we will work faster, more effectively. What's going on? We don't work effectively on committees, and we're even less efficient at the meetings of the Assembly, because we're going to be working half an hour on how the session was held, whether it's legitimate or not, whether there really was a quorum or not, and you're going to let us, we're right, if we weren't there, to express our suspicion that this gentleman we've been waiting for, and yet he's not, he wasn't even at that session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u508	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic, please, just tell me which member is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u509	Art. 27, 45 and 104. Now we've heard from Mrs. Verica Radet and Mr. Jovan Palalic about what happened. As a result, the session of the Legislative Committee was not called in an adequate way, it was that a number of MPs could not attend that session and it made it impossible for the MPs of the opposition parties to know whether the session was held regularly, whether there was a quorum on it, who attended the session, under what circumstances decisions were made. It may have been regular, but how do we know that now? At one point I came down with Mr. Ivan Palalic, because I was just interested in seeing how the session would go, in front of the Blue Salon, that's when the session didn't start and we were waiting for a while. Then I retreated to our offices, then entered this room, where I was informed that a session of the National Assembly was moving in half an hour because it was in session of the Legislative Committee, which was not true at the time, because the session of the Legislative Committee had not even begun. Of course, all of this leads to the idea that there are two reasons why it's like this. Either Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic is doing this on purpose or he wasn't able to schedule the session in an adequate manner, the third one is gone. Probably, if he didn't do it on purpose, there's been a failure because he's excited about his new function, which is the formation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the composition of ministries, because simply a man can't do both jobs at the same time, it just doesn't work. You know, you can't have that kind of burden on your back to compose the ministries, to shorten the ministries of human and minority rights and everything else, to get them back on the agenda, to reintroduce the ministry that you abolished 12-13 hours ago, and for all that time, take care of how you schedule a session of the Legislative Committee, it just doesn't work. For this reason, Madam President, I ask you not to continue to take over your powers under Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and other members who oblige you to follow the work of the Committee of the National Assembly and to react when it comes to the appointment of the Committee of the National Assembly and when it comes to informing the MPs about the timing and place of appointment of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to enable MPs to participate in the work of those committees. Anything else would be unacceptable. If I were you, I wouldn't be able to rely on Mr Vlatko Ratkovic so easily, or at least until the moment when someone doesn't discharge him from his duties as prime minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then he'll probably make it easier to devote himself to the work of the Legislative Committee itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u510	Thank you. The meeting is scheduled by the chairman of the board and in this case has acted on the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u511	Dear People's MPs, it is truly amazing how the session of this committee was held today. I'd pay particular attention, so I don't repeat what my colleagues said, in those ten minutes, a few things happened. We went to the session, and then after five minutes we were notified, or 10, I looked on that internal television, that Gordana Comic had scheduled a session and moved in an hour, allegedly to photocopy the materials. I've been paying attention, and I've seen that after five minutes of professional service, they've started sharing these materials. It's completely impossible for everything to be held in 10 minutes, and the board's session, and that the materials are being copied, and that the session is being cancelled again and scheduled in one hour. I really doubt that the Legislative Committee had a quorum here. We were all witnessing downstairs to wait for MP Bajr Omeragic, who did not appear. Since he's not in the O.R. right now, as my predecessors have said, we really suspect that the Legislative Committee had a quorum. We ask the chairman of the committee to read us the names and tell us in front of this parliament and in front of the citizens of Serbia whether MP Bajram Omeragic or someone else, but we really suspect there was a quorum here, because in 10 minutes it is impossible to do all this. I repeat, we've left, it's scheduled for the Assembly, professional services have divided everything, such speed in five minutes is really impossible to do everything. I'm telling you one more time, we suspect that the Legislative Committee had a quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u512	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic, he also advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u513	Dear colleagues, President, I'll be brief. I have no intention of turning this debate in any other direction, of course the main question is the quorum on this committee. But MPs go out, ask, questions stay somewhere in the air without an answer, so we can all of a sudden, until we get answers from the right place. I think it's the right place for you, Madam President. It was very easy to go over one of the very important questions asked by my colleague, Veronica Radeta. In fact, Mr. Boskovic, here I see right now from this position, it's really in jeans or blue jeans, as it's still called. So that's where two questions are asked. Will we obey the rule this congregation has made? Or to be even clearer, the rules for the officers of this congregation are much more restrictive, especially for the female sex. Namely, they're not allowed to show their shoulders, they can't wear short skirts, they're allowed to wear pants, especially jeans, etc. Is that a two-faced thing? Does this assembly exercise immunity to Mr Boskovic, whom he did not call? I'm sorry, Bosko Ratkovic, I don't know. How? I'm sorry, Vlatko Ratkovic, I'm sorry. You know who I mean, the gentleman who's the board president. So, I'd like to hear the answer from Mrs. President whether, folksally speaking, he's flying out to change or staying in jeans in this assembly to write us a law? Of course, that's also a message to our people: now you can see who's writing our laws, cowboys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u514	Thank you. The Legislative Committee had a quorum for work and it worked regularly. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u515	Madam Chairman, you are at the same time the President of the National Assembly, in article 27, states that you are taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly. I argue responsibly that the MPs of the opposition parties did not know about the start of the session of the Legislative Committee, and therefore they did not attend, and that the MPs of the opposition parties were standing outside the hall in order not to give the quorum, that is their right. But the moment the quorum is established, then MPs of opposition parties go into the O.R. and know when there is, when there is no quorum. The problem is that the session was obviously delayed, the start of the session of the Legislative Committee, so that it would not be known whether or not there was a quorum and that the session would be held without the presence of the opposition MPs. Please, if you have already said just so to my statement that the president of the Legislative Committee has called a session by the Rules of Procedure, please answer my question as to how you know it. Did you attend that session? Have you spoken to the chairman of the Legislative Committee? As far as I can tell, you haven't had a single hearing with him since the moment this issue was raised, except perhaps with your eyes or mobile phone that we didn't see it. Have you held a meeting or a conversation with the President of the Legislative Committee in the meantime, since this question has been asked to you in this room, so that you know with confidence that the President of the Legislative Committee has acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Madam President, you couldn't have known that. If you know more about this than we know, then explain it to us nicely, you cannot simply answer - the president of the Legislative Committee called for a session and acted on the Rules of Procedure, if you do not give us valid arguments, because here more people came out and claimed to you and the Serbian public that they could not know about the start of the session of the Legislative Committee in the manner organised by the chairman of the Legislative Committee Vlatko Ratkovic, probably accompanied by his great problem of assembling the government of the Republic of Serbia, by denying the minority rights ministry, and by returning the minority rights ministry to the Corps of the Government of Serbia. You know, a man can't do two jobs simultaneously.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u516	Thank you. I have been informed of how to call and the number of present during the session of the Legislative Committee of the Members of Parliament present, and there is a record in which you can gain insight. Mrs. Radet's word came through, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u517	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am advocating Article 27 of Item 1 3 which obliges the President of the National Assembly to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I'll try to help you. It's very simple. When MPs come to a meeting of a committee, then professional services go with a list of board members, each MP signes by hand next to his name and last name. So, very simply, you are asking Mr. Odalovic to ask for the service of that list of MPs who attended the session of the Legislative Committee. What we insist on, read those names out loud. If this is not to be done by the President of the Legislative Committee, here I am very generously helping you and telling you how you can do it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We know what the background of that has a quorum, there's no quorum. First of all, it's incorrect that we were in front of the O.R. when the session started, that's incorrect. So, we came not at 11:30, but in 11.22 minutes the session of the Justice and Administration Committee was completed, and I am a member of that committee. I went to our parliamentary premises and came back from the hallway, because my colleagues, members of the Legislative Committee, came to the session of the Legislative Committee and I stood with them in front of the hall and before that time, the term, 11:30, when the Legislative Committee was to begin. In an informal conversation with colleagues from the DS and with Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, we asked what happened to the amendment that appeared yesterday, which concerns the abolition of the Ministry of Minority and Human Rights. A colleague, Vlatko Ratkovic, said - that amendment was withdrawn. How withdrawn, we asked, when did the MPs not receive it? He says-- I got it. So, even this was planned to put on the agenda, the amendment, or withdrawal of amendments that only he had received as chairman of the Legislative Committee. When he realized in that informal conversation that he couldn't do it, that we were going to discuss it, he said -- well, this first session could end, we could end the amendment laws on the government, so tomorrow or tonight we're going to amend the ministry law. We didn't mind it being so, so we all get this amendment, in the meantime we get it, it's a transge-frange, it's got a ministry today, it's not tomorrow. So we rightly suspect that this amendment was the reason why we didn't have a quorum on the Legislative Committee between 11:30 and 11.55 p.m., how many SRS MPs, members of the Committee, were outside the O.R. So it is not possible that someone could pass, that this committee could be maintained without us seeing, after all, all that time, those 25 minutes, we also had colleagues Vlatko Ratkovic and other MPs from the ruling coalition, members of the Legislative Committee. So, Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, wrap this up if you want to go to the agenda, if not, we have both time and patience. As long as we are not read, either Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic from here, or you from your place, and you can do so in accordance with Article 27, it is even your obligation to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, to bring you the services, to write there at what time the Legislative Committee, who has attended everything, but still, and when we have it, remains a sin on the soul of Vlatko Ratkovic why he did not inform SRS MPs about holding a session of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u518	In accordance with Article 27, it has been acted in accordance with Articles 77 to 80 of the General Assembly and on the conduct of the sitting, including the minutes, in which the names of all present and absent Members are entered. I've given the secretary a warrant and you have the opportunity to see that record and the stenographic notes. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u519	When I checked in with the Rules of Procedure, I expected to get some information from you or an explanation for what happened. However, I must say, I am not satisfied with your explanation. I have expressed my suspicion, how can you know that Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic called a session or called for a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when you did not attend? How could you possibly have come to believe that this was all the same, when you couldn't ask him or the secretary of the board or any of the other staff whether it went the right way? You couldn't do that. If you did it so that we didn't see it, and we see you and Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, who is not in the O.R. at the moment, then that means that you've applied some tricks and that it's probably related to you and David Copperfield and Houdini. Because I really don't know how you could have come to the conclusion that Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic called, postponed and convened a session of the Legislative Committee under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. You can easily prove to us here what the record says, you can easily prove who signed from those present at the session of the Legislative Committee, and on this basis we can probably at some point determine the fact that the people attended the committee's session, but how can you know with reliability, with such reliability and with such assurance that you perform, that Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic called a session in an adequate manner and according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. It's just amazing. That's why I think you're violating Article 104. The Rules of Procedure in this way, because in some ways you insult the dignity of the MPs of the people. You can't make us crazy. You can show the record, we can see if there was a quorum, but there is no way to answer my question, from the moment it was set up to this moment, that you are absolutely certain that Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic called the Committee session in a manner envisaged by the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly. That's what I'm saying. I really cannot accept your explanation that Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic called a session according to the rules of the Rules of Procedure. The next time he does that or you help him, because you have a basis for it according to Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, take care of these circumstances. We will never get up for no reason because of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I would like it to be as little as possible, at least when it comes to calling the committee meetings of the National Assembly, but please stick to these books from the beginning to the end and there will be no problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u520	Soon you will have a chance to gain insight into the record. Mr. Vladan Batic answered his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u521	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it takes half an hour to prosecute whether or not there was a quorum at the session of the Legislative Committee. Madam President, you are the most responsible. When someone on the side is watching this, this absolutely looks like a theater of absurdity. What was the problem with Mr. Ratkovic reading who was at the session of the Legislative Committee? If he didn't do it, then you should have asked for the record through professional services, read the mysteries and other things all the time. This is how you contribute to that mystery, as you get the news that everything was fine. Come on, take this Parliament's work seriously, not make it look like a theater of absurdity. He who looks on the side can't be surprised. This is the most legislative representative body and you as president are the most responsible and make a little order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u522	Mr. Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic, I will now tell you what this is about and you must get used to it, when it comes to the yellow company, you must count on fraud. They're trying, which is undeniable, to fool you. He'll probably bring the record from the board, on which the board had a quorum, but this is about a different matter. They're trying to fool the assembly and they're trying to trick you. What's the scam about? The board was scheduled at 11.30, no quorum. The president, because there was no quorum, interrupted the board's session without saying on that occasion when the committee's session continues. In the meantime, we'll see, there may have been a quorum, but no MPs have been informed of the opposition parties. For what? Because the debate on the board would lead to him being late for the beginning of the session of the Serbian Parliament. This examines fraud by the chairman of the Legislative Committee. As President of the Assembly, you are ordered by Article 27, which says it is your duty to take care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly's working bodies. This is in the most harsh way possible to abuse the function of the Legislative Committee, because it, given the fact or the possibility that the discussion on the Committee extends the time of the start of the session of the Republika Srpska Assembly, has resorted to this fraud. So I would ask you, in accordance with your powers, to schedule a new session of the Committee, where opposition MPs would have the opportunity to say what they have to say according to all the amendments, and only after that to begin the session. This is how you will bear and bear responsibility for this fraud, which is clearly the chairman of the Yellow Business Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u524	The Committee's re-session may be scheduled at the request of one-third of the Committee members, so that you may have the possibility. You're not satisfied? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u525	I really need to ask you or ask you not to answer me for something I didn't ask you. What MPs have the right to do is in the Rules of Procedure and it is not disputed. I am here talking about the abuse of the president of the Legislative Committee, that he deliberately prevented opposition MPs from participating in the Committee's work and that you, as president of the Assembly, are obliged to prevent it. Because here, we're giving you facts. There are members of the Legislative Committee of opposition parties here. Please, they went out for a pay phone, said they weren't invited to continue the committee session. Do you doubt their word? If you question their word, and there are a lot of these MPs here, then we can determine whether it's true or whether the president of the Committee is willing to give evidence that the service has done what it has to do, to call the opposition MPs on the board. If they didn't do it, then you have to stop it. At the very beginning of the work of the congregation, why do you use such deceptions? Get rid of it more than that. The congregation serves all MPs, not just those who create the majority. The right of opposition MPs to participate. Here, the president of the Committee has returned, let him explain to you and the Assembly whether the services have invited members of the Committee from the opposition parties, and that is the essence of what happened today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u526	I'm getting a personal look at the records and signatures. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u527	Madam Chairman, you're constantly answering what we're not asking, and you're not answering what we're asking you. So just a little while Dragan Todorovic explained in a very simple way what the problem is here. The suspicion of the quorum is expressed because the MPs of the opposition did not attend. We can always express suspicion of the quorum, and you can now prove to us a hundred times that the paper says there was a quorum according to the number of MPs signed. The problem is in something else, is the MPs of the opposition parties allowed to attend the session of the Legislative Committee? Yes or no? MPs in line with the DSS and New Serbia say they were not allowed because they could not find out in an adequate way when, at what time, the session continued, which had been scheduled in 11.30 hours. How do we prove it? If you don't know that, that's what I asked you, you can tell me -- I don't know, and I'm satisfied with that. When a person admits from the presidency that some circumstances do not know, and even if he does not speak the truth, in a way he has moved, removed the burden of responsibility for what happened at that moment. You're doing a whole other thing. You are drawing on yourself a burden of responsibility for something that may have been done by someone else, without any clarification with a responsible person, which is the president of the Legislative Committee, and then instead of answering the question that is being asked, which is what we should do in the situation if the MPs were obviously not informed in an adequate way about the timing of holding the session of the Legislative Committee. What do we do then? This means that the session was not regularly called, so everything, and there was a quorum, all that was decided at that session was not regular. This would mean that this session has to happen again, to repeat everything that happened at that session, and everything, and there was a quorum, because you have to allow the MPs to attend the session. You can't let them grumble around the halls for 50 minutes, enter the hall, that by the chairman, at that moment it was Mrs. Gordana Comic, to be informed that the session would move in half an hour, in 12.30 hours, to go down to the Blue Hall, to determine that the session of the Legislative Committee has not yet begun because of the lack of quorum, to leave because they see that there is nothing from that job, to find out later, entering this hall at 13.00 hours, by getting a report from the session of the Legislative Committee, that the session of the Legislative Committee was held. That's impossible. What we're talking about is impossible. Please, the only way out of this situation is for you, using your powers as set out in Article 27, to give a break for the session of the National Assembly, to hold a meeting with the chairman of the Legislative Committee and to invite the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups to attend the meeting and to see that it is scheduled in a regular manner for the session of the Legislative Committee, to decide on the agenda of that session, to complete and deliver a valid report to the National Assembly. I repeat, even if there was a quorum for the session of the Legislative Committee, it has nothing to do with it unless the continuation of the session was convened in a regular manner. In this way, if you introduce it as a practice, you can call together a session of each committee of the National Assembly, and whenever it suits you, you can thus prevent the presence of MPs to the opposition sittings. It's done in a very simple way. You call a session at 12.00 hours, about half an hour, 40 minutes without quorum, the president of the Legislative Committee says, "We'll try later, we'll go, we'll go to our own office or to the National Assembly's session, and after half an hour you'll find out there's a sitting session with a quorum." How is that possible? People must be informed of the session in a manner envisaged by the Rules of Procedure. We've been telling you this all along that it wasn't done. You answer to me that the president of the Legislative Committee has called a session by the Rules of Procedure. How do you know that, that's what I'm asking you? You can't know that, you can't possibly know that. You can only determine this, and in order to determine this, you must establish this through personal insight into the files and direct contact and conversation with the President of the Committee and the Secretary of the Committee, who is otherwise authorised to implement the decisions of a technical nature adopted by the President of the Legislative Committee, such as the call for a session and the notification of Members of Parliament. It's only possible that way. There is no other way to do this, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u528	I would like to inform you once again that the Secretary of the Committee has informed me of the end of the session and I now ask Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic to practically answer the question you asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u529	Thank you, Madam President. Since some MPs have expressed doubts about the existence of quorum at the session of the Legislative Committee, I have an official document which I have presented to the presidents of the Assembly and the secretary of the National Assembly that today the third session of the Legislative Committee was held, attended by the following MPs of the Committee: Vlatko Ratković, Maja Vidinović, Mirko Cikiriz, Petar Petrovic, Branislav Mitrovica, Djordje Miličevic, Bajram Omeragić, Biljana Hasanović-Korac, Maja Lausevic, Konstantin Samofalov, Nebojsa Rangelović and Miljan Rangelovic. The secretary of the board, Dr. Radoje Cerovic, is signed. If it insists, as chairman of this committee, I can say that there are stenographic notes, which MPs, and, of course, the president of the Assembly can get first.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u530	He has the word Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, first reported and advertised his Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u531	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanović, I really don't understand why you're getting involved in all this. First of all, you've injured Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, which says that the MP who wishes to speak about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, is given the floor of the National Assembly immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. I volunteered for the breach of the Rules of Procedure long before Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic came here with a record from the session of the Legislative Committee. Furthermore, it seems to me that you don't even know what the problem is. So we came safely at half past the session of the Legislative Committee. The quorum hasn't been established until 12:00. Otherwise, at 12:00 p.m., the MPs were informed, if I am not mistaken by Mrs Gordana Komic, that the session of the National Assembly is moving by half one because the session of the Legislative Committee is under way. At 12:00, there was no session of the Legislative Committee. I was up there even after 12.00 hours and no one informed me that the session had been moved in, say, half an hour, or 15 to one, or one hour. Absolutely, what Mr. Dragan Todorovic said affects the essence of the problem. The opposition MPs did not know what time the session of the Legislative Committee was held and were prevented from attending the session. That's actually the point of the problem. Furthermore, I don't understand why you're making us accept as true what we couldn't see for ourselves? Yesterday, I showed that the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee was actually harshly deluded by the MPs, signed a report by the Justice and Administration Committee, which was first said to have discussed the bill with amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, and then discussed the proposal for a law on ministries, and the report will be presented to us by Committee President Vlatko Ratkovic, signed by Committee President Bosko Ristic. If we SRS hadn't pointed out this nonsense, that's how it would have gone. Just a day later, you're making us believe the word of the DS people. Now I can ask another additional question. I hope no one gets offended. How can we know that, say, Mr. Bajro Omeragic didn't sign that record afterwards, that he didn't sign it at the time or some other MP? I would like to be told, to me and the other MPs from the SRS who are members of the Legislative Committee -- at what time did the session of the Legislative Committee begin, and why are we not properly informed about this new session term? I don't know which time to point out that both the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and the Administration in writing the report, the report in the report, are breaking the Rules of Procedure. Even if it were a quorum for the work of the Legislative Committee, even if everything was regular, all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, what is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is again - the report of the Legislative Committee and the report of the Committee on Justice and Administration. The Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration have fundamentally different competences. (The President warns the speaker on time). The Legislative Committee should only say whether the proposed amendments are legally possible or not, or whether they are in accordance with the Constitution and the law or not, and the Committee on Justice and Administration is taking steps to consider the amendments - whether they are useful, whether they are celery, whether they are good, whether they are bad, etc. (The President warns the speaker on time). So these two committees have a completely separate jurisdiction. However, if you look at the reports of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, you can make one very simple conclusion - that both committees are calling for the same member of the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure regulate their jurisdiction in different members. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the Legislative Committee in Article 45, prescribes what the Legislative Committee does. When it comes to the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u532	Mr. Martinovic, you've gone too far. Bring in the end of the exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u533	All right, I'll take your word for it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u534	Mrs. Donka Banovic came to the floor - a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u535	The Honorable Presidency, honourable Members of the People, comes in these situations when the procedure prescribed is not respected. Yesterday we talked about a problem that arose, where the MPs expressed suspicion that the amendment had been submitted and that it had been travelling seven hours to the MPs and that some other MPs had received the amendment in time. It was so insignificant that it predicted that an entire ministry should be deleted, including the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. So, yesterday, there was no respect for the procedure. Today we see that it's been withdrawn. So we'll talk about it when it comes to amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. We also mentioned today that Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic is sitting here in jeans, and he has violated the dress Rules of Procedure, or there is a procedure. It seems to me that last year we exactly wrote and prescribed how the MPs and the people's emissaries, so both men and women, could dress and come to the National Assembly. If you remember, it seems to me that in 2005 or 2006 we forced a minister, Mladjan Dinkic, because he was in the Assembly defending a law, he was a proponent, or the National Assembly, not allowed him to continue defending that law until he left. We took a break, the man went home, changed, didn't come in jeans, came in a suit. So we had so much dignity back then, as the National Assembly, that we wouldn't allow a single minister, a representative of the highest-ranking executive, to come out here in jeans for a pay phone. So there's a broken procedure. Third, Mr. Ratkovic is not an MP who had no experience in the past term. He was president of this committee in the previous term. Mr. Ratkovic knows what the obligations of that MP who accepts to be president of some committee are. So unless 50 minutes of session had begun, and the MPs might have been able to wait another 50 minutes, however, it was scheduled for a session of the National Assembly, so they couldn't sit down and wait for the quorum suddenly. It was the order, that Mr. Ratkovic knows well, to tell the secretaries or the service that was present here, to invite all the MPs, because the session will continue. When procedures are not respected, when you do not respect what you write and prescribe yourself, then you will always have reason to suspect that it is some kind of bribery. When you respect the procedure and everything you've prescribed yourself, then this situation will not appear. We really have a basis to suspect that you have deceived us. This is where you read our names. I hear some MPs outside the O.R. say you're the one who ended it now at the bar. It may have been an insinuation that wasn't right, but you didn't talk us out of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u536	One more answer. At 12:00, I informed the Assembly that the session of the Legislative Committee was not completed. At 12.30, Mrs. Comic informed that the session was under way. So there was a notice waiting until 13.00 hours for the session to end. I would ask that, if you are not satisfied with these explanations, as the questions are repeated to both the President and the Assembly, in the day of the vote, ask for a statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure. The word was received by Mrs. Milica Radovic, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a member of the Legislative Committee, I express my protest over the way this session was held. As all my previous colleagues said, we were there until 12.20 hours, but that session wasn't started. When we received notice that the National Assembly session was moved by 12.30, we came here thinking that this way we would go with the sitting itself. The essence of the story and this problem is that we, as MPs of opposition parties, are not informed of the continuation of this session, which is a scandalous way of working this committee. As a member of the Legislative Committee, I also express my doubts about the existence of the quorum, precisely because we received notice that the quorum was magically created the moment we left the hall in which the committee itself was to be held. I think that the only and possibly most painless way to get out of this whole situation is by having the president of the Legislative Committee re-emerge the session of the Legislative Committee and thus convincing all of us that we were wrong. I can only doubt that they may not have a quorum right now, so that's one reason why they don't approach such an act, but if we want everything to be in accordance with the regulations and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, please, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, schedule this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u538	The word came from Mr Dragan Todorovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 227(1) states: "The Service of the National Assembly provides, as part of its tasks, conditions for the exercise of the functions of the MP and for their request." We can solve this problem very simply. Don't let me remind you of that people's "false is short feet." Obviously, you tried to trick opposition MPs. It's a manners for you. You in the Belgrade City Assembly have made it impossible for opposition committees to propose a candidate for Parliament's president. When you were able to do that, how can we trust you that this was also not your intention? I'm surprised by Mr. Vlatko for resorting to this way. I believe, however, that there are people in the yellow company who hold onto some of their dignity and make sure they don't serve everything and everything. You must, for your sake, do what is required of you. We've already taken a break. Set up a session of the board and invite MPs of the opposition parties as well. If you have MPs coming out here who are members of your board telling you they are not informed, I really can't understand you. At what cost do you want to exorcise what you think is useful to you? You're breaking everything, the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure. Nothing is sacred to you. How can you expect to work together on this right if you don't want to show at least the minimum minimum, which is how you did it yourself in this Rules of Procedure. You just can't take that right from us. If you think it's bad for you, I can understand you, but you can't stop us in such a way. This is the simplest way to solve this problem. I guarantee you this kind of violence we won't allow. So, you can write free this day until you give the opposition MPs the right to participate in the work of the Legislative Committee. Whenever you try something like this, we'll stop you from doing it. As far as the SRS is concerned, there's no dilemma. Think about it, enough with the lies and the scams.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u540	Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 221(1). The Rules of Procedure, which says the MP is required to participate in the work of the National Assembly. We want to share in the work of the National Assembly, and that means the work of the congregation committees. No one has the right to prevent the MP from participating in the work of the National Assembly. I remind you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that several years ago, Mrs Natasa Micic was removed from the post of Parliament President precisely because she made it impossible for MPs to participate in the work of the National Assembly in various ways. You're a reasonable woman, and I hope you won't let us go into that kind of story. So, you had Mr. Todorovic's concrete proposal here. It's the usual time to take a break. It's true, the Assembly has a break in work for one hour, it doesn't have to be from 14:00 to 15.00 hours, but apparently these yellow ones are used to having lunch at exactly the same time, because there are no more than 10 in this room right now. It would be good for you to take this break, that MPs, members of the Legislative Committee in the break debate on the agenda, that is to say, to see what agenda is proposed, whether both agenda points have been discussed, whether at such a speed it was possible to discuss the law on the ministries of amendments, because it was also envisaged. So, we have a lot on the board to say. Something interesting to me, I don't see a colleague of Rangelovic in the O.R. You have read, Mr Ratkovic, that Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic also attended the session of the Legislative Committee. I'd like him to tell us how he found out about the session, because together, he and I, we headed out in front of the O.R. and the others. I was just in his company when we left the O.R. and I'd like to know how he found out, if a man accidentally walked to see what was going on, so I saw that you still have a quorum, because LDP MPs didn't want to give you a quorum at the session of the Legislative Committee, I guess they repented of letting you have any agenda. If it hadn't been for LDP MPs, thanks to your non-existent congregation majority, even today's agenda would not have been established, I remind you of that. So, I'd like to know if you specifically informed Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic or if he just happened to find out about the board's session. When it comes to an objection relating to Article 104, the dignity of the National Assembly, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, you would really have to act in accordance with that member of the Rules of Procedure. You've been out a few times, and you should've dressed properly. Mrs. Donka Banovic, a colleague, was talking about a minister when it happened, and I'm going to say, specifically, that in the late hours, some nights, when Mladjan Dinkic was at the birthday of Leprechaun Brene, we learned it the next day from the tabloid newspaper, from that birthday we came about an hour, half a night, in some sweater, jeans, and then Alexander Vukic insisted that he should leave and change or he could not talk about that bill that was then from this pay phone. Mladjan Dinkic then turned tail, left, changed and returned in a tie suit, and here we continued the debate, I think, until 5:00 in the morning. So it's no problem, but we all have to respect it. You, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, if you think this is okay, you have the possibility to suggest to the Administrative Committee to put off the dress rule, because I really feel sorry for all the employees and all the journalists, who in this heat have to come in sandals with their fingers closed, or in shoes, who have to come buttoned up to their throats, with their sleeves, etc. So they're being harassed in accordance with that rule, and employees and journalists, because otherwise they can't get into the Assembly, and someone who's a MP can walk any way he thinks. So either warn Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic to get dressed properly or call for an urgent Administrative Board, ask Mr. Nikolic if he would accept that emergency session, call for a session of the Administrative Committee, and put that rule out of force, so that all the employees and all the journalists can at least come in this heat as they please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u542	Thank you. I got an insight into the stenographic notes, which show that the session started at 12.15 hours and ended at 12.45 hours. Who is present, who is absent, indeed when the record arrives and I will inform you again. I give my word to Mr. Pai Momchilov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the citizens of Serbia, unfortunately, you can see the parliamentary life and parliamentary democracy in Serbia choking. I went out to advertise the 77th member of the Rules of Procedure and to ask the chairman to listen to good suggestions sent from the SRS parliamentary group and to resolve this situation in a civilised and parliamentary manner. In Article 77, it is clear in the last position - a notice on the date and agenda of the committee's session is delivered to all MPs, parliamentary groups and the Government. So, the point is, everyone. If it fails, then it is normal to inform all these participants in the process of work. Someone turned the Blue Salon into a waiting room. You could have served the Cabez, some program fun to run while you were waiting. If that were impossible in the Serbian parliament, you can see from Article 86. The Rules of Procedure, which he makes clear -- when Parliament's meetings are at stake, if the president finds at the beginning of the working day that at least one third of the MPs are not present in the session room, the session is postponed by one hour. No endless waiting, no beating, no circus, but delayed by one hour. But then it's your duty to tell all the participants of the session and they'll pick themselves up and come in an hour. Why are we going out? Again, some Europeans will say, behold, Serbian radicals are making up the assembly stage a work-obstruction stands. Please, why are we insisting on this? Now let me tell you what a logical order of things you need to do. You should either interrupt the session, invite representatives of the parliamentary groups and agree on how to get out of this situation, that is your option, or, which is the best solution, order the new session to be held immediately. Why? The Serbian Parliament, like all parliaments in the world, holds the highest sovereignty. We are the direct bearers of national sovereignty here, unlike the other two branches of government, judicial and executive. We are a lay institution, members of this Parliament are from peasants, workers to academics, we make laws and decisions by exchanging opposing views. So, in an intellectual way, we are not necessarily and professional, we have professional services that help us. The essence of democratic parliamentaryism is the opposite of opinion. That's the opposition. You accidentally, either accidentally or deliberately, ruled out the opposition. You're seducing the torture of the majority, and that's what we're telling you here, and you don't understand, and you're saying that you're taking us to Europe. No, it's not Europe, it's not Asia, it's not Africa, it's something completely new, it's something only a Camelot group can do. Therefore, I ask you not to turn this parliament into a circus anymore, please act in accordance with the norms of parliamentary democracy and to get out of this situation or by interrupting this session or by revoking what is called so-called. The board's sitting and having a regular session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u544	Thank you. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u545	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. The dignity of all MPs here has been truly injured. Madam Chairman, we are not satisfied with your response. You are only partially answering the first question of all opposition MPs, which is that there is a record from that session of the Committee. You are not answering questions why opposition MPs are not properly invited to the Committee's session, which had consequences, of course, that we cannot participate in the work and that, according to the amendments that we have submitted, we cannot conclude, we are making decisions and we are expressing our opinions. Please, once again, we warn you to interrupt this session and then schedule a committee, so that opposition MPs can participate in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u546	Thank you. Please don't expect me to arbitration between the 12 MPs who signed and guaranteed their signature that they participated in the work and that the session was. Members of the Committee who have doubts about regularity have opportunities, one-third of the Committee members may request a session of the Committee again. An hour ago, I introduced you to that. I expect, if you're not satisfied, this is the way to do it. It will then be possible for the Committee to work on your proposal. Do not ask the President of the Assembly to arbitrate between 13 and 12 MPs, 12 and 11. You have a business opportunity to call back a third of the members present and the session will be held. I give my word to Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u547	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, when you were proposed president of the National Assembly, I read that you are a neuropsychiatrist, now it turns out that you are a lawyer, but it looks like a very unsuccessful lawyer, because you are trying to defend something you cannot defend. A few minutes ago, you told us that you told the MPs at 12:00 that the session was being moved by 12.30 hours because it was during the session of the Legislative Committee, or that it was not finished. At that moment of the session, there was no way you could have read to us a few minutes ago, apparently from a stenogram, that the session started at 12.15 hours ago. You don't need to arbitration between the majority MPs and the opposition MPs. You're supposed to be arbitration with yourself. Is it true that the Assembly had to be moved by 12.30 hours because at 12.00 hours, the session of the Legislative Committee was held, or not, but the session of the Legislative Committee began at 12.15 hours. I don't understand why you keep trying to take responsibility for something that represents a drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, there are two principles on which democracy rests. Principle number one - democracy is ruled by the majority. Principle number two, just as important as the first principle -- the majority of governments according to legal regulations, do not rule as they will. Did you make a congregation majority? I don't know, I guess it is. Watchers following the meeting of the Serbian Parliament can come to the same conclusion I came to. You may have made a majority, but it's obvious that it's the nocturnal majority, that most are limping in both legs, that every day you ask the question -- whether there's a majority or not. Let's say that there is, let's say that it's a stable majority, let's say that you're completely unique, should that majority work this way? Is something binding on you? Is Serbia a legal state? No one has told us, no one has informed us that we are by occupation, that the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has been suspended. Whether this Rules of Procedure applies or not. Yesterday I showed here in front of the cameras that Mr. Bosko Ristic tried to deceive the MPs. Nor do we know which law is being discussed, nor who is chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee. Today, I really didn't expect it, you say at 12:00 that there was no session because the session of the Legislative Committee didn't begin. Five minutes later you say I got a stenogram, the session started at 12.15. What exactly is it now? Who do we trust here now? Do not bring the Serbian Parliament and the MPs into a situation that is very unpleasant. I understand that you're a good doctor, and I got the impression from your biography that you're an expert in your field, but I really don't understand why you're trying to make a lawyer's call. It's not that simple a job. It needs to be kept in the head of the entire legal system. Even those who are lawyers, as you can see, are not best at hand to defend something that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. Stick to your profession. If you need any legal advice, ask us or the secretary of the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u548	Mr. Ivan Andric answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u549	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Articles 27 and 98. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Member of the National Assembly shall carry out the work provided for in the Constitution, chair the meetings of the National Assembly, shall take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and shall take care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Please act in accordance with Article 98, since this doesn't look like anything. We're hostages of indecision, we're already three hours behind in session, many of us have submitted amendments. It's all in the interest of this debate to begin. The rights of members of the Legislative Committee are clearly violated. Please take advantage of Article 98, paragraph 2 - The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations and to find a way out of this situation together with the heads, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, and to enable us, the other MPs, to continue working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the interests of those people who voted for us. We've been listening here for almost two hours. It is obvious that MPs will not step aside from insisting on their rights. Please take responsibility as president of the Serbian Parliament and find a way out of the situation in accordance with Article 98. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u550	I'm taking the opportunity to inform you that we'll be working until the end of the agenda after 18 hours. I'm giving a break for an hour and I'm asking the bosses, in line with the suggestions I've heard, the parliamentary groups, to discuss further work at the time of the break. The break begins now, and at 15.40 hours we continue our work. I'd like to have a brief meeting in my office and an agreement on further work. [[After break – 15.45]] Gentlemen, it seems that the majority has already been informed by the heads of the parliamentary groups, we agreed at the meeting, no matter what the Committee's session was formally held, that the meeting and its beginning had not been informed of the opposition's MPs and that we had agreed that this session would be re-scheduled for 1600 hours, so that we would have an extension of work at 1620 hours. I apologize for this, and I ask you to respect the reasons for the deal. So, we detailed everything, estimated that the decision was made on a regular basis, so there were 12 present, but one part of the MPs was not familiar with the start date, a new term, and we appreciated that it was the most acceptable for further work to have the session scheduled at 1600 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u553	So, in order not to make a mistake, we need to say that it is possible that the session will begin even before 18.00 hours, the continuation of the session. If we start a point on the agenda, there is no problem, as you have announced, four hours ago you announced that it is working later. But if it happens that before 6:00, we don't start a debate on the agenda point that's on the agenda today, we can't work after 1800 hours. That's the problem, and I just wanted to warn you about it, you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u554	I will consult the Rules of Procedure one more time, but we have made a decision, I remind you, that we will work until the end of the agenda, however, I will consult the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, you'll be notified of further progress and work through clubs. Thank you. [[After break – 18.30]] My fellow MPs, we continue our work. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the Government's proposal for a single government. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Slobodan Maras, Gordana Pop-Lazić, together Ivan Andrić, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Krasic, Dr Vladan Batić, Milos Aligrudić, Vjerica Radeta, Jovan Palalić, Sreto Perić and Mr Aleksandar Martinović. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments that we are now sharing. The MPs Slobodan Maras, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Ivan Andrić, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 1st amendment, in the same text. Representative of the Proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and has not just accepted the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Marash, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u556	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all for the sake of the public, I would like to read Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, which states: In the Government Act, Article 13 paragraph 3 is deleted, so far Article 4 becomes Article 3. Otherwise, this Article 13 reads as follows: ''The Vice-President of the Government shall direct and coordinate the work of the authorities of the state administration in the areas designated by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister may authorise the Deputy Prime Minister to manage a project from the work of several authorities of the state administration. ''And now the disputed position: ''The Prime Minister shall designate the Deputy Prime Minister who replaces him during his absence or indemnity with all powers of the Prime Minister, except by the authority to propose an election or a resolution of a member of the government. In all other matters, provisions of this law relating to ministers are applied accordingly to the position of the Deputy Prime Minister. '"I have submitted the amendment, as well as my LDP colleagues, which I suggest deletes what 3rd. The explanation is that it is completely unclear why the draft law on changes and additions to the Government Act insists on eradicating this position, as it addresses the issue of power and responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister in the best possible way. We have been given today by the Justice and Administration Committee to reject all amendments, as well as this amendment. The session was attended by MP Bosko Ristic, a representative of the legislator of this law, as well as Committee President Bosko Ristic, I assume it is the same person, so it is no wonder that these amendments have been rejected. However, I think it would indeed be celibate to delete this member of the law for the simple reason that in the best possible way, I once again underline, resolve the issue of authority and responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister. If he would move away, this position, as the proposal for these amendments and additions, opens the door for Article 2 of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act, which introduces a situation that we will talk about a little later when Article 2 is next. Since there are other colleagues who will talk about this thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u557	Thank you. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u558	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic has just entered the O.R., and has probably had to suspend her work on the Legislative Committee on Discussion in the particulars of the Ministry Act, and she has, as well as colleagues from other parliamentary groups, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, tabled an amendment to the first member of the amendment and addition of the Government Act. In fact, this member is in fact erasing the 3rd position of Article 13 of the basic law, which speaks of simply eliminating the vice-president of the government who replaces the prime minister of the future, this Cvetkovic, if you somehow scrape that majority of these problems you have made to the parties of national minorities, and that simply comes one vice president, both vice president and deputy at the same time, which has the exclusiveness to replace the Prime Minister in such a way. We believe that this is unrecorded and in any normal political system, the democratic system of a country, that you are unserious people, you who have suggested such a thing, I am primarily referring to this side behind this yellow enterprise and the group G17, which is also saying that you have reportedly approached open hearts, as people who care about the state and people, to the adoption of a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and now it has proved that you are only thinking about your functions and your armchairs. To tell you how pointless that is, the fact that, in no comic book, it's not gonna be like that. You know, there's always a number one in that comic book. This time it won't be Mirko Cvetkovic, because he doesn't have that political power to be number one, the boss goes behind him, he should now be this vice president or vice president. Then imagine that whole gallery of characters, of Dinkic who took on such a budget and so many levers of power and power, imagine Djelic and all the brothers who gathered in that new future government, just to continue to take away from the people and to make the people worse and harder to live. I also want to say that Mrs Pop-Lazic used this time and now she had to break up, since she is, of course, a modest woman, will never say for herself, the debate on the Law in particular at the moment she defended the amendment to help the Hague indictees, because you are well aware of the fact that by the order of your Western mentors, you delivered all Serbian heroes to the Hague casamat. For six years now, our president has surrendered voluntarily, and you can see that every day, if you watched last night, it's really more for a ridiculous Olympics than for some serious witness brought by the prosecution who's charged him with what he didn't think, not even in his sleep, so let it serve you the honor of having such a way to treat and treat the ministries that are in charge and who should be working to help our Serbian heroes, and according to this article and according to this government law. If Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who has entered the writing honorably and made the biggest contribution to the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, knew that you would go so far, but it is clear to all how much you care about the government and how much you care about it, we would insist on it, and never would you bring the Constitution of Serbia, we would know that it cannot happen, but that it is precisely what the Prime Minister, who are vice presidents, how many there must be, and how easy it is to confuse your parishioners with the constitution and so on. Like this, we thought that serious people would pass government law and think about the future of state and people, not just their own personal benefit. For that reason, in Article 135. The constitution stands - the government law is passed. But what government? A government that will sell state and national interests to a government that will continue to behave so arrogantly that the people live worse and harder. Be sure that no matter how many exclusives you get in that government, and however you think you're institutionally going to drag this tight majority through, change the law, see the end now, judge that people harshly and that we're here to point out all your mistakes and what you're going to do, which will certainly not be in the interest of the citizens and the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u559	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u560	Dear fellow MPs, the amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group was submitted exclusively for the protection of the state's constitutionality and respect for the highest legal act the future government will swear on. If I am not mistaken and the Constitution says that the government's mandate begins to run on the day of the oath before the National Assembly, and it will swear on this constitution. How can we break the constitution if we are already in Article 1 of the Government Law? We are absolutely clear and acceptable even those prenup agreements and contracts. There is always a suspicion of what, after the divorce of marriage, who has how much property and who will be appreciated in that marriage community, who will take what place, who is first and who is second, who is the head and who is the chief. But really, I don't see in the Constitution a single member that allows us to make peace with something like this. So, even if we agree politically, even ethically with that, we can't if it doesn't comply with the Constitution. When I gave my opinion to the Legislative Committee, I said, of course, not only to us, it is clear to the entire Serbian public, when this is about one of the vice presidents, one of the members of the coalition, which makes up 19 parties, which the public does not know, but count yourself, you will see that it is 19 parties, wants to be something more than the other vice presidents. If you look at Article 123 that talks about what the government is doing, you'll see that there's only one situation where it can happen that one vice president has a role to play. The government, first of all, determines and leads politics. This is not part of the government's session, and these vice-presidents of the government and the Prime Minister are exactly the same, if they want the government to survive, they agree on a government policy, but outside the government's session. Then, they enforce laws and other general acts of the National Assembly, as authorities of the administration, as ministries, it is again not related to the government's session. What difference does it make if the one sitting next to the Prime Minister is called the Chief of Staff or the vice president? Under point 3. The constitution is said to adopt regulations and other general acts in order to enforce the law. There's already a vote there. But if the government is not unique about a regulation, some sublegal act, to enforce the law passed by the Assembly, it is responsible for the Assembly. It doesn't matter who's name again, except we fed one man's vanity, whoever it is. I don't want to mention his name, it doesn't matter, but we can't pass laws to feed the vanity of certain people. We have now discussed on the Legislative Committee whether one amendment to the SRS is legal or not, we intervened with Article 3, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where we asked that, in addition, all citizens and legal persons abroad have the right to legal protection, we said - and especially the citizens of the Republic of Serbia imprisoned in The Hague – say it is not an acceptable legal term - the case. Baibokana? It's not even a fairy tale. Do we have to put the full name of 15 words into the law, if we all know it applies to The Hague tribunal? We know what a casamat is. On the other hand, we can have a Deputy Prime Minister, although that's not in the Constitution. We have not violated any member of the Constitution or any law in the state of Serbia anywhere, if we have said The Hague case, and most believe it is not legally possible. This isn't legally possible either, this is completely impossible, this is madness, but it seems that everything in our house is possible, that the day is night, that the night is day and Thursday is Friday, but let's think about it, so let's think about it as expected of us here. It's one thing the government wants, the other thing is what we let her do. If we allow it to be above us at first, and it hasn't even been formed yet, some congregation majority has created, agreed on, expected something from that government, I believe you have great expectations, you've already agreed on some program and you're already allowing these ministers to be more significant than we are. What are you letting them do? Come on, at first show them you're older than them, so you can see how they respect us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u561	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Andric, after the amendment, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we finally started working at 6:30 today and that's another reason we're going to mention in defense of our amendment. At first, a brief explanation. In the same text, several parliamentary groups and several MPs submitted the same amendment ensuring that the same formulation remains in the law that it was. The formulation refers to a vice-president who gets special powers from the prime minister that, during his absence or prevention, he performs and has all the powers of the Prime Minister. This formulation, under the new draft law, was expelled to introduce the unconstitutional and illegal function of Deputy Prime Minister, or Deputy Prime Minister, or First Vice-President. Just erasing this part opens up a lot of questions. First, what was the point of proposing these amendments and supplementing the Government Act? Why has this solution been deleted and why has it joined the introduction of a new unconstitutional and for the first time in our political history, deputy prime minister, deputy president? What reasons and motives led the legislator to introduce this new position that does not exist in the Constitution. I will also remind all MPs, if anyone else follows, that according to Article 125, which defines what the Serbian government is, they write two attitudes concerning the situation. The government's first position is made by the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers. So, no vice president, no first vice president. The second position -- the Prime Minister runs and directs the government's work, takes care of the government's uniform political functioning, synchronises the work of government members and represents the government. In our opinion and deep belief, this solution proposed by the motion is completely counterconstitutional, because even through the banal reading of the Constitution, it is determined that there is no function as deputy prime minister. What is particularly interesting to us, why did the promoter approach this solution? We couldn't hear from either the proposing representatives or the ruling majority representatives, why they decided to take this step. All we have left is speculation or what we could see in public. What undoubtedly one or perhaps the most important influence has taken place is the blackmail of coalition partners. So their request to belong to them this position that doesn't exist. In our opinion, we may be wrong, but first of all, it's a specific personality. There's no need to fool anyone. It's about Hansel Dacic. So, according to our assessment, it was first promised to the coalition partner that he would be prime minister, which is what we said in the principle debate. When it didn't go public, that's when the promoter decided to take this step. If we go further, we ask the question -- which is why a coalition partner, far minority, asked for it right for himself, and that's why we are against this law. Why did the SPS president seek the authority of the Prime Minister for himself? There is no other explanation, except that it is a different policy that he intends to lead a man who will truly act as prime minister of government. In all other things, their powers are the same. We don't accept the explanation that this is about vanity. So this is too serious an institution, both parliament and government, so that vanity can force the legislator to knowingly violate the Constitution and suggest something that will surely fall in the Constitutional Court sooner or later. It's a different policy. We are already used to seeing two sessions held in the previous government at the same time, that one part of the ruling coalition voted for one thing, another part of the vote for the other thing, which manipulates the citizens of Serbia, manipulates public opinion, neglects parliamentary control of the government and makes decisions that are mutually opposed, such as the decision on the Horgos-Pozega concession, which the new government, headed by Mladjan Dinkic, will now cancel, even though Mladjan Dinkic was the most glater in the defence of Velimir Ilic when the concession was signed. As a state, we're wasting our time, not having a single policy, wasting our time and spinning in the city, but it's only seemingly in place, because the mistakes or damages of that are suffered by all the citizens of the country. Would it be a normal situation, in our opinion, that, if there was one Prime Minister who had his own exposé? For these exposés, he seeks support from the MPs. MPs give him support for what he said, which is the government's plan and programme, and then he leads the government accordingly. Now that you introduce the position of the government's co-chair to a small door, what kind of policy he will lead, whose support the government's co-chair has to implement that policy. That policy won't get parliament's support, we won't even see it, we can only guess what it's about, but that support will be missing. It is located possibly in the rounds of the party, whose chairman is the future co-chair of the government. In our opinion, this government is composed of a broad and heterogeneous coalition. Mrs. Pop-Lazic just talked about it. Right, this government has 19 parties. Since the future prime minister, already in a certain way in a political sense, is damaged by authority, because the entire government is composed before he is appointed as prime minister, he is now introduced through another, through this bill by the co-chair of the government, with much wider powers, since the responsibility is greater, because there is no, there is no exposé to be followed later. We think that this government will be devoured by conflict and conditioning, and the ability not to speak. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's 18.50, I'm the third speaker today. Why didn't the session start today at 10 or 12, as scheduled? What's the responsibility for that? Who's to blame? You think if time goes by and nothing happens, it's all right. The one that doesn't have TV is that everything's fine. We were present today when opposition MPs indicated a three-hour violation of their rights. No one thought to do anything about it. You were just waiting for it to go away. That's how this government, too, is already visible, by ignoring the problem, is going to wait for something to happen to itself. Unfortunately, we think that instead of a compromise, which the majority partner in this government, DS, made with Ivica Dacic, or SPS, and due to all these problems, heterogeneous coalitions, that great political wisdom, which now to connect it to one ruling majority, it was necessary to do the opposite thing. It was necessary to have a strong prime minister, a strong head of government, who is able to hold by political authority this huge 19-party machine together, that the prime minister should have a clear political vision, which the entire ruling majority then divides, and we of the opposition understand what the vision is, that this political vision is shared with MPs here in parliament, that it should be defined and thus allow parliamentary control of what the government is doing. In a certain way, this now, today and yesterday and these proposals, show that this government will not be like that, that we won't even know what's going on in it, there will certainly be at least two policies in it. You added and took yesterday, and added one ministry. If there was a mandater, a person of authority, no co-chairs, no authorities in the background, with a clear vision and a plan of what he wants to do, that kind of thing wouldn't happen. Regardless of what we think is difficult for you to accept our amendment, since it is a complex coalition, we repeat to you once again, for this law and for all of these laws and proposals you will not have the support of the LDP, for all European moves, we tell you in advance, better look for support for every European move here in Parliament, and for that you will have the support of 13 LDP MPs, and we will not ignore, regardless of all this, the needs of our society, but for these things you will always have a strong opposition party in us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u563	The word is Mr. Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u564	Article 1 The draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act is very simple. He suggests that in the Law on Government, in the current text, Article 13 paragraph 3 is deleted. In the text so far, article 3 of the 13th reads -- the prime minister of the government determines the deputy prime minister who replaces him during his absence and prevention with all powers of the Prime Minister, except for the authority to propose elections and discharges by a member of the government. This is one possibility, written in the Law on Government, primarily based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, stemmed from the composition of a government designated by Article 125. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says -- made up of the government's prime minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers. In Article 125(2), point (a) is replaced by the following: The constitution says -- the Prime Minister is leading and directing the government's work, taking care of the government's uniform political functioning, harmonising the work of government members and representing the government. In position 3, he said -- ministers are responsible for their work and the situation in the area from the ministry's work to the Prime Minister, the Government and the National Assembly. It's the only provision of the Constitution that speaks of the composition of the government. The Government Act is something arising from the obligations arising from Article 135. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in which it stands - on the government is passed by law. How the government's internal organisation will be resolved when it comes to the work, this is about the Ministry's Law, when it comes to the organisation of work within the government itself, about the powers of vice presidents, the number of vice-presidents, that is the government's internal act so far. It's the most elegant way to finish this job and in the previous two government calls it done that way. I was really very surprised when I saw this bill and when I found that its backbone was actually made up of two members, which is Article 2 and Article 3. In Article 2, it seems something to do with the function of one of the vice presidents, which is extremely unusual, unusual, in one good part of the constitution. And in Article 3, when it comes to so-called. The prime minister's golden voice, also something contrary to democratic principles and against the constitution. When it comes to Article 1, he had to attack with some amendment. That's not what we at the DSS and the NS didn't do, because we assumed that someone else would do it, so in the amendment that I'm reporting for the word now, it clearly states that Article 1 needs to be deleted. If Article 1 is deleted The bill, which states in fact by eradicating Article 13, Article 3, which speaks of the fact that the Prime Minister may, in the absence or prevention of power by one of the vice-presidents to carry out tasks in the capacity of the Prime Minister, other than a proposal for the election or resolution of a member of the Government, therefore practically means that this opens the way for the development of Article 2. One-off, unconventional, anti-constitutional powers, so-called First Vice-President, or Deputy Prime Minister. Therefore, the most elegant way to get out of this problem, to prevent the adoption of Article 2 or Article 3 and, above all, Article 2 of this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act, is to actually delete Article 1 of this Act. leaving in full the legal force of the provision that the Prime Minister may authorise one of his vice-presidents to carry out his duties in the event of prevention and absence. Of course, I'm going to talk more specifically about this thing and I'm going to try to explain all the depths of what's ahead of us when it comes to the bill, especially Article 2 of this law, when it's on the agenda. when a debate on my amendment is found on the agenda. I just came out here to say that in this context, it's totally no matter whether we support this amendment, and subsequently if it succeeds and passes and the amendment to Article 2, that it is deleted, or we simply leave that there is a member of this law, and that completely amends the provisions of Article 2, as proposed here, which we will talk about later. I went out in principle to support the amendment that was proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u565	He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u566	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Amendments to Art. 1st and 2nd. The draft government law is linked because the members of the 1st and 2nd are interlinked and refer to the government's functioning in the event of the government's prevention of the government's leadership. Even this former member, who had been regulated, was not completely correct, and at least there was a surplus in him. In fact, the member spoke about the power of a vice president to replace him with full capacity, except with the possibility of proposing the resolution of a member of the government or the elections, but the constitution did not allow it, because the constitution clearly states that only the Prime Minister can propose a resolution of a member of the government and only the Prime Minister can propose disbanding the Assembly, which leads to the elections. So, even if the bill, which should do so, leaves us the possibility that the Prime Minister of power of one of the vice-presidents to replace him, we do not have to prescribe what the Constitution has clearly regulated, and that is that the one who replaces the Prime Minister does not really have the right to perform certain functions of the Prime Minister, because they are strictly intended in the Constitution to the Prime Minister. If we follow the wish of those of us who voted here and voted this Constitution, we propose it to the citizens in a referendum, the wish is expressed through the function of the Assembly, the Government and the President of the Republic. Where is the deputy in those functions scheduled? Nowhere. The President of the Assembly has no deputy under the Constitution. The President of the Republic doesn't have a deputy, the Prime Minister doesn't have a deputy. Otherwise, the President of the Republic could by some law, in which, in co-operation with the General Staff, perform some operations, saying that the President of the Republic authorised the Chief of Staff to replace him in the event of his absence. It would be about like if you wrote in the Rules of Procedure -- in the event of the prevention of the National Assembly president, it is replaced by the first vice president, vice president of the Assembly. It can't, it doesn't say that in the Constitution, and it can't be like that, and it won't be like that, and you can bargain and negotiate as much as you want. I still have confidence in the highest court, especially in the Constitutional Court, because when he doesn't want the ring to come up with a solution. We may be waiting too long for some constitutional court solution to this request that the SRS has already sent to the Constitutional Court and asked for an opinion. But I'm going to have this government, which is where I get into a matter I don't know at all, except I know people who liked it, and here's Dr. Paunovic, so Dr. Dejanovic can tell you a little bit more about it, it looks like a day hospital. Thirty people have gathered together, each of them has their own complexes, each of them has their own frustrations, each of them has their own fears, every unreal ambitions, every one of them has a lot of wishes, and now you find someone to heck, someone to scream at, someone to do goblets, and these guys, this guy's gonna be the minister for this, the one for that. And this one, who's a little bit of a vice president, we should write to him that the deputy, even though you people are very smart, even though you're very serious people, even though you know it can't be. I understand why Boris Tadic is taking part in the game, he cares about the government. Everything after that is on you, all the responsibility, the shame, the shame, so when the media gets a little free, the mockery of the media will fall on you who vote for it. I don't know how to explain the absurdity of this situation to you, like if you voted here that the river would run downriver for a week and a week upriver, because that's what you decided. You can't decide everything by majority vote. You can do a lot of things. The constitution predicted that someone was controlling you and us as MPs when we made a decision. First, the law, as a major defence supporter of the constitution, should bring Boris Tadic back, as it has already happened when he quarreled with Vojislav Kostunica to return the laws of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, advertising them unconstitutional. Now Boris Tadic, who says he has a good team, and in the quality of his legal team, I became convinced when they wrote the indictment against Vojislav Seselj, there she is for mocking the world's legal public, so Boris Tadic, who has a team of lawyers around him, should have asked them -- would you also embarrass yourself and tell me to sign this law. This law cannot be signed by the President of the Republic. About this law, when Boris Tadic returns it, and don't forget, the Socialist gentlemen once returned one senseless law to you and Slobodan Milosevic and thus won popularity in the people, and you stayed here to watch what was going on and what was going on. It was the law on the return of property to the Serbian Orthodox Church. Then Mr. Milosevic said - I'm sorry, there are other churches in Serbia, other confesions, they've taken property, I won't sign this for you. It's like they're from two different parties. What if Boris Tadic, when you send the law to the presidency, comes back and says, "I'm sorry, where you saw Deputy Prime Minister, I didn't find him in the Constitution, I'm not going to sign this law for you. At the same time, if Boris Tadic violates the law, his responsibilities in the National Assembly may be raised. Then you're going to protect him, you're going to make it impossible for him to be removed, and in fact this is just agony. Why are you being so blackmailed? Why don't you sit down as people to arrange for that government? You little ones say we're small, to see what we can do, not to endanger the ideology of you big ones who will lead the government. People here are guessing who this deputy president is. I know at least three people who would like to be these deputy prime ministers, even though it's not in the Constitution. Don't accuse just one of them. Many small ones have been gathered there, and now Serbia is again in a situation that those who did not have a vote for censorship have joined the big Democratic Party, entered parliament, decides on 60 per cent of Serbia's budget. Aren't you ashamed, gentlemen of the Democratic Party? Is there morality in you? Will the whole of Serbia raise its budget to be spent by Mladjan Dinkic? Who is this Mladjan Dinkic? What is it worth among Serbian citizens? If it was worth it, you'd go alone. No, you dragged him into parliament. Whatever he's got for you, you'll see by the Ministry Act. It's the same with you, socialist gentlemen. We'll be on the same page, and your departments will be on the same page as they agreed with us. Then what's the verdict? When we said we were the same ideology and we cheated on Serbian citizens for a month that we had agreed, what ruled that we didn't agree? One day you'll have to tell us. That post of deputy president, she'll fall and we couldn't agree to her. What else was the reason? The left-wing ideas of the Democratic Party? Is that the sale of Sartida? Is this the sale of the entire Serbian economy? Where's Minister Novakovic? A month ago, he bid one facility in Belgrade for 118m euros. Washed the courts in Canada, came here, earned 118m euros in government and Zoran Djindjic expelled him from that government as a thief. He is now buying Icarbus, buying everything in Belgrade. What about these others? What about Mladjan Dinkic, who lives in a two-room apartment, poor guy, has no place to put skis when he comes from skiing, will swim about them in his apartment. Or he was pleased that others were stealing hundreds of millions, and he lives in a two-bedroom apartment. If you can't do it with a lot of morality, with a lot of faith, with a lot of seriousness to create, don't create a government. Let's go to a new election. Here's the DS you're not afraid of new choices, you're saying they'd be the solution. We're not afraid of them at all. And don't run these gnomes. Your president calls them mice. He says mice will lead Serbia. Now they're going to lead with you in the coalition. Let's make those two blocks. Who can enter parliament, go alone, and who can't join the DS. What do you need that for? Now they're going to separate you from the MPs' clubs, and now the conflicts are about to begin. You write the amendments, you withdraw the amendments, you haven't even begun to rule. Any concessions, no concessions? Well, this Dinkic is from the government that proposed and adopted that concession, and how can he now say he's against it? It's the other Dinkic, who knows it's Slavica, because two people are at his place - one day one day another or half an hour away, God knows how he divided them. You really need to understand one day that the state is taking it seriously. You put up with the year-to-year criticism just because you're not seriously going to run the country. You say you win, so lead the country. Every time we go out for this pay phone we'll tell you -- you don't run the state, you just brag about it, and the country is run by these others, those who have two, three, four ministries, but the main ministries. I don't care who takes the police and Biu, it's important that this little money that the poor collects in Serbia, who will properly distribute in Serbia. You won't take care of it, you won't take care of it. You gave it to others. That's how it's gonna be for you. I'm always well-intentioned when the government is formed, until it's formed, and then -- why, when you don't have good intentions, why should we have good intentions. Look how you work. You've been calling one board all day, until 6:00 p.m. Then brutally - no opposition MPs, it doesn't matter we'll work. Where did you see it and where did you learn it, in which parliament did you learn it? When they took you on tours across Europe where you saw it - that the opposition's wish was played out, that the opposition was wrong? That opposition, that's half of Serbia's citizens. Whenever you think you're cheating on us here and making some monkey noise, doing something besides the Rules of Procedure, you think that's what you're doing to half of Serbia's citizens, I don't say better or worse, but half of it. Add up how many votes they have, and how many have the other, or you'll convince me that you're the same MP group with Mr. Kostress, that you're bound by ideology. He's an autonomist. You're not autonomists. But, well, I see that Mr. Kostresh has given up his autonomy, adapted to the new situation, and these Hungarian national minority MPs are participating, so you wanted to make them, they're not in the O.R. today. You're fighting a battle for Saturday, and so you lead now, you win the battle, here you win the battle for Saturday. Your honor, only 30% of the electoral body, the Serbian electoral body is the only opposition there. There is only Serbia's opposition in Saturday, so you watch what it means to you - whether it's good or not. Is it only good to reject all those who plead as Serbs? That looks like something like Montenegro to me. If that's how you win the battle, it's Pierre's victory, it's gonna cost you a lot. I'm just looking for some thread to tie you up and I don't see it. When I don't see her, other people don't see her. They are much more educated, more written and wiser, more experienced than I am - what will they say to you? You know exactly what to put in the pie, all the ingredients are known, their quality, taste, smell and wonder only of these ingredients are real.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u567	Thank you. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the replica Mr. Kostres.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u568	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I have to say that I am speaking because it is the nature of my job to hear everything in the post of vice president, so I hear what other colleagues are saying at the chair table. I mean, I have to give an explanation, obviously, it's not clear to some people. I'm sorry to have to explain these initial steps to someone, and someone will recognize it. As Mr Tomislav Nikolic spoke, it was clear that he appeared after the amendment to Article 1 of the amendment to the Law on Government, which refers to the basic Article 13 of the Law. I must remind some here that the amendment in the same text was submitted to article 1 - Slobodan Maras, Gordana Pop-Lazic. The time of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment submitted by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, was used by Mrs Pop Lazic and my little one in 15 minutes and together by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. I understand Mr Tomislav Nikolic has responded to the amendment by Slobodan Maraš, right, there are 15 more minutes available under the amendment, which in the same text have submitted other colleagues I have read, so that there is no confusion. Because our submission to the amendments in the same text obviously made us suffer, including these Eldepeans who were against the Constitution. Now they have experienced defending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. To avoid confusion, I call on the MPs of the SRS, first and foremost these excellent lawyers, and others, to take advantage of the time and to report on the same amendment submitted by colleagues Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u569	Thank you. The word is from Mr. Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then you have a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u570	Thank you. Since Mr Nikolic mentioned the Socialists, I think it is my turn to answer him and the public of Serbia. I thought, Mr. Nikolic, that you knew the reasons why the negotiations failed, but from what I've heard, you don't seem to know. The reason for the failure of the negotiations was not in the ministries, the relationship with the ministries did not decide on it, but on the policy, and the questions we asked and the answers we did not get. It may seem funny to someone, but it's true. [[Laughter]] If we are talking about ministries, then the public of Serbia should know, and this also shows the relationship towards the SPS, according to the PUPS and the Unity of Serbia, that after the talks held by DSS and New Serbia and the SRS, as a coalition, we have received an offer, yes, we have received an offer that includes, one post of vice president, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad and the Ministry of Social Affairs. We have said, as a coalition, that we will leave the issue of the ministries in a different way and that we want to hear what answers to the questions we have asked, about pension issues, 10% of the pension increase once, and that pensions cannot fall below 70% of the average personal income, given that 49.3% is now the average personal income. We didn't get an answer for that. An expert group has been formed that has never had a meeting and should have considered these economic and social issues, as there are no social issues without economic issues. Not to mention the Labour Act, the Employment Act, the Health Protection Act and the Higher Education Act. Above all, to our great surprise, even though we asked that the issue not be put on the agenda at all and not in agreement, the DSS-New Serbia group went public with the view that a Stabilisation and Association Agreement should be annulled, which was directly against something we advocated. But the public of Serbia must know what your attitude is to us. We've heard a lot about how we wanted to talk to you, but they need to hear how you treated us, and that's what we need to talk about. In the last ten days, there have been insults, insubordinations, threats. If someone thinks that's what partner relations are for, then he's absolutely missed something, in some way. That's why, Mr. Nikolic, believe me, not the Ministry. I simply have an obligation, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to make these public and, if necessary, other views on the matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u571	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u572	I don't just know how it got someone to feel called to react like this. Now we feel called, who we participated in some of the negotiations you mentioned. I wanted to say something else and appeal - leave that story alone. If you're feeling any problems or complexes because of what happened, it doesn't have to continue. It's really not necessary. I really don't see who mentioned it here in any context any negotiations, anything that was done before. No, that's not what we're talking about today. I don't think even Mr Tomislav Nikolic talked about it that way. If you have a problem, you feel guilty, you have some problem with it, okay, I don't mind, you can have, but there's no need to discuss it every day. Please, if you think the future needs to be driven by the polemics that way, at least tonight there's no need. When we talk about government policy, then we'll be reminded of all kinds of policies, those that were no longer, what got together, what got separated, what was going on and where it was going. But we'll see, I guess we'll hear the prime minister, his exposé, see how he's doing with his great political power, great size, he's been able to connect it all, what it looks like, how it all works together. Then we'll talk about it. So, what you said for a second, I don't think anyone's interested anymore. Today is today, tomorrow is tomorrow. Easy, we'll see how things go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u573	Mr. Kostresh, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u574	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to say a few things, so that there is no misunderstanding, about my autonomy, and about what I think and feel. I am a Serbian citizen and I love and respect Serbia, but since I love and respect Serbia, that does not mean that I should allow Vojvodina, the citizens of Vojvodina and the Vojvodina to be put on a different path. If it is a betrayal that I ask that what is earned in Vojvodina remain in Vojvodina, if it is a betrayal that I ask that those who most create and most have and if it is a betrayal that those who live in Vojvodina and manage their resources, as well as those who live in the Ninth region, and like those who live in the Shumadia, and like those who live in Sandzak or in the Raška region, as you already love, then we have a different perception of things. Personally and the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina will support this government only until then, and only until then, while the government will lead Serbia into Europe, into European integration, and while this will mean a better and better quality life for all those living in Serbia, regardless of religion, regardless of nation, regardless of origin and no matter where they live. If that government does anything against the interests of the citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, Mr. Nikolic, believe me, I will be against it, as I have been against everything I thought was against the interests of the citizens and the citizens of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u575	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u576	This is interesting, we haven't heard this before. But then, I suppose, even before the election of the new government or the creation of this new parliamentary majority, on the basis of what Mr. Kostreš said, do we know whether it means that the duchy pensioners will get more pensions than those in Vranje, Leskovac, and whether PUPS and SPS agree to it or not in these negotiations, and whether they will indeed insist and how stable this majority will be then, since without Cank's party and Mr. Kostreš, there is no majority? From 129 when you say no to four we get to 125.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u577	Mr. Toma Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u578	Mr. Kostresh, I wish someone from the DS had listened a little bit better, so he could answer if he totally agrees with what you said. So, it is not what is earned in Vojvodina that remains in Vojvodina, but what is earned in Serbia to stay in Serbia. If you have ever read anything from the political economy, economic policy, you need to know that there is even regional development, that the state is obliged to provide it, and that means that you can't say that one part of the state is going to be rich, and one part is going to be poor, but that their development is going to be balanced, and that's where the funding is going to be decided by the National Assembly when it votes the budget. You are a member of the party whose president cursed Serbia's mother as he threw a board of Serbian Television in Novi Sad. I'll never forget that. If you have evolved since then, if Serbia has really become your home country, I accept that, but I can't imagine that DS will form a government in which it will satisfy your ambition that any dinar that is made on the territory of Vojvodina remains on the territory of Vojvodina. There's no such thing in the world, Mr. Kostresh. It's a sovereign state, it defends the sovereign state -- its income and expenditure provides and balances, balances. And if one part of the state says for itself "all I earn will remain with me" or "all that is in my territory I will manage," it exceeds the limits of autonomy. They can tell you something about that and people who deal with regional organizations. So I have no confidence in you and your good intentions for Serbia at all. Whoever makes a government with you doesn't want Serbia well at all. How will your ambitions - as long as you support the government, be satisfied in this government of the Republic of Serbia? In what way will this great Prime Minister be able to satisfy your desire to remain in the territory of the Vojvodina? This is the latest thing I've heard. It used to be "where's our money," so "who's robbing us," but now I'm telling you nicely, Mr. Kostresh. As long as Serbia exists, the revenues achieved in Pirot will not remain in Pirot, the revenues achieved in Novi Sad will not remain in Novi Sad, the revenues achieved in Užica will not remain in Užica. It is known exactly, according to law, that part of the tax revenue achieved, which remains for which units of local self-government, the rest goes to the Republic of Serbia's budget. And the AP Vojvodina budget, while accepting something that is not quite in line with the SRS programme, has been complemented by additional provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which now guarantee revenues to the Vojvodina budget, so you cannot say at all that you will be threatened in any way, by any authority to change. Mr. Obradovic, I still didn't know how it came to be the DS partner of the SPS. I don't really care anymore, and I don't want any conflict to arise about it. We'll see if there's a conflict between us in 13 days or not. I don't think so, and it would be good if there wasn't a conflict over the Republic government. True, I heard the words of the Dacic edge, and he said to me himself, "People, we're coming with you." After that, it changed. Here, let me say there were no words about Belgrade. The word has fallen, and now that it is broken, let it be trampled. As for the composition of the ministries, it's not -- what you were offered, it was agreed. I haven't heard a single word of objection from the ministries to be run by the SPS, but it was already clear that you won't give or object, and that it's not the goal of objecting, but that the goal of waiting for you to go with the DS. Okay, that's your trip. We'll see if she's okay or not. Now I can see it's not good, but it's just that sometimes I can fool myself. Indeed, since you are so much needed by the government of the Republic of Serbia to be established, this condition around Belgrade could be set up, so to say, that we are coming to the National Assembly session, we are constituting, we are passing laws on government and ministries, we are choosing a government, we are having a session of the City Assembly in Belgrade. Until you schedule a session of the Belgrade City Assembly, we will not attend a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It would be a move that would be welcomed throughout Serbia, nor would anyone conspire you to form a government with yellows, nor should anyone blame you for insisting on building Belgrade. I think this is a humiliation to your policy, because they tell you in your eyes that whoever government in Serbia has to rule in Belgrade as well. You allowed them to rule Belgrade when you ruled Serbia. You never set that condition. You were very moral to local self-government. Wherever they won, they exercised power, they got rich, they became millionaires for the first time, on the budgets of local self-government, that's where they took your power in 2000 on local televisions, because they had 200 local TVs under their control. Now if someone told you, you can't form power with radicals in Belgrade, you have to come with us and in Belgrade, such blackmail and I wouldn't stand for it, nor would I want to talk about it. That's what the President of the Republic says on state television. I've never heard one of you stand up to it. Once you agree to blackmail, you are no longer looking for grounds to fight. Only once if you accept any blackmail. I hope you will respect these men of yours who are day after day on the streets of Belgrade and seek only their right to decide for themselves. When I asked you why you and Jesic made power in India, you told me, we have no influence on local self-government. They're autonomous to make a decision on who they're going with. And I said good. At that time, we were talking a lot about the DSS-NSS-SRS-SPS coalition in almost all of Serbia, in 90% of municipalities that you didn't start running away, and I can see that the DSS in some municipalities is getting away and some apostates are building power with yellows. So, I haven't been in politics since yesterday, trust me that rarely anyone can cheat on me, rarely when I'm making the wrong judgments. I can see now that it's not good, that moving on in that direction would just be an even bigger entanglement and there's a way for all of this to work out. You've gone to the government of the Republic of Serbia, so be it, God forbid you achieve those goals. But don't talk about pensions, that pensions will fix the one who destroyed them, that the Company Act will change for you whoever destroyed it, the strike law, the law on disability, pension and social security; so in 2001 we fought against Djindjic's government when she passed those laws that Tadic now promises you to fix. These are laws under the EU dictatorship. You want to go to the EU? The World Bank? IMF? How do you mean to get out in that government of the Republic of Serbia, I don't know, 10% pension increases, we all saw there's a foundation in the budget by the end of the year, we talked about it in these negotiations as well. After the new year, I couldn't really tell Jorgenka, promise them 70% of the average profit when it won't be. Now the law is 60%. You don't ask Ministers Djelic and Dinkic what they didn't pay, but you now believe them to pay 70%, and they came up to 46%, because that's two times a year, the profits go to heaven, and the pensions wait six months for alignment. So, you can think he won't cheat on you, and I'd be much more careful with them performing. I'd have at least some back-up if I didn't want to stay completely in their power. You know, when the government is formed, it's hard to collapse. Hardly. Every coalition partner, no matter how much he is, is no longer going down the government, or at least how important he is. When ministers start kissing and women start going around drinking coffee together, when their aunts start driving by the official car, the government's been putting together for two years. That's why I'm asking you, I have no intention of arguing with anyone here, not even with the yellow ones. Just to be correct. Let's talk about negotiations not to talk at all, because what I was wasn't bad words. About the threats I heard about, ask Krkobic and Dacic, I asked at the meeting - what threats. I didn't get confirmation there were any threats, and in the media, I was saying you're complaining about someone threatening you. I wanted to provoke whoever's threatening to show up, because someone would spoil our negotiations just by turning your cell phones or your women's phones and threatening. I don't believe it was the one you transferred it to, I guess it was his interest to make a government. If there were any threats, let's go to the polling board, let's explore phone calls and find out which base stations they came from and at what time and determine exactly who called. Let him answer. If he's from the SRS, he won't be free, not in the party. You need to take a good look everywhere. So, as far as we're concerned, we're not gonna open any discussion with you. If we have to fight, God of health, after forming a government and government in Belgrade, we'll fight like we never knew each other. If we don't have to fight, we'll never fight. Now let's fight over why the negotiations didn't work out, we won't. Unfortunately, we weren't exactly deciding in those negotiations, and I think they would succeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u579	The word is Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u580	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to be very trendy, so I'm not talking about the Rules of Procedure, I'm talking about the agenda. It is already pointed out, of course, that all three amendments have been submitted to Article 1 in the same text. Actually, it's kind of my profession, I'd generalize it. In fact, three amendments to Article 1 and 5 of the amendments to Article 2 submitted by Mr Milos Aligrudić, Andric with colleagues, Mr Batić, Mr Krasic and Mr Maras, and essentially treat the same problem. In fact, all these amendments advocate that the place so-called. The first vice president, although I don't know exactly what that means, or the Deputy Prime Minister just shuts down. I spoke in the debate in principle, and many colleagues here read very clearly Article 125 and some other members of the Constitution. It is clear that this member of this law is anti-constitutional, should not be an expert in law, nor a great expert in law, so as to see that it is against the constitution. Probably, if we were living in another country, this argument would be the last argument, the first and last argument that would be enough to put that member out of force. But, unfortunately, we live in a country where there are other arguments that need to be made, because just to say something that's unconstitutional, it seems to be here for no one to commit to anything. What it seems to me is that one has completely exceeded the position that in the previous Government Act, in Article 13, was standing, which is one of the natural powers of the Prime Minister that in some exceptional situations he can transfer a part of his business to one of the vice presidents, where it is understood, of course, that if someone deserves to lead the government of a country, he must be responsible enough to be able to assess which kind of work the vice president and for which kind of business he can replace. Somehow, it seems to me that this future parliamentary majority that chooses the government does not have overtrust in the prime minister or future Prime Minister. On the other hand, it is obvious to me that if someone insists there is a Deputy Prime Minister, there is obviously one serious mistrust between future coalition partners, which, slightly speaking, is now, while the government has not even formed, concerns. So I think and I hope that the majority of the assembly will change their minds and that, in this case, Article 2, in this case, simply kicks out of this bill, which would, of course, automatically mean that there is a previous formulation, meaning that Article 1, too, is a natural, logical consequence of all this. In the end, allow me two more notes. No matter what more they say about it will be at tomorrow's session, when we consider the second law, we have witnessed giving and withdrawing amendments related to the abolition of the Ministry of Human Rights, by those who swear on their future European path, swear on Europe, etc. In doing so, the fact that there is a Ministry of Human Rights is not actually a condition of the European Union that we are seeking, but is a condition even for the Council of Europe whose members we are. Connecting it to any other ministry, including the Department of Justice, is completely pointless. We have to be serious about human rights, especially in this area where we've been through a lot in the past. Therefore, I think that such an easy elimination, so returning to the threat of some of the coalition partners, doesn't matter who, it just seems terribly unserious to me, and I'll talk about it more tomorrow, when other things are discussed. In the end, I would remind myself of one thing, it seems to me, too much to ask Mr. Andric, who asked one question that we all here, no matter what group we belong to, we can ask, and that's what we were doing today from 12 to 18:30? I would offer one answer, some others may disagree with me, so some offer another answer, which is the fact that those who claim to be a congregation majority have to do so in the congregation's work to prove it. Then it wouldn't have happened if he hadn't voted for a motion to join the debate points, so it wouldn't have happened today that a quorum for the Legislative Committee was being chased, so there wouldn't have been an addition and a withdrawal of the amendment. You just take this as extremely well-intentioned as my remark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u581	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Zlata Djelic, then Zarko Obradovic, then Mr. Kostreš.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u582	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must say, first of all, one of my own belongings. I am from Vojvodina, from Somboro and my seven generations at the great Orthodox cemetery in Somboro give me the right to ask a question to Mr. Kostres. There are no majority people in the world who demand to be separated from their native people in any way. The dukes for centuries, remember only the example of Svetozar Miletic, who is the brightest in this, fought in various ways to join his native Serbian people, and fortunately, fought for it, because they realized long ago that only together and increased were they stronger. Of course, many tend to crush him, break him, and know what it is, but it is never well-meaning for the people to whom it seems, as in this case it is not well-intentioned for the Serbian people to force this particular northern province. The fate of the province is known, and it is known why it was done in communism at the time. But if we insist as dukes that the Dukes have what they earn, that's fine, but the Dukes have to have along with the Serbia they live in. If something is so categorically sought, I must ask you, does this mean that you will refuse to receive the diaries and salaries of a MP whose funding is being attended by all Serbian citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u583	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u584	I would like to thank Mr Nikolic for the advice he gave me, both me and the Socialist Party of Serbia. We are a responsible political party, at least that's what we consider ourselves to be, and of course, we bear responsibility for both our politics in the Republic and the city, but let and let some things show time, so we'll see if anything is possible or not. If we want to be fair to each other and to Serbia, many of these laws I mentioned were passed in 2001, 2002, 2003, some in 2004, 2005. We find it insufficient and therefore we think that there are both opportunities and opportunities to do something in the future, so we'll see if that's good or bad. Of course, compared to that, we are willing to bear responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u585	Mr. Kostresh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u586	Madam President, dear colleagues, I wouldn't be too much of a discussion about who prefers Serbia, who loves Serbia less, I think it offends the intelligence of all of us here. I wouldn't go so far into this guy's debate for the simple reason that none of us would come here to this parliament, to this high house, that he doesn't want Serbia well, and that he doesn't want Serbia to make a better place for life for himself and his neighbours, both for his family and for his environment. It's simply that we have different opinions about how Serbia should be organised and that we have different visions of whether Serbia should be decentralised, regionalised or should be a unitary state, it's just saying that, thank God, Serbia has become a democratic state and that there are different political parties in it that think differently and that see Serbia's future differently. But I don't think there's any of us here who want Serbian citizens and citizens to live any worse, that there's none of us here who want us to go back and none of us who want anyone here, any of us present, any of our citizens or citizens, anything bad. So, there are different political programmes, there are different political visions, and that is what we will be conflicting about, especially us from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and representatives of the SRS, because we have a diametrically opposite vision of what Serbia should look like. But I cannot accept discussions and qualifications that someone is less, and someone prefers Serbia, because I have never heard that a committee is formed that measures love for Serbia and gives a certificate for "Serbian" and for someone who does not love Serbia. So these are things I don't want to discuss here. What the distinguished colleague from Somboro said was the fact that members of the Serb community or Serbs in Vojvodina in 1860, headed by the Duke of Šupljik, formed the Duke of Serbia and Banat, thanks to Vojvodina and many mind heads from Vojvodina and Serbian language and Serbian culture and Serbian learning were preserved both in Serbia and Vojvodina. We from Vojvodina are proud of it. But I still don't see the difference between the Dukes contributing to Serbia being what it is today and what the Vojvodinans still want Serbia to be strong, stable, modern and European states, and I don't see this correlation with what's the problem with the money being made in Vojvodina staying in Vojvodina. Where I have to stand up to what Mr. Nikolic said, because he's right, it doesn't have to stay all the money in Vojvodina because it doesn't make sense and it doesn't need all the property to stay in Vojvodina, but most of the money that's being made in Vojvodina or the part that's being created in Vojvodina, I think it should stay. Probably other people in this House think differently, so we'll discuss it, most people will make a decision about it. The claim that they do not exist in the national homogeneous states of autonomy is simply not true, ma'am: Austria, Germany, Italy and I am not counting any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u587	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Batic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u588	Madam Vice-President, I'm sorry, President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but I've lost it since I've tabled an amendment to this new constitutional and legal category of first vice president or deputy government. Clearly, she is contrary to the Constitution. It is clear that the provision of legislation on government in collegiate with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, article 125, is clear to laymen - the government consists of the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers. It is not said by the Prime Minister, the first vice-president – vice-president, other vice-presidents and ministers, but very clearly - vice-presidents. The question is immediately raised - what are the powers, competencies, competencies of the other vice presidents? The law didn't regulate it. What are the vice presidents doing? Or will they be ficus, icaban? One vice president is important, and the rest are for the sake of decoration. There is a right thing called interpreting a legal norm and there are several kinds of interpretations of legal norms, in terms of purpose, language, logical, grammatical, or semantic, teleological, linguistic, etemological, etc. You don't need anything here. Simple logic here is enough. There were governments, I was a member of one of them, where there were several vice presidents, and every day he was the second vice president of the so-called. The vice president, but it's something that's functional, which is life-threatening, but it's never institutionalized. Here, by the Constitution, it is institutionalized. And the logical question immediately arises - what if someone raises the question of the assessment of the constitutionality of Article 2. The government law, and what happens next if the Constitutional Court decides that this law is against the constitution? What will be the consequences, i.e. the repercusion, if this first, main vice president, the vice president, under these powers and powers that are being given to him, makes decisions that will automatically be counter-constitutional? What's the implications of all this going to be? It's clearly a political settlement. It is clear that it is a political trade, and I am surprised that some people from this pay phone, otherwise lawyers by vocality, are completely analphabetical, or even politically tried to say -- are not prohibited by the Constitution, so it is allowed. There's no such thing as public law anywhere. That's what one who goes through law school more often knows, and someone who's done law school, who's a lawyer, lawyer, etc., he can't say that and thus deceives the public. We're clear on the intention, it shouldn't have been institutionalized. It could have even been done, but without institutionalization. One more question - does this vice president or vice president have a golden voice? That's not said anywhere. Let's see. In this way of interpreting it does not say that it is forbidden, it replaces the Prime Minister in everything, what about the golden voice when there is no Prime Minister? Does the vice president have a right to that, too? That's not what anyone was wondering. I'm afraid we'll get far this way. Finally, as DHSS MP, I would like to apologize to the entire public and especially to the taxpayers of Serbia for seven hours a day, only because someone is irresponsible in doing their job. That costs Serbia's taxpayers dearly. If you know each other in the morning, it won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u589	Thank you. Moving to Article 2. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Slobodan Maras, Zoran Krasic, Dr Vladan Batic and together Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. The representative of the proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u590	Madam President, I know that Vlatko Ratkovic did not go to Vujakliu and that he is looking for the meaning of the word casamat, because if he had that basic knowledge, which Mrs Pop-Lazic referred to, he would know, and he knows that Mr Batić, that word almost everywhere has the same meaning in every sense. And you mentioned, not to repeat now that some legal term or any word, in etemological, after all, and in a traditional sense, has meaning, but it doesn't surprise me. I'm advertising the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 93, because the proposing's representative, as someone said yesterday, is not here to explain Vlatko Ratkovic. Bosko Ristic is the one who should come as next. Anyway, we want to have a proposing representative here and know why this is happening to us. Whichever one of them is, they're the same. It is absolutely unacceptable and you know very well that we are always in such a situation, when it comes to the minister, and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whatever the law is, it is taking a break until the arrival of the one who, on behalf of this time 122 MPs, proposes to amend and supplement the law. They have no arguments, neither did they have on the Legislative Committee, and they wanted it quickly, and without the quorum, and without calling the opposition's representatives to vote, they got a lot on their heads fast, because whoever's with us, it usually turns out to be a dead end. So, I'm warning him, and Madam President, that you will respond immediately and invite the gentleman to come to the O.R. because it really doesn't make sense. We waited patiently for so many hours. There was a dilemma about whether at the beginning of the session you said you were opening a debate on this agenda point, how that whole, not the halabuca was created, but our established protests this morning, someone heard, someone didn't. Of course, it's in the stenographic notes. We started after 1800 hours to work on this agenda point. Let's get this special legal expert, now this is very interesting, especially in Article 2 of the proposed law, to explain to us this vice president or vice president, to see what the writer wanted to say and see what he meant. He doesn't have to draw us who it is. A moment ago, Mr. Nikolic said, we are not interested in that in a personal sense at all. As you have agreed, so will you, but based on the Constitution, you cannot, based on the understanding and understanding of what the National Assembly is, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, cannot. Once again, by referring to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I call on the Constitutional Court, because it is well said in a chapter on the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court itself can launch an assessment of the constitutionality of a law and it is obvious that this is an unconstitutional law. I don't know what these people are doing. There are ten of them, among them the famous Dragisa the Blind. Since this dictator Boris Tadic has said more than once on television - I called on Tom Nikolic to give his judges, imagine, as if he were holding them in his pocket, as if he were a dishonest man, far away, like Boris Tadic, so that he had some combinations and that he called from the list some, here, approved Mr Batic. That's right, Mr. Batic, that was your company, that 18-headed angel -- DOS after October 5th. Now you can see well who is who and that there are wicked and honorable people. Let us honorors really do the job right. And answer the one who's not in the O.R. It says -- who formed in Serbia, once and for all, to finish it, a commission that will say -- and who prefers Serbia from there. It was formed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the commission is called RIK and Mr. Odalovic was a member. RIK found that Serbia's single largest party, which wins the highest voter confidence, is the SRS. The Commission found that we love Serbia, our people and all its citizens most. So I'd like to ask no more questions that stupid.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u591	Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u592	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, with this amendment, which we have submitted to Mr Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and I on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group, we want to show that there is no reasonable reason to introduce a new category into the political and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which is the category of Deputy Prime Minister, who, among other things, has been given the authority of the Co-Chair, or the Prime Minister himself. For this kind of attitude, there are legal and political reasons. Legal reasons are contained in Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the government is made up of a president, one or more vice-presidents and ministers, i.e. This member, nor any other member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is ranked between the ministers and the deputy prime minister. Also, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not provide that the president has the authority to appoint his deputy. If we look at the proposal of the motion in the position of the 2nd potential member of the 13a who says - the Deputy Prime Minister helps the Prime Minister to lead and direct the government, to care for the unity of the government's political functioning and to coordinate the work of government members, we see that this position of Article 2 of this law is contrary to the Constitution, because it is contrary to Article 125(2), which says that these are the powers of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Also, this proposal does not show how the deputy president helps the government to define the government's policy. We don't see what happens if the Prime Minister and his future deputy have positions that are incompatible with each other. From all of this, Article 2 follows. The bill does not introduce a technical rule that solves a possible situation when the Prime Minister is unable to perform his duties, but this Article 2. The bill represents the political trade of future coalition partners. This law stipulates that the famous prime minister is the deputy prime minister of the government. Finally, the impression is that the DS is not ready to take full responsibility for the functioning of the future government of the Republic of Serbia and thus creates an alibi for the failure of the future government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u593	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to explain the amendment of MP Zoran Krasic. It is clear from the debate so far that he is a member of 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act unconstitutional, that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not foresee the role of the first Deputy Prime Minister, or Deputy Prime Minister. Furthermore, it is clear that the formulation of Article 2 is unusable and from a purely practical point of view. In fact, the legislator actually wants this member to give some exclusive rights to one of the vice-presidents who don't have other vice presidents. Now one quite logical and practical question is being raised, and what if the government's meetings beside the Prime Minister are not present with the exclusive first vice president, or Deputy Prime Minister. How the government will function, that is, what is the practical purpose of introducing an exclusive deputy prime minister if he does not attend a cabinet session. Then, this member of the bill is also rogobatan from a purely logical, i.e. language aspect. In principle, I asked that question. How can the Deputy Prime Minister help the Prime Minister to care for the unity of the political functioning of the government? How can you help someone to care for something in everyday life? This absolutely doesn't make any sense, no language, no logic. How can the Deputy Prime Minister, the first vice president, help the Prime Minister coordinate the work of government members? In what way? Such a provision absolutely doesn't make any sense. So it is clear that such a bill, if adopted with this member, is absolutely contrary to Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The interpretation of the legal norm always raises one previous question -- what did the one who passed the regulation want, what did the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia want when it adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 125. She wanted the government to be made up of the government's president, vice presidents and ministers, and that all the vice-presidents of the government are equal and equal. Doesn't it seem logical to you that if the Constitution were to say that it should exist for certain political or practical reasons the first Deputy Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister would have written that in the Constitution. How is it that in 2006, when the Constitution was adopted, the National Assembly did not remember that there should be a deputy prime minister, and then two years later we come to an epoch conclusion that such a function is still needed? It is clear that you by means of this form of Article 2. The bill actually pre-capitates the assignment of this function to a future member of the future government. If this wasn't inspired by the desire for the government to function better, that there are no difficulties in the way the government works, but that you're trying to represent yourself as people of your word, you promised one of your future coalition partners that he would be the exclusive first Deputy Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister, and now to prove himself to be people who hold his word, here you are ready to crush the Constitution and Article 125. Serbia's constitution and give one deputy prime minister some exclusive rights that no other vice-president of the government has. One of the MPs has already asked that question. What about that famous so-called. With a golden voice? Look out, from what it says in Article 2. The bill is clear that the Prime Minister can transfer all powers to that deputy of his, except for two, which is to propose a choice or resolution of a member of the government. It now logically follows from this formulation that the first vice-president of the government has all the powers that the Prime Minister has, and even that famous golden voice. So, you are not only discriminating the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by giving one man, the Prime Minister, the right to have two votes, but you are disseminating it. Now the golden voice, next to the Prime Minister, will have that exclusive deputy prime minister. We can keep going in speculation about what might happen. What if the Prime Ministers are not present either, the Prime Minister is not present, nor is the Deputy Prime Minister present, whether the Deputy Prime Minister can have the authority of one of the rest of the Deputy Prime Ministers to perform his duties? And even if he had that famous golden voice, where will the Government of the Republic of Serbia go? Where are the limits to breaking the Constitution? What else does it have to come to one's mind to realize that this can't go on like this, that we can't play with the Constitution of Serbia, that we can't play with the political rights of citizens. The constitution is clear, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are legally and politically equal. No one in the election can have two votes, no one in the performance of his office, and even the post of Prime Minister, can have two votes. Every voice is golden from the point of view of the Constitution. Someone's voice can't be gold, someone's voice can be silver, someone's wood, one man has two voices, five votes, etc. I wish you'd try to find an example of this in parallel legal practice. I'm not saying it's not possible theoretically, but the Constitution has to specify that not all vice-presidents of the government are equal, that some may have more rights than others. Our Constitution doesn't say that. It only writes what is understandable to every man who doesn't even have to be a lawyer. The government is made up of a president, one or more vice-presidents and ministers, and that's all. If the Constitution were to say that there should be a Deputy Prime Minister, I suppose that would be written in the Constitution. It is not possible to accept Mr. Bosko Ristic's explanation that the constitution does not prohibit the Prime Minister from having a deputy prime minister. If we accept such an interpretation when it comes to categories and public rights institutions, then we could really go too far. This principle, that everything that is not prohibited is allowed, only applies when it comes to individual, subjective rights of citizens and, above all, subjective rights of citizens in the area of civil rights, property rights. This citizen can do anything but what is explicitly forbidden by law. Every lawyer knows that. When it comes to public rights institutes, and this is constitutional matter, there is no way that legal regulations can be interpreted so widely and that we can now do anything but what the Constitution forbids. The constitution when it wanted to specify what the government should look like, how the government should function, that's what the Constitution says. We don't have to be legal philosophers now, so we can change the Constitution and put in the Constitution what doesn't stand in the Constitution. So, the constitution is completely clear, the constitution is completely accurate. If such a bill on amendments and additions to the Government Act is adopted, it will be unconstitutional and the Constitutional Court will have an obligation to put it outside the legal force. This is not the first time that the ruling majority is playing tricks on the Constitution, to play with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. We showed yesterday and today that individual presidents of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do not read the Rules of Procedure, that they apply it impertinently, and some even tried to deceive the MPs by putting false information in the report. If we hadn't given them that false information, it would have gone that way. So it is really not the time to play MPs, to play with the Constitution, to play with the laws and to bring down the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I also said in the principle debate, if we want to refer to some comparative examples, there is a position in the UK as First Minister. Since the United Kingdom is a state in its form of monarchy, it is simply and linguistically unacceptable that there is a president. So, formally in the UK, there is no Prime Minister. There is one man whose official office is the first minister. This function was created by chance, not because a very clever MP suggested putting it into some British regulation, but by developing very interesting historical circumstances. I had already said, in the early 18th century, the German dynasty came from the city of Hanover and that first king from that first George dynasty was German, weak and almost in no way speaking English, and someone had to tell him what the government had decided at its session. The one who passed on the information later received the name of the first minister. You've probably heard that there's someone in some country who's the first, that's actually the first minister, but since you obviously don't know constitutional law and constitutional history, you've come up with the first vice president of the government. There's a first minister here, there's going to be a first vice president, that's about what we wouldn't put in the bill. We'll be compatible with the so-called. To European standards, there is something similar in the UK, on the other hand, we will turn out to be big political laffs, we will satisfy our coalition partners, we promised them that one of them would be Deputy Prime Minister, we keep that word, even at the cost of breaking the Constitution, and that in the law on amendments to the Law on Government, we will put in place one provision for which every ordinary citizen, who doesn't even have to be a lawyer, knows in advance that it is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u595	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u596	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have also tabled an amendment to Article 2 of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act. Much has been said these days that this member of the law cannot pass, which is why we have made amendments, which is why it is anti-constitutional. I have to remember only one episode from 2006 when the Constitution was being passed, along with my LDP friends, I was here in front of the Assembly, when you, many of you, were in this assembly, voting for this constitution and brought the Constitution. We were ahead, we were running an anti-referendum campaign, we felt that the way the Constitution was brought in, that what it says in that constitution was very bad, that they were not good solutions for the citizens of Serbia. Of course, at the time we were right, but none of us could have expected who was across the street from this entrance and protested that we would be in a position to defend this constitution from you who brought it. I really can't believe that we've come to such a situation that we have to remind you that for no reason, or for no apparent reason, justifiable, you're changing a member of the Law on Government and that by breaking the Constitution. You're in violation of section 125, and you're introducing the Deputy Prime Minister. I have to remind you of one more thing, we all assume in this room, and I believe the public assumes who will be that deputy, or who will be the first vice president. According to all the speculation that is circulating in the public and in this building itself, it will be the president of the SPS, Mr. Ivica Dacic. We don't have anything against anyone, including him. But don't forget that Mr. Ivica Dacic will also be the police minister. As we live in Serbia, Serbia will surely be the most powerful man in this country. Whether it was someone's wish or someone's fault, we'll see it over time. I think a lot of things have been said why this lawman has to be deleted. We are from the LDP, the few of us, and we have submitted an amendment to that article, and I see that other parliamentary groups have also submitted these amendments to delete that member. I call again on you to have time to vote to think carefully - is it wise to violate the Constitution, I repeat Article 125, where you give authority to one of the vice-presidents of the government as they do not belong to him, as they belong only to the Prime Minister. So, the Deputy Prime Minister needs possibly the Prime Minister, who is absent, to change him in that case, and all of this is well regulated by the current Government Act in Article 13. These changes you've predicted will lead to this situation that we'll have two Prime Ministers. I'm afraid that whoever is at the same time as the Deputy Prime Minister, and the Minister of Police and Deputy Prime Minister, will be a much more powerful man than the Prime Minister himself. You have a little more time, and I'm guessing there's no way you're gonna respect this amendment of ours, but think again. I would take this opportunity to address you, Madam President of the Assembly. With all due respect and the functions you perform and the fact that a few days have passed since you moved to that place, you have the Secretary of Parliament next to you, you have the Vice-Presidents of the Assembly and the Vice-President of the Assembly, please stick to the Rules of Procedure. You've been breaking the Rules of Procedure here for days. You're the person who breaks it the most. So you allow MPs to speak longer than planned time -- means a three-minute replica, a three-minute announcement by the Rules of Procedure, which must be apostrophyd by a member of the Rules of Procedure. You don't have that practice at all. First of all, because of your authority and the authority of the function you perform, I invite you to actually make calculations about it, because what's going on here, I think that citizens who are looking at it are aware of it, it just doesn't look like the Assembly. Especially as my colleague Andric mentioned an hour ago - what happened today, that opposition MPs rightly advertised the Rules of Procedure and said that what happened on the Legislative Committee was a disgrace to this assembly. You came here, we started, or we continued working at 1800 hours, and I don't know how many minutes and not a single word about what happened -- who's guilty and why he's guilty. I think you should change that practice, I don't know, but I'd like to ask you that if you can warn which ones are coming from the front lines. If you haven't heard, I'll tell you it's happening. So, please make sure that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure are not broken. You are the most responsible for this, and I wish you a lot of success in your work, but you really must follow the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u597	Thank you. Mr. Pai Momchilov picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, I have come to support the amendment of my colleague Slobodan Maras. You know what it says, he's been read and I don't have to deal with it much longer. It is only interesting to look back on a few facts, which are once again well known to all of us, but it is important to make it quite clear to the citizens of Serbia. You see, it's 8:19 p.m., we're discussing important amendments to the law, this debate is scheduled for 12:00 p.m., the session started at six o'clock, and now the question is, why is that? Surely colleagues from the post will say that the MPs from the opposition are guilty, we think vice versa, that there have been violations of the Rules of Procedure. Now I hear from all the predecessors -- that they put it on the soul and the president of our Parliament. I don't think we should blame our president much either, because he's been stalking the work, the secretary is also, however, new people are on a new job, and they should be able to fix it in time, right, their work, if we consider it not quite satisfactory. There's one thing I want to say. I do not agree with the position our esteemed speaker, my colleague Đukic, expressed today when she refused to arbitration between 12 opposition MPs and 13 MPs. Unfortunately, Madam President, you will have to arbitration. Because you see, in Article 27, the first one to describe your authority is well said to be concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and right after that, it is said that she is taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Namely, what does "coordinate" mean? When you need something to coordinate - when it's inconsistencies. That is, when you have ambivalent situations and opposing MPs, you are obliged to coordinate that order and not to run away from that responsibility, so come in freely and make full use of your right to the Rules of Procedure. But to return to this amendment itself, not to preach much. Why are these laws being amended like this? A man, a reasonable and citizen of Serbia, would say - well, surely do more effective work by the government. However, unfortunately, it is this very Article 2 that we cannot see that there is such a situation. Namely, what's this about? My predecessors have already said. First of all, the problem here is that we don't have an authorised promoter, Mr. Ristic, who is in a really unprofessional way, and he's a lawyer, trying to explain to us the need for these changes. He's not here today. What does that mean? That means that the position doesn't care at all about facing opinions, the position has no intention of entering a dialogue with the opposition, it ignores the opposition. What does that ignore mean, superiority, that she's too smart, that she knows everything apriorly, and that there's no need to answer or, exactly the opposite, that she has nothing to say? Serbian citizens will best assess from these discussions who are right and who are wrong. We get the impression, from the opposition, and I see all the colleagues who spoke earlier -- that this is about a political trade initiated by DS and, we can say freely, decorated in the image of its president, Boris Tadic. This man is absolutely an authoritarian figure, with a maximum -- a state that is me -- where he represents a state of Serbia without consulting with the Prime Minister and parliament. He was free to put the second maximum on the market -- the party is me -- he determines, so he has a discretionary right to determine the prime minister. So, if that's the case, someone would say -- here's the new Louis of HIV political scene, so history knows. However, to be true, I must remind you that this gentleman does not do what he does because he only feels like Louis HIV, but unfortunately he is a puppet who performs the orders of Mr. Manter and other tycoons that I would not now list here. You have enough evidence in the media and the press, both yellow and serious. Of course, we oppose the violation of the Constitution, and we all repeat and read the 125th member of the Constitution which clearly determines - who can make one government. Here, again, for the hundredth time, I will read here to the citizens of Serbia -- that the government is made up of the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers. So that's a perfectly clear provision. What's an explanation and it doesn't stand, and that's why we're asking for this member to be deleted, look at the reasons that are illogical. It's called "The Reasons for Law Making." He says this: "Determined solutions from the current Government Act need to be specified, and these solutions to the position of Deputy Prime Minister... "Does anyone know what it means to specify? So if something isn't clear enough, it's already nominated, then you can explain it in additional words. No, this is where innovation is being introduced, this is about a brand-new member of the government called First Deputy Prime Minister - Deputy Prime Minister. When it comes to urgency, then you have even more absurd claims and indifference, where it is said: "The passing of this law by emergency procedure is of particular importance for the functioning of the Republic of Serbia and its institutions... "It is not the Republic of Serbia with 19 parties, so if they cannot agree or cannot comply with their work, then they have to resort to additional ones. That absolutely doesn't stand. What's interesting, too, if you look on the formal side of how this article's written itself, this is a little thing, but also the small things are important. Position 2 states: "The first Deputy Prime Minister - Deputy Prime Minister assists the Prime Minister in leading and directing the government". What kind of leadership and guidance are we talking about? The constitutionalist is very precise. The man who wrote this has legal knowledge and education, knows something that is also a Serbian literary language, and then he says this way: "He directs the work of the government". So he's not directing the government. What does it mean to point? It can be interpreted in different ways, but clearly and precisely it is written in the Constitution as this sign should stand here. But that's already the result of the clumsyness, the speed, I don't believe a completely legal analfebitism of someone who wrote something like this. If you're already introducing all of this, we see two functions of this deputy of yours or, as you call it, the first vice president of the government. By logic, if you introduce between four or five people to be first, then the rest of them have to be lower rank and then they're second, then that's what they should be called and ranked. I can't be a fish and a girl. If I'm the first Deputy Prime Minister, I can't go to that second category of other vice presidents. That's quite clear. Then you should have made that clear. The second function of this is to help the Prime Minister. He replaces it when he's away, and when he's present, he helps. Now the question is -- if the Constitution makes it clear that the president is leading and directing the work, he's taking care of a uniform political action, so if you have a leader, let me ask you-- did you see an army with two leaders? Have you seen the buffalo director? This is where we're offered the buffalo Prime Minister? I don't think it can survive without logically defending itself. Why does the living present president give one elected, and not the other vice presidents, help? What are the three of them gonna get away with, and this one's gonna help? Why is this person helping this man? If you want to level something, one person can do it far better than two who can always have two opinions. Someone here was talking about the Rasmonic truth. Remember that, too, and you'll understand that again. I wonder if there may be any doubt that the president himself in the future imaginary government in the head of Boris Tadic, Manter and the tycoon may be incompetent, so he needs to be added by the guardian and the person who will support him? Maybe it's the person who's gonna clone, so this guy's gonna stick to it. So, you add one crutches, one prunes, and why -- it's not clear. That should have been explained and explained to us. That Mr. Ristic was supposed to explain to us why it would be necessary to help this man. The question is-- someone doesn't compensate for someone lightly made a promise to someone like this? That's exactly what it looks like to me. Someone has made it easy for someone to promise that, for example, they will be prime minister, so since it was an overtaste, a lie for the people, for the duck media, we are now going back, we are fixing the situation with a brilliant solution, which has nothing to do with either the brain or the political logic, and certainly not with the interests of the Serbian people. If, gentlemen of the Democrats, authorized legislators, you won't come with us, you won't tell us how we're wrong, and you're Europeans, you're for a transparent debate and discussion, what's left for us? There's no time, I've got 15 minutes, and you're not running the Assembly, dear colleague. [[Dropping out of the O.R.: Time.]] Read the Rules of Procedure. I've responded to Mr. Marash's amendment. Looks like your time has come into some critical situation. Maybe it's fatigue, but that's not my fault, so talk to someone else if you're tired in these late evening hours, if you're all tired of this torture all day. It's a problem that I can understand and respect, but leave it at your place when we choose you as president, vice president and with great respect and respect I will adopt every suggestion of yours, of course, if it's based on sound logic, intelligence and the Rules of Procedure. Now, in the 15th minute, I'll be done. I don't like to overstep. It happens to me, of course, like everyone else, to step over some time, and allow me to be interrupted by the chairman. What do we have left? The best solution is to get rid of this and wipe out this disgrace and shame, or to tell us in which pro-European government there is such a thing, since you are Europeans, to convince us by the power of European political practice's arguments. The other thing is, let's change the Constitution, because one and the other doesn't work together, except in the unencipile political coalitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u599	National MP Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 2nd amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Proposer's representative did not accept the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Aligrudić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u600	What is the majority doing on the Justice and Administration Committee? How can he refuse a amendment like this? They suggested he refuse. I said the other day, when we were in principle discussing this law, there were three inalienable characteristics of this bill: that it was short, stupid and unconstitutional. Article 2 of this law shows in the best way that the epithet of "stupid" is euphemism for him. I'll remind you, as my predecessors used to say, given Article 2. Proposal for a law to be laid down in Article 125. The constitution is what the government consists of: the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers, where, by one broader interpretation, I do not like broader interpretations, extensive interpretations of imperial regulations, especially in the field of public law, they are very strange, but what you will, political practice is a miracle, the Deputy Prime Minister may also be a minister. In this situation where we are today, we have a bill that goes one step further and that step across the border that is inadmissible under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He wants to say this, that one of those vice presidents can be taller and better and different from the other vice presidents, because first of all, he's the first, as he stands there, and then he's still standing - Deputy Prime Minister. He's either the first vice president or he's the Deputy Prime Minister. What it says -- the first vice president, I guess, should serve as an alibi for the second term used -- Deputy Prime Minister, so Vlasi doesn't get it, and to keep it within the framework of the term Deputy Prime Minister. What's illogical about it and what's so damn stupid about it? Now I'm going to explain it very simply to you, and even to those who are not lawyers, so they can understand it well. So, back to square one. According to the Constitution of this state, the government has a prime minister, i.e. Prime Minister and one or more vice presidents. This can be regulated by law, as proposed here, and can be regulated by the government's internal act. The idea of the vice presidents is not only to be called that, but to be one or more, so that in a situation where the Prime Minister is absent or prevented from performing his duties, he can be replaced in his dealings, whether he is the Deputy Prime Minister, whether he has his own minister's portfolio or not. So, the idea is that in the case of sickness, prevention, the absence of a Prime Minister has someone, for example, to run a cabinet session, to do those tasks that relate to direction and coordination of the government's work, to keep the government's political unity and government functions in the moments of absence or prevention of the Prime Minister. That's the whole idea. In the current Government Act, that's exactly what it said. According to the law, the current Government Act, the Prime Minister could at any time have been one, until now it was one vice president, until now it was one vice president, and this is a special story, which is why this law introduces at least two vice presidents, and I find it unnecessary to be in the general part of the legal matter, but come on, now on the side. So he could have replaced one of the vice presidents and replaced him. That's enough and too much, whatever you want. This bill says this - the Prime Minister determines one Deputy Prime Minister for the First Vice-President, or Vice-President, we have already said that, which replaces him during his absence or prevention with all the powers of the Prime Minister, except for the authority to propose elections and dismiss members of the government. What's he saying? First, as soon as the first vice president of the government, it implies the need for another. It's impossible to write in law the first vice president of the government without having a minimum of one more. It's likely to be arranged by the government's internal act. Then why is this act that we adopt here not the number of vice presidents? Why? As long as this is what it's been going on. So we have a minimum of another vice president. Now, look at this. What's this other vice president doing? What is the point of having another vice president and calling him vice president, when he will never be able to replace himself in any way, says to me Hope Kolundji, throws, says poor. It's nice that you're joking, and even scarier that you don't understand what I'm talking about. I'm very sorry. It is not said of the other vice-president of the government that I speak poorly of, but I explain to you that the poor you who have come into the situation to bring and propose to us a bill that is short, stupid and unconstitutional, to satisfy the vanity of one of your coalition partners who likes to stand out in this way and to be helped by the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and you're teasing me by throwing me for another vice-president -- poor. Now I'm going to explain to you what this misery of the second vice president of the government is all about. The poverty of the second vice-president consists precisely of bearing the name of the government's vice-president and in no other way differing until the end of his term from a member of the government. Isn't that stupid? That's stupid. All the time I've been telling you it's stupid and you don't trust me. Any normal can understand that it's stupid. You have two vice-presidents of the government, one you call the first vice-president of the government, and the other one I guess the other one is, you can have five, if you want. These other government vice-presidents mean nothing, because nothing in their operation singles out the position of other ministers or members of the government except that they are called. Isn't that stupid in itself? Of course it's stupid. Is that unconstitutional? Of course it's against the constitution, because you can't have the same category of person that the Constitution simply calls vice presidents of the government, and by law, contrary to the imperial norm of the Constitution, which is an imperial norm, you can't interpret more widely, you call one of them a deputy and you give him all the powers that a deputy can have according to the position of one of these members, and the other you absolutely exclude from those obligations. It says very clearly here -- the Prime Minister determines one vice president for the first vice president, or vice president, who replaces him, etc. What's the other one doing? Can the Prime Minister ever order any of the other vice presidents he has appointed, or by any act of government, ever, to order him to do anything in his name under this law? He can't. This norm is explicit. This is also a standard of public-legal character that is imperative in its content. Here's what you wrote, so now tell me if it's stupid or not. You have, say, that first vice-president of the government, so you have four other vice-presidents of the government, for example. This first vice-president of the government you call a deputy may be the one who automatically replaces the Prime Minister, in which he is not required, according to this law, not a single act internally, nor an act by the Prime Minister to replace him. Who assesses the absence and prevention of the Prime Minister. That first vice president? Will he react and assume all his powers if the Prime Minister goes to the bathroom? What's that moment? What is this situation in which this first vice-president of the government will assess when he enters office? Is there any need for the Prime Minister to inform him about this? There isn't. How did you write here? There's no need. What are the other government vice presidents doing? Simulate the vice presidentship? What are they doing there? What do they do? Can the Prime Minister ever give any of the other vice presidents authority? He can't, because this norm is imperative and he says, he can only do this one and automatically empower him by this law, i.e. We're empowering him as the National Assembly, and you suggested that, and that the Prime Minister has no business anymore. On the other hand, this introduces bi-authority and extreme arbitration in the course of action. That's what you wrote, and that's what's against it. He can't. It just doesn't work. If you want to give someone the political meaning of your partner, you've had thousands of other ways to give them political significance. You didn't have to step on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and irritate the MPs of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who are not in the psychos of the formation of the government that you entered, where you are fortunately, perhaps it would be better if some of us were, not to dispute. We're not and there's no reason for you to chicanate us with these motions of provisions that are stupid and unconstitutional. I proved nonsense. Let's ask one more question, and let's see where we stand. It's said like this again, and I repeat it, Prime Minister, I now quote this, and you have to say it all to me: "The Prime Minister defines one deputy prime minister for the first vice president, i.e. Deputy Prime Minister, who replaces him during the absence or prevention of all powers of the Prime Minister, except for the authority to propose elections or discharge of a member of the government." Later in the same law, in Article 3, which we are about to talk about, you say, "If the government has an even number of members, the government's decision is made if at least half of all government members vote for it on the condition that the Prime Minister voted for a decision." It's that golden voice, you know what we were talking about. Does it mean that the position of Article 1 of Article 13a that you propose to Article 2 means that the deputy prime minister also has a golden voice? That's what it According to what you wrote, it absolutely means. If we are going to translate everything we read into a political reality that will take place in the next day, it means that Mirko Marjanović cannot, pardon Mirko Cvetkovic, pass on to him, so it also comes to him, cannot pass on his powers by any act within the government to anyone, because by law they have been passed on to Mr. Ivica Dacic. That means it. This means that if Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic is not under the circumstances at the cabinet session but is prevented, absent, then Mr. Ivica Dacic will have so-called. A golden vote in the decision-making process if the number of votes on the side by or against, when voted by ministers on it, is equal. That means it. Maybe you didn't want to, but you wrote that. I read you what you wrote and read to you the consequences of what was written. That's what you'll have in your practice. My proposal would be your next. You don't have to persist in the nonsense of vanity because it makes stupidity a square, but it would be much smarter to adopt amendments from my colleagues who have asked for these members of the law to be deleted, or if it's too difficult for you, because my amendment does not consist in deleting this article, but I am changing it by amendment and bringing it down to the third position of Article 13 of the present, accepting that I should remove it from the former position of Article 13, Article 13, to the new Article 13, I don't know why, so simply so be it, so it won't be to delete it, so let it be easier for you. At least adopt this amendment, if you do not want to adopt amendments to delete the article, get rid of this torment and these mortgages, get rid of the need to fear the constitutional court's decision on this issue, although I am even afraid you do not have that fear, as Mr. President of the State Boris Tadic has provided an absolute majority of the Constitutional Court. But I hope, however, that these people who work in the Constitutional Court, who are doing the work of the Constitutional Court's judgeship, are somehow insecure in their actions and will correctly assess the constitutionality of the rules in this country. Well, if that's the case, then you'd have to have at least a little fear of it. It can't all be at the level of political utilitarianity, it's not possible, it has to be something at the level of political decency, not to mention at the level of legality and constitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u601	Thank you. Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u602	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Mr Ristic is not here, who tried to explain these amendments to the Government Act to us before the legislator. I called about Mr. Aligrudic's amendment. I have to say, I understand his desire to fix this member of the law, but I think the much better amendment was, I read it, which we have submitted to a few of us, which is to delete Article 2 of this law. What could happen in a situation where, let's just hypothetically imagine, someone steps out of a future ruling coalition and there's no more 129 or 128 as much as you have right now, but let's say you have 122. And there's a new possibility, let's say, I don't want to call anyone now, but let's say New Serbia wants to join the government and you make a deal with them? It is perfectly logical that they will demand that they also have the first vice president, or Deputy Prime Minister. You are now introducing into practice something that will certainly be abused in the future, just like with Article 3 of this Law, you are introducing a golden voice, you are introducing the first vice president, and you are merely opening up the possibility of complete abuse. Once again, you are violating the Constitution, introducing a practice of breaking the Constitution, and I fear that everything you do will not end well, so really do not persist in these amendments to the Government Act, withdraw your proposal or accept amendments to delete these members, and I think you will do the best possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u603	Thank you. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u604	The replica to Mr. Marash. Mr. Maras, I hope you read my amendment, or you read it, and you misunderstood it, you would realize that it comes down to going back to the old one, so it comes down to returning the text to what we now have in the Government Act, just relocated Article 13, Article 13, point 13 to a new Article 13a. I did it simply because of a parliamentary game, realizing that a cleaner and better amendment to delete a member, I said at the very beginning, is ideal. If such an amendment is not accepted, this amendment can be accepted, with the exact same effect, and that means there is no proposed Article 2 as proposed in this law, it is not. We're going back to a solution that exists in the applicable law, that's the only one that's acceptable and normal. That's the meaning of this amendment. I said this because of the public, so the public might not think that I've made some kind of compromise in this part, no compromise has been made. The legal consequence of your amendment and my amendment is identical, so there's no difference. There's no such thing as this nonsense, this unconstitutional thing, and this crazy thing that's written in Article 2. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u605	The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic Milica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u606	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting for Mr Aligrudic's amendment and I don't think there is any need to legally explain this amendment because he has explained it very well and sufficiently. What I really wanted to explain is, simply to the public, because we're not all lawyers, it's that this amendment legislator is actually trying to secure itself from a few things. One of these things is the fear of what happens if the coalition breaks down because of mistrust, which is the basic story of the government's cohesion. However, I must tell them one thing. Trade, especially not political trade, is not governed by the Government Act. The government law can't even settle the fear they show, and that fear is, of course, tied to the revote in the government, they're experienced in it, they've also voted the past government of Vojislav Kostunica, so they know it's a dangerous game and they want to make sure. So the Law on Government does not regulate trade, political trade, fear, or other things. Coalitions built on the basis of non-discipline, mistrust, complete absence of all possible qualities and human virtues cannot be corrected by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u607	Thank you. Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u608	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would also like to clarify, I understand very well what Mr Aligrudic wrote, I have read his amendment, but I am still standing by that Article 2 should have been deleted. However, I wanted to ask you one more question. Some things really don't make sense to me now. For example, let's imagine another two situations. The first situation, since you say in your Article 13a, the Prime Minister determines one Deputy Prime Minister for the First Vice-President of the Government, the Deputy Prime Minister who replaces him during the absence or prevention of all powers of the Prime Minister, except for the authority to propose elections or discharge of members of the Government. "The first Deputy Prime Minister – Deputy Prime Minister assists the Prime Minister in leading and directing the government, caring for the unity of the government's political functioning and coordinating the work of government members. In all other matters, in the position of the first Deputy Prime Minister - Deputy Prime Minister, the provisions of this law relating to the Deputy Prime Minister shall be applied accordingly. ''So, the first position of this member of yours 13a says 'with all the powers of the Prime Minister'. How about this first Deputy Prime Minister, or Deputy Prime Minister, resign? Since you have these changes, as I have said, repeatedly violate the Constitution, but you give authority to the first vice president exactly the same as the Prime Minister has, and what if the Deputy Prime Minister resigns, does the government fall? You're equating the first vice president with the Prime Minister. I'm asking you to think about these things because these things are, like, one against the constitution, two against common sense. Item 2: First Deputy Prime Minister – Deputy Prime Minister assists the Prime Minister in leading and directing the government, taking care of unity. So, in fact, you've rewritten Article 125's Article 2. The Constitution. Does that mean you're giving custody to the Prime Minister? Who's gonna be the first of them? These are some questions that you have to answer in this very little time we have left to discuss. What happens if, for example, one of your many parties in your coalition leaves the coalition, you no longer have 126, falls to the government and becomes a technical government, as is the case today, that the technical government of Vojislav Kostunica works? Who's the prime minister then? Are we going to have two governments then? Will the first vice president also serve as Prime Minister? Since Mr. Bosko Ristic is not here, there is Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, who I know knows very well about this matter, please give us some explanations on some of these questions. I'm really interested in whether the government falls if the first vice president resigns after you evened him out with the prime minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u609	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u610	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 and Article 98. Mr. Marash, I know you read that. I don't deny you the right to prefer your amendment. I even told you very clearly that I prefer your amendment. I have even publicly admitted here that I have submitted my amendment because of this, for the sake of the parliamentary game and parliamentary utility, in case your amendment does not pass. Because it's logical to first try to vote for your amendment to delete Article 2, so if, by any chance, it doesn't work, there might be some hope left to convince the ruling coalition, maybe this one, with the exact same legal consequence, and that means there's no such nonsense in Article 2 of the proposed law. It's an idea to go back to what it says in the current Government Act. Otherwise, it is quite clear that we do not argue with the other, it is quite clear that this is how the government makes the Prime Minister choose a permanent deputy. However, he can change it, and I forgot to say it earlier, but he has to determine a permanent Deputy Government and every time he has to do it, he has to bring back the same act, with this complexity and this complex formulation. It's a creepy thing. This could happen if the Deputy Prime Minister is at the same time a police minister, which is likely to happen between the absent Prime Minister, i.e. Deputy Prime Minister, who exercises the authority of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Police, you have no tampon zone. Practically, the one chairing the government is also the minister of police. I haven't even heard that before. There's no tony anywhere. Only in this country can it be based on this regulation. That's what this regulation allows us to see. In which you will have a relatively weak personality and figure at the post of Prime Minister. He may not be weak in his field of expertise, he may be a really good expert, I don't want to deny Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, but as a political figure, with political weight, I guess around whom the next day statesmen should be abducted, to make a state visit to Serbia, etc., that's funny. Another, who wants to attach himself to the importance, will be his deputy and that permanent deputy, with no idea of any rotation, which will have a different political significance in the eyes of those who are a major political party, with the majority in the ruling coalition, which will actually make such a political consequence in Serbia that the only prominent and ruling figure in Serbia will now be Boris Tadic. That's what all this is about, and that's what this law and the way this government is composed of. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u611	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u612	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understood fellow Milos Aligrudic that he wanted, not as someone said, to improve the law, but to bring it into line with the Constitution and to clear and precise, through the only possible legal norm, to say that it should look hypothetically when the Government of the Republic of Serbia, under the Constitution, has one or more vice-presidents. Let's imagine that the government of the Republic of Serbia has several, three or four vice presidents. That mafia government, Djindjic, after 5 October, had six vice-presidents, one of the vice-presidents was Aleksandar Pradic of the DSS, who seems to me to be correcting me from the DSS if I am wrong, already in early 2002, by realizing who he was dealing with, and also by the fact that the murder of Momir Gavrilovic, which has not been enlightened today. In fact, the perpetrators, i.e. the employers were absolutely clear right after that murder, because the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, delivered it to the authorities, I must remind those of you who forgot about it, then Minister of the Interior Dusan Mihajlovic, all the necessary knowledge, because a public reward was called. There is Mr Milic, who was then his deputy and he knows very well that, to this day, this public invitation was not paid to the SRS. But, on that path, what our people would say -- we'll push more, there's time. I see, Mr. Milivojevic, that you are impatient, is approaching 22 hours and a video of the trial from the Hague case, which you monitor regularly every evening, and we don't want, especially me Serbian radicals, to disrupt that watch. We have two more amendments, we'll talk about it. I know that every day with attention, and admire the legal and political knowledge of Professor Vojislav Seselj, follow the trial. I suggest you do it tonight. I wanted to say here that Mr Aligrudic actually wanted to make it clear that, if it were one of the vice presidents, this was not a permanent category. The government is elected and Mirko Cvetkovic comes here, he is the one who will be, if that happens and if you survive until then. This minority group has already rebelled, because it is clear that your intentions are not sincere to protect their minority rights, as we have spoken, and we know, because we have representatives of almost all national minorities, where only the SRS, respecting the Constitution, which our people say -- keeps them as little water on their hands, that everyone else abuses them from choice to election, when the presidential elections, when they are one parliamentary, local, province, etc., and time will show that only our intentions are sincere in that sense. But he wanted this amendment, and I fully support him in saying that he, one of the vice presidents, is someone, an imaginary person, only in a situation where the Prime Minister is unable to carry out his constitution and the law of the prescribed obligation, not that he permanently determines one, so to say - he is now elected Cvetkovic until the end of his term. No, but to put it back into constitutional frameworks and the business provisions and the former government, I say when she had six vice presidents, after five, because Justice left the government, and I remember very well, we who were then MPs, that literally every day of the week then, the Deputy Prime Minister had his day of duty. If we had, say, the law on the agenda or the amendment, so we wait for the government's opinion on the amendments that we have submitted, on some of those disastrous laws from that DOS period, which is now continuing, then the laws that have abolished workers' rights, and peasants, and pensioners, etc., if that is, say, Tuesday, we know that everything will be signed by Zarko Korac. So, he was on call that day. And so on. In that sense, it is only possible to comply with the Constitution and with the positive norms, such a change in this article, amendments and additions to the Government Act, because it is otherwise impossible. You're trying to create an illusion, and it opened on our national television, on RTS, another topic that Dr. Pai Momchilov was talking about. In fact, here's a very simple thing. If you're going to have, against the constitution, of course, because one day this will have to fall in the Constitutional Court. And we don't have a Constitutional Court, no matter how much you think it's established by the election of these ten, a small door is being introduced to the presidential system in the state of Serbia. The fans of this yellow company, as well as Mr. Antonic, who was in some way honest, and realistic, and objective, and who warned about who was following that show, that, among other things, it was one thing that coincided with our Constitution. Then, gentlemen, you should have created such a majority and such climate in Serbia that we have a presidential system, not the Prime Minister, but the president of the state in the image of Boris Tadic, who is now a political usurper. And while you, Mr. Ratkovic, have returned to the O.R., said that the case for you and as a lawyer and as chairman of the board is some unknown word, you said that because of this you reject the amendment proposed by Mrs. Pop-Lazic, you must know that the citizens of Serbia are at this moment, and all of us who oppose this way of passing laws, which are unconstitutional, are in one of your global cadets. I'm sorry, please, but how else is it that we who want to protect both justice and justice, and in such a way, by usurping the authorities, you enforce all these laws? These foreign ministers, and the president, and that vice president and vice president in the ministerial chair, have not yet sat down, your intentions are clear. In which way you will rule, it will not be good, but the biggest danger, again, is that you have written in almost all the daily newspapers, in one way or another, our columnists, the various journalists, those who supported you after that five-octobaric coup, which some would say revolution, that this is the greatest danger today in Serbia, which is one man who is not sitting in Germany, but at Andric's wedding, and not the Prime Minister, is not Mirko Cvetkovic and does not look like Tadic and Cvetkovic at all, who, by usurping his presidential functions, and has very clear powers as president of the state, came to this. You know very well that we are Serbian radicals, but because of our national interest, because of the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, we have sought first and foremost Tomislav Nikolic to achieve the widest possible consensus by adopting the Constitution. We have even advocated that we have the choice of president from the order of MPs, and this is our idea forever, since the establishment of the SRS, however, it was obvious that it could not have been passed, it remained the direct choice of the president of the state, but this is the way of usurping that function and this humiliation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of course, is some silent introduction in the dictatorship in the right sense of words. It may seem to you that these expressions of mine are too strong or that they are not exactly in line with this current situation, but time will show that they are. I'm waiting and I know where the first voices will come from, that they are already coming, when we mention both wives and aunts, etc., from the wife of one of your coalition partners, because she knows very well who she's stuck with right now. She gave one bank, now she'd have five to get out of that car, but in any case, you'll see from what you hear from that lady, who won't keep quiet in front of the fact that you've so humiliated her client and her husband, and that you're already doing whatever you want. If you say it's a non-serious matter, guess who it's about, you all know very well. In any case, the entire Serbian public will continue to pay attention to this. Don't be surprised how many special shows and all that will be on our media, and how many inscriptions and in the periodic press that one man today, of course, says nicely to Dr Momcilo, who is a puppet of Western forces, Boris Tadic, wants to rule and govern Serbia as a real dictator. The government of the Republic of Serbia, whatever this special vice president means to you, will exclusively and strictly respect his mandates, or DS orders. Everyone else, however, your democratic will, the mathematical majority, what different it would be... Only once in a series of nonsense, Boris Tadic said, was created in Belgrade by a mathematical majority. There it was created both mathematically and politically, and what is good for the citizens of Belgrade, to be such an honorable man and to be Alexander Vukic, with the will of the Belgrade mayor's councillor. But here it is created not inconclusive, but a dangerous majority to introduce Serbia into something that you allegedly fought against, and in fact it turns out that you are no Democrats, that you are usurperers, and that this is a state of insanity and chaos unacceptable. I'm really surprised that none of you came forward and didn't think, and even to say, there's this, uh, pretender at the KIM Ministry, Mr. Bogdanovic, not in the O.R., you know that I don't like to talk about people who aren't present, unless he's bound, like this Bosko Ristic, to be here and not in the O.R. None of you have answered, of you from the DS, you're very much a custodian, and in fact you can see how many Serb hypocrites with KIM, so you can say that you support them and what they're doing, how they did, and I really congratulate them on that, and Mr. Nicic, because on Vidovdan, a congregation of the Kosovo-Methochian community was founded. That's what you need to think about, but while we're at it, you don't know what the word is, even with those who stole Serbian, and that's the case, prison, whatever you want to say, I wouldn't be surprised if you were an abstracting nation. You have her from opportunity to opportunity and change. In historical terms, the nation means nothing to you, but you are playing with it, just to retain power and to continue corruption, robbery and kidnapping in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u613	Mr. Marash has words, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just name a member in a three-minute time period.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u614	Ma'am, I assume you've read the Rules of Procedure right now, because I'm going to quote two members of this Rules of Procedure not to count it on me at the time. Articles 27 and 104. Article 27 says -- the president of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for by the Constitution, chairing meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will not read any further. Article 104 MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. National MPs are obliged to address one another with respect, not to use offensive expressions, nor to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. I can understand Miss Natasa Jovanovic, or I can accept that she has different political views and that she can say earlier that the government of the late Prime Minister Djindjic was a mafia. But I cannot understand you, Madam President, who remained silent about it, did not warn Mrs Natasa Jovanovic not to use such expressions. Also, I cannot understand that the head of the DS parliamentary group leaves the O.R. after eight or nine minutes of Ms. Jovanovic's speech, not responding to such a thing. I cannot understand that Madam Vice-President Gordana Comic, whom I had just missed by mistake to point out, knows perfectly well that she is doing her job and we saw it the other day when she chaired, too, that she does not draw your attention to you to react to such a moment when Miss Jovanovic, presenting her thoughts, says Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's government was a mobist. Also, Ms. Jovanovic made another untruth, probably a failure, that at the time of the murder of DB Gavrilovic's employee, the assistant police minister was Mr. Nenad Milic, he was not the police minister's assistant at the time, he was later. But also, Mrs. Dejanovic, once again I ask you to make sure that you stick to this Rules of Procedure. Article 27 says you care about applying the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You don't do that all day. A moment ago, when I was coming here, you told me to quote a member of the Rules of Procedure, so you're making progress. You also told me that I have three minutes and that's commendable, but please make sure that the offensive expressions here are not mentioned, and especially not of those who have passed away or more accurately killed in their workplace.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u615	Replica, Miss Jovanovic. I'm sorry, according to the Rules of Procedure, first Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u616	Honored Madam President, Honored Presidency, Article 27, Article 225 and 226. So all the time we've been here discussing one law, government law. The authorised representative of the promoter in the O.R. is not present. A lot of questions have been asked here, there's no answer. So, I'd like you to call an authorised representative of the promoter, so we don't get carried away here. We will report to the Rules of Procedure until that moment until the mandated representative of the motionor appears here. The second thing is, my colleagues' exposure put serious grudges on this bill. It is clear from these objections that one man in Serbia does not care at all about having a strong government, but that he has a completely weak government. So, this man's name is the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic. What's this all about? The laws are passed, among other things, to regulate the will of an individual, and when it is the will of an individual to make such a tragic government, against the constitution, it is clear that it is one will. That's why this government law is bad, and it's best to go back to that old law-making thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u617	Replica, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u618	I really wouldn't, Madam President, be wasting valuable time. We still have amendments to the remaining members of the law. I am interested, as well as all citizens of Serbia, that at 22.00 hours after the People's Assembly's session begins today's trial with the party president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj. I don't understand why Mr. Marash wants to be more Catholic than the Pope, as you say. Mr. Marash, since you've been talking all along, and you just said that I'm saying something here. You think, that's how I go about it, so I'm saying something, thinking, talking unfoundedly, or someone doing it from the members of the SRS. I have no intention of teaching you something you haven't learned in a long time, and you're already a second envoy in the National Assembly. With great pleasure, but of course in the absence of the author, I will present you with a book that has 1,100 pages, which speaks of what I was just talking about and pay attention. I said I wasn't sure, I know that Mr Milic was in the Serbian government at the time, later he went as deputy minister, and don't correct, especially any of the Serbian radicals. Let's go back to what was happening in the multi-party between the two world wars, there's nothing to look for, let alone in this restored multi-party from the 1990s to today. We know almost every month when anything was, at any time, whenever any government was and whenever any MPs were sitting here in the assembly. I can do so much and think, and otherwise I give it to my friends and to all those who ask me for the books of Professor. A shekel. I'll be happy to give you one of those books, at least learn something.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u619	Mr. Marash by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u620	Ms. Jovanovic, you have proved now that you are merely expressing your opinion or someone else's opinion that you highly appreciate. You haven't said for a moment that you have any argument, that you have any fact. So what you were talking about is that some government is a mobster, you've made one big insult to the best government that existed in this country 100 years ago and change years ago, that is, for the first reform government. So, the fact that you want to give me one of the hundreds of books of your president, that's great. I don't know which one you mean, do you mean that "whore del Ponte and the whore of Kostunica" or don't know which one? So, I'd ask you to accept one thing: I didn't say a word about you, I didn't speak to you, I spoke to Mrs Dejanovic first. I said that you were giving an opinion because you couldn't, based on one fact or any evidence, or any court case to bring such a judgment as you brought. That's why I said you made an insult, or that you said something terrible to me, and that's why I reacted. The fact that you, to me, can accept it, threaten it, so that I can't do either one of you do anything to learn, or to speak or correct you, you've made a big mistake. Having different policies and different political beliefs is one thing. But you can't tell me that I can't talk to you after you've spoken to me, that's what I want to say to you. Of course, every time after me or anyone from the LDP, you can give a different opinion. Please, really, don't use those expressions that you used, which are inappropriate anymore. That was the only thing I said, and first of all I spoke to the President of the Assembly, Mrs. Dejanovic, who did not respond to such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u621	First of all, Mr. Aligrudic, you'll have the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u622	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudich, you've always been a gentleman, thank you this time. Mr. Maras, the difference between us and you, us Serbian radicals and you from that party of yours and those sitting in this now political option, above all those who call themselves Democrats, is what is the most important court of history for us. Let the court of history show who was right and who was wrong. I'm proud that you, mentioning the influence of the president of our party on me, and on the general public, and on all the members of the party, are extremely large, and it's undeniable, but you're asking me to be too generous. You mentioned other titles, dearly beloved, but here's this book I'm going to give you 600 dinars, and now you're asking me to give you another 100 titles to give you, at 600 dinars, separate some of your receipts, and no problem, you're free to buy any of those titles that you want from the facts. And it's not someone who, unlike these concubines of yours, is a pendulum, it's someone who's been working hard and hard in The Hague, and wants to contribute to the lighting of new events from our history, as well as what happened centuries ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u623	The word is made by MP Milos Aligrudić, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u624	So, it's really an interesting question where Bosko Ristic, the proposing's authorised representative, is located. He's probably in Nis, we don't see him here, and the problem is next. In any case, a representative of the motion should attend the debate on the bill, both in principle and in particular, especially in particular, because it may happen that, as a result of the arguments he hears from the MPs, he may come up with the idea that some of the amendments and accept, so as to deny us all this torment. However, I can see that this is not happening, this side on my left, the Democratic Party, in particular, is fully convinced that the bill will pass as it is. Unfortunately, I'm convinced, too. It's easier that the law is short, stupid and unconstitutional, which is certainly better than it is long, stupid and unconstitutional, but that's just going to go away without Bosko Ristic, a proposing representative, which we're very sorry about tonight, and somehow it would be better if he were there. I expected you, Madam Chairman, to give us information about what you know about Mr. Bosko Ristic's whereabouts, whether he called you to leave this session in the meantime. If it isn't, tell us it isn't, tell us you don't know where it is, say it nicely, and then on behalf of the parliamentary group, I'll give up the idea of answering the Rules of Procedure until he gets back. Because in the end, believe me, we can do without him, but it's not his turn, because it's the opposite of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which it stands, that the messengers of the people are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. One is when a representative of the government, and that is not the case, does not attend a session of the National Assembly when discussing the bill. We can say that's not the order, and this is scandalous, because it's the opposite of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because in this way our fellow MP, who is the representative of the legislator of this law, who I repeat is a short of luck, but stupid and unconstitutional accident, is not here to defend him or to hear arguments against the provisions of this law, so that, if possible, that law is corrected - what I doubt.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u625	Mr. Ristic attended a significant part of the session. Business, will you please let me answer, it's not his obligation, but it's really okay to be here. He's not in town, and I'm not in a position to call him. A businessman, Mr. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u626	Madam President, we asked you a question about where Mr. Bosko Ristic is. We started the debate in the late afternoon, and you say he was present most of the session. The man hasn't since the beginning of the debate in detail about this law in the O.R. So don't deceive us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u627	Mr Dimitrievich, the right and responsibility of every MP is the matter of his personal decision. I'm sorry. Otherwise, if I could answer for others, I'd probably have some instructions, at least for a few. Next thing you know, Mrs. Donka, I'm sorry, but Mr. Maras and Mr. Dimitrijevic have an advantage over you, just figure out which one of you is going to be the first. Will you go first?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u628	Madam President, for your notice, since you do not know where Mr. Bosko Ristic is, he is currently visiting studio "B" with Mr. Vladan Batic. Is that the duty of a MP or the obligation of a proposing to sit here and answer the questions asked by the MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u629	Thank you. I'm really not able to do two jobs at the same time -- watch Studio B and be here. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u630	Article 101. So it's a replica of Ms. Jovanovic's exposure. You, Miss Jovanovic, said you would judge the court of history and leave it for some future time. Unfortunately, we live...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u631	I'm sorry, you don't have the right to a replica. You can only do business.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u632	That's not true. Miss Jovanovic, who sits on your right, said she's reporting to the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u633	That was - on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u634	Ms. Jovanovic, to come sooner, you said you were -- according to the Rules of Procedure, we could do an insight into the stenogram. Okay. I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, Madam President, that in Parliament's voting day, whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u635	Thank you. Ms. Natasa answered for the replica, Mr. Aligrudic had the advantage, but he said, regardless, he gave her his word - she kindly thanked the gentlemanship. That's the part I've been following around. He has Donka Banovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u636	Thank you. You must admit that Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic is absolutely right. She answered our question where Mr. Bosko Ristic is, because his presence here would be very important, above all, because the draft law on amendments and amendments to the second law was proposed by the MPs, and that is 122. They agreed that an authorised representative, on behalf of all of them, would be Mr. Bosko Ristic. I know that there have been discussions about laws, and there are no ministers, let's just say, who are proposing these laws, and always the opposition has objected, sometimes the position, or the government has objected, because it's very important to hear the arguments. I'm talking about Article 2. It's a bill of law. If you noticed or counted there are about 6 amendments to that article. They're about to come down to the same thing. Mr. Maras has a proposal to delete this article, and Mr. Aligrudic, they are both lawyers, suggested that through this text it be returned to a solution that now exists in the existing law. I have one third proposal, although I'm not a lawyer, and I know that lawyers may know a little better - to withdraw the full bill. You haven't changed much. So there's only a few members changed, but all this really changes drastically. Do you think about what will happen if this first vice president or Deputy Prime Minister is not satisfied or his party and coalition are not satisfied at some point, so he resigns? Does this mean that, in the jargon, the government fell, as all the powers that the Prime Minister also has are passed on to it? So it's some schizophrenic situation. I hope, because of the country I live in, it won't come to that. But it's also a mechanism and a death hug, so to speak, and a way to blackmail the majority who will make that government. So this bill actually introduces the creation of a two-headed bird. Then, when you think about it, since the Prime Minister has a golden voice, then it's not a two-headed creature anymore, but even three-headed. If Mr. Ristic were there, maybe you'd meet up, and you'd think about what happens if we call him the first vice president, or if we call him the Golden Vice President now, he actually resigns?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u637	Thank you. Members of the 3rd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Jovan Palalic. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the proposer's representative did not accept the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Palalic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u638	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, when I look at the text of the Bill on Government and when I look at the essence of these amendments that are defined in these four members, it is clear that it is trying to strengthen the position of Prime Minister and strengthen the position of Deputy Prime Minister, or as defined here, Deputy Prime Minister in an unconstitutional manner. This Article 3 is very special, it has caused the biggest discussion these days. Article 3 intervenes in Article 26 of the basic text of the law, which says that the government is taking decisions at the session of most of the votes of all members of the government, and the way the government works and decisions taken by the Prime Minister are more regulated by the government's rules of procedure. The bill introduces a new norm that says: ''In the event that the Government has an even number of members, the government's decision has been made and if it is voted by at least half of all members of the government, on condition that the Prime Minister voted in favour of the decision. '"We have one situation that, regardless of what some examples are presented here, there is nowhere to be found. This means that in the government, in the largest and most important executive body of government, when it voted equal number of government members in favour and against some decision, the decision was made. So, a situation that can hardly be explained logically, and especially cannot be explained legally. Politically, maybe, but through the discussion, we'll see if it can be both political and what is behind this proposal to amend and supplement the Government Act. We are entering one period, which has been discussed in previous days, when Serbia, viewed through the relationship between the presidents of the Republic and the government and the Prime Minister, comes into a situation before 2000, i.e. For the first time since 2000, when the President of the Republic is from one party and when the Prime Minister is from one party. The situation, known in the 1990s, has led to the fact that the Prime Ministers are the mere policy enforcement officers formed in the cabinet of the President of the Republic, because it is the key power of the President of the Republic, not because he has the authority to create a government policy and make strategic political decisions, but for one simple reason, because he is the president of the party from whose ranks he is also the Prime Minister. It is logical that the Prime Minister, who has the highest operational power, listens to the party president. In such a situation, the president and his cabinet are those who create politics and only carry out further orders to execute individual ministers, which in no way influence the creation of that policy. In this situation, we have a new moment -- that one coalition partner, in a large number of cases, in the 1990s, we had the majority dominant position of a political party, then the SPS, only in that government that was formed in 98, the partners agreed, i.e. political leaders, because that's how the government was set up. After 2000, we had a crisis and the President of the Republic, and the election and thousands of problems we had. Now, after two governments headed by Vojislav Kostunica, headed by one party, a strong government, with a strong prime minister, we have come to the point of trying to strengthen the position of a politically weak prime minister, who will be inaugurated by the ruling majority's will in a few days. Not to mention that article 26 hasn't been changed. In his view, 1st clearly states that decisions are made by majority vote. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as defined by the Constitution, particularly as the constitutional provisions of the Government Act have been elaborated, is not the cabinet government. It is not a government where the Prime Minister has the opportunity, as in some other countries, to appoint ministers on his own, to make decisions on his own. We also have such government functions arrangements, where government meetings are not voted, where literally the Prime Minister delivers decisions to ministers for execution. The government is the government in which decisions are voted and said: decisions are made by a majority of votes. It is impossible for such a government president, who is both politically weak and institutionally not strong, because the Law on Government does not give him that power, to give him such a position that with his presence at the government's session and his vote in the event of an equal number of votes, the government decides on large strategic decisions that can be shared. Not to mention the situation itself that the government has split up in this way over one decision, it is talking about a serious government crisis that the Prime Minister cannot solve by artificially giving him another vote. In a situation where the government cannot function to the greatest extent by consensus on key decisions, there is no government. That's the situation we've had now. The government's president, Vojislav Kostunica, when he was revoted at the cabinet's session, urged the people to vote. Now we have a situation, proposed by this law, that this government remains artificially viable, that this solution escapes new choices. This is a bad situation, which can produce deep divisions within the ruling coalition, which can have serious consequences for the country. In large strategic decisions, in a situation like this, a dominant position will be held by a party whose ranks are the government's president. Of course, the question arises, I would like to hear this hypothetical situation of potential coalition partners, the SPS representative, would you accept that such a government survives if they voted at a government meeting against a decision, and that the decision was considered to be made because the Prime Minister was the one whose presence in the divided government, based on such a passed law, made such a decision? If that's not true, why do we approach the adoption of a law like this? This is a lot of serious stuff. The National Assembly and the MPs must consider all aspects of such a hypothetically foreseen situation. Not to say that this decision is unconstitutional and, in the end, conflicts with Article 26(1) with the first position of the member to be intervened. So, you should leave the solution that was given in article 26. The government has no possibility of agreeing on one issue, a decision may be made by a majority of votes. The Prime Minister will then, unless he has the government's support, decide whether he will be president of such a government or call on the president of the Republic to call the elections. Artificially, maintaining such a position creates a serious institutional crisis in Serbia and can only mean one thing: that such a situation gives room for possible political settlements, which is not good at all in the situation when big decisions are made, and theoretically, such a large decision can be proposed by the government and that the government is divided, and that the prime minister, who has neither political power nor institutional power, is cut off by such a decision. Simply put, every citizen in this Serbia who participated in any choir, any meeting where something was voted, knows that when voted for or against the same number of votes, the decision was not made. After that, let the consultations go, let the talks go, so if the decision cannot be reached again, let parliamentary elections be discussed. Bringing Serbia into one such situation, changing the law only because of one concrete government, probably after the next parliamentary elections and forming a new government, this proposal for amending and supplementing the law will return to normal flows, this will all be thrown out of the law, as you are likely to adopt this bill, will return to normal, as governments operate everywhere in the world. To get someone out of the ruling majority here and just say where this is in the world, an example of a government in the world, to catch up to one base, to say that this is in Rhodesia, Madagascar, anywhere -- here, something like this exists, we saw it work that way, and we suggested it. This is one of our bad ones, which now serves a concrete political situation and certainly is not an honor to the parliamentary majority, and if adopted, it will not be an honor to Serbia either.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u639	The word came from Master Martinovic, then Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about Mrs. Verita's amendment, I must once again refer to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clear as far as the Deputy Prime Minister is concerned, there may be one or more of them. Article 2 The bill – those who earn, I would like them to come out for a pay phone, and explain these genius solutions contained in the bill. The constitution says he could be one vice president or there could be more. Watch what Article 2 reads. - Prime Minister determines one Deputy Prime Minister for First Deputy Prime Minister - Deputy Prime Minister. When you say it like this -- the Prime Minister determines, so he has to do it. What's in it for you? That the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been suspended, which says in Article 125 that the government can only have one vice president, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more. The bill does not say that the Prime Minister can determine, but determine. So he has to decide. Practically, if you adopt a bill like this, you suspended the Constitution. So in all future situations, the government will have to have more than one vice president. That's another reason why we shouldn't vote for this bill, because it's twice as unconstitutional. On the one hand, you are in an unconstitutional way introducing an institution, that is, the Deputy Prime Minister, which is not foreseen by the Constitution. On the other hand, you suspend the Constitution by actually making it impossible for the government to have only one vice president. I hope that's clear to those who laughed. As for Article 3, someone who considers himself politically very far-sighted, he tried to prevent, i.e. to remove the possibility that the government, because votes were shared, could not make any decision. Then this very far-sighted person came up with this formulation: ''In the event that the Government has an even number of members, the government's decision has been made and if it is voted by at least half of all government members, on condition that the Prime Minister voted in favour of the decision. ''Now probably this artificially scolded majority thinks, excellently, we've solved all the problems, if there's a situation to share voices, we've got our Prime Minister, we'll be fine. What, for example, if the government has an odd number of members, say there are 23 members, and a concrete cabinet session is attended by 20 government members, so again an even number. In what way will the Government overcome the situation, if the votes are divided by 10:10. Then there are no terms in Article 3. The bill, because Article 3 insists that the government must have an even number of members. What if there's an odd number, and a particular session has an even number? In what way will you overcome any misunderstandings in your coalition, which are already evident. I think that all those who follow the meetings of the National Assembly can see now what all the MPs see, and that is that there is absolutely no political unity in this future government, because if there were, would you, in advance, provide yourself with these artificial mechanisms, to keep in life a single government that can't make any ordinary decision, votes are divided half-half, and then how do we get out of that stalemate, let's give the Prime Minister that he has the right so-called. a golden voice. What's the problem? The problem is, of course, for this red and yellow coalition, which, unfortunately for them, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes that all citizens are equal. It's not said that whoever's from the DS has the right to double vote, who's the SPS to have one and a half votes. All citizens are entitled to one vote. In all possible elections, in every possible choice, when making any decision: one man - one vote. I guess that's one of the fundamental principles of democracy. Now what would the president of the DS have the right to two votes? Why? So as to artificially maintain a government in which there is no political unity. One unconstitutional provision again. Not only is it shortsighted, because if you already wanted to overcome the situation that the government is blocked because it cannot make a decision, then you should have said - in case the votes were divided, deciding whether the government had an even number of members. Again, I ask you a question, what is in the situation that the government has an odd number of members? In that situation, votes can be split half-half. So what do we do? Then how will a decision be made at that cabinet session? You obviously don't have an answer for that. I really don't know which country in the world, or if we don't move on, here's Mr. Milivojevic trying to be smart, but it doesn't go with him, in fact I don't know, maybe there really is in Rhodesia, who knows, although I haven't followed their legal system, but not to go far, Rhodesia is far away, is there an example like this in an EU country? Is there an example like this, that we do not even go too far west, here, Bosko Ristić mentioned here, says there is a parallel legal practice of Slovenia and Croatia. Now one of the two large countries is not an EU member at all. She committed genocide against the Serb people. This second one entered the EU in 2004, but its democratic traditions are quite thin. When Mr. Bosko Ristić already referred to the traditions of Slovenia and Croatia, there is indeed some basis. During World War II, the NDH government had a prime minister and vice president. According to the Ustasha terminology, the Prime Minister was named chief, and his chief deputy was named chief. Now you're actually introducing what was during World War II. Perhaps these are the liquids of Croatia to which Mr. Bosko Ristic is called. They had a chief and chief of staff, and we're going to have a Prime Minister and a Deputy Prime Minister. Are these traditions that are so bright and so democratic? It is no accident that Mr. Bosko Ristic called for the traditions of Croatia, the chiefs and the chiefs. In this new coalition, I don't know what Nishli's gonna say, I know what the Dukes will tell you, on whose behalf he wanted to speak today, Bojan Kostresh. So there is also the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina in the new coalition. A while ago, the party's leader, who could not enter parliament but on the back of the DS, attended some kind of party in Zagreb, at least transferred Croatian television, the anniversary of the banishment of Croats from Srijem. I'm trying to quote a Croatian reporter. Of course, Mr. Nenad Canak was present on that obituary. In the context of the circumstances, it was under one of the passwords on which it was written - during the year of Croatia. So as well as having a basis for what Mr. Ristic is called upon. So there are also those in their coalition who would actually want me to belong to Croatia. I'm afraid, indeed, we had to establish the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija a few years ago, because our occupiers wanted to kidnap that part of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. Now those who wish to surrender to the Croats enter the government. I don't want to be in a few years or maybe in a few months we're in a situation, Mr Milivojevic, Kruševac is far from Srema, I know, you're not afraid, but I don't want to come into a situation in a few months that because of the politics of the new coalition and Nenada Chanka we also have to set up the Ministry of Happiness, as we had to establish the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. From this rather innocent and harmless formulation of Article 3, as you can see, you can draw very far-reaching conclusions. To sum it up, that's probably what Ms. Verica Radeta was going to say, but since she's in the defense team meeting of our President Vojislav Seselj, I've been assigned to explain her amendment instead. So, she probably wanted to say that Article 3 is unconstitutional, that it is deeply opposed to the basic principles of democracy and that all those who are today calling for Slovenia's tradition, especially Croatia, obviously have no better argument, because that they should not say that Slovenia, especially Croatia, are some examples of reputation in terms of government, constitutional law and in general the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u641	Thank you. He's got a word for it, Professor. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u642	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin the story of the amendments submitted by Mr Palalic on behalf of DSS-New Serbia, on the one hand, and Mrs Radeta I assume on behalf of the SRS, just one note. We just heard here that Mr. Ristic attended a significant part of the session. Since Mr. Ristic is not in the O.R. right now, I conclude that this is probably a minor part of the session. As far as the amendment is concerned, of course they are filed in the same text to amend and supplement the law and I must say that I really don't see any logical reason not to accept that amendment. Namely, the problem, and that's actually the problem of the whole law, it's totally counter-constitutional. Some arguments were made by Mr. Martinovic, but these are not all arguments. The spirit of our Constitution, the closest one, I say, does not define how many votes it takes to make a decision in the government but to imply that it is passed by government law, but in the second place, with one body of the same rank or perhaps greater rank than the government, which is this assembly, it is very decidently saying that decisions are made by the majority of the votes of all MPs in the Assembly; not of course all, but the most important ones. And it does not foresee the right of the President of the Assembly to have a golden voice. If it does not provide for an institution that is more important than the government, no matter what anyone thinks, this is still the most important institution in the state, then there is no reason to apply it to the government's voting situation. But let's go again, we are such a country that constitutional arguments are not important to us or are not very important to us, to talk to and practically political. There is one important difference between the Parliament and the government. As a rule, the assembly is revoted, so there is a term for the assembly majority and the assembly minority, and by definition there is no revote in the government, because it is made up of a coalition that calls itself the assembly majority. Only if there's no vote, can such a government work. So the provisions that exist in the UK that government decisions are made by consensus, of course they are, I don't see any reasonable political reason for a revote in the government at all. Not that it has the same number of votes, but one side has 18, and the other five, it doesn't matter. The government, which has five ministers who will not vote for the government's decision, has de facto fallen. It can be done once, maybe twice, and then that government fell. After that it is known what follows, the President of the Republic or that a new mandate for someone who has a majority or if such a majority does not have an election, that is the case we have now. Therefore, you are in advance perceiving that the government will revote. How do you think this government works if it's going to revote? Well, not only will it be revoted, but if it's exactly 12-12 or 13-13, then it decides the golden voice. You know, it's, uh, I'm not gonna say it's inconclusive, but it's a little sad, we haven't put the government together yet, and we're actually breaking the government law in advance. In short, even in addition to not showing up again, since of course I think Articles 1, 2 and 3 should be deleted in the shortest, then, of course, the members of the 4 and 5 are both unnecessary and I support the amendments they have submitted, it seems to me, Mr Peric and Mr Martinovic, that these members are deleted. In fact, and I'm going to finish with that, the best thing to do is to delete this bill. Trust me, he's one big lascivious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u643	Thank you. The word is Mr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, respected citizens of Serbia, Mrs Verica Radeta belongs to prominent lawyers from a single line of lawyers in our parliamentary group. Mr. Krasic, you all know him well, one is also an excellent lawyer, and Mr. Martinovic is an academically educated man, who also achieves a significant academic career, and here confirms daily his really great knowledge of legal science. Then when the doctor comes here to talk, right, maybe it's declassified to talk about legal norms and principles. However, this member we propose to delete, who also suggests our colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, is really so absurd that there is also one layman to take a word and look back at all this with a few sentences. You see, we're having a conversation with the deaf, unfortunately. There's no Mr. Ristic. There's a guest on TV. The man just ran away. Is this about cowardice? Cowardice can be a reason, I don't think he's a coward, it's just that he has nothing to say and unfortunately we're having a conversation here with the deaf. What I'm saying is, please, we can't go back in the 21st century to the distant past, in the age of aga, in the age of a monk. Mr Krasic said here in one sentence the essence of the problem. If we talk about democracy, it rests on two principles, respecting the will of the majority, and when it comes to choice, and when it comes to deciding, one vote belongs to one man, there is no golden voice. This was resolved by the French Revolution in 1789, it is with the help of guillotine, when we have three maximums that were – liberte, egalite, egalite gentlemen, we leave fraternite, it is not relevant for this debate – do not force us at a time when the agamas have walked the outsiders, and you will do this to me if we enter NATO if NATO troops are allowed to pass through our country, where they do not correspond to our courts for any crime or crime committed. Now, there's a lot of criticism about running this session, and it bothers me. We shouldn't be so critical, it's stalking, there's time, people will get some kind of experience, but when I look at you, the presidency, and when I look at most of you from the new family, you look like Nusic's grieving family, most of you. Muk, there's no one to get up, nothing to say, possibly someone like that, gets kidnapped, I guess some desperate sign of suffering, so head towards us who come out here and talk. However, not all of you are mourned, there are cheers among you in that new family, and when you open the press, the newspaper, you see a drunken frat, celebrating the inauguration of the new future prime minister, the gentleman and that. Since I once promised that I would not owe, it is far more interesting to see Mr Vojislav Seselj in direct transmission, which is, unfortunately, today the only man in Serbia who defends the dignity of the Serbian people, who defends the interests of the Serbian state. Unfortunately, neither our parliament nor the executive government is doing anything to help him. Mr. Vojislav Seselj mocks the mockery of The Hague casamat, mocks the current new world order, and in this battle he will surely win, one way or another. I hereby conclude and invite you to at least respond to one of our remarks, to point out that we are wrong, to act parliamentaryly, to conduct a discussion, to conflict of opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u645	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. The representative of the proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you ask me where Bosko Ristic is, in principle of analogy, he's here for me. You remember yesterday his unmistakable reasoning of this law -- if Vlatko Ratkovic is there, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, then as well as that Bosko Ristic is there. I made a little joke about this, though, Vlatko Ratkovic today played his presidential role and legal knowledge shows a little more than Bosko Ristic. Let us not go back to history now, as he acted in the adoption of the Constitution and, holy to us, we have made an effort to get to this Constitution in Serbia. The government law has elements technical and political, and we have nothing against the technical and political elements contained in this law, which is why it is adopted. He has inside him and the elements of trade, and you know that illicit trade is a crime and that's what he's responsible for. I suppose this will pass with political penalties, political sanctions. I wouldn't mind much, either, but this law is contrary to the Constitution. As Milos Aligrudić, the MP of the people, likes to say, short, stupid, and I don't know what kind of things he doesn't, because if he didn't mess with the Constitution, we wouldn't even talk about him so much. Who cooked all this? The answer is very clear to me: Boris Fisherman Tadic. What's the catcher for? Today and a long time ago, no one caught a goldfish. He's already in Article 3 of this law trying to do it. When personal solutions are at stake, and about this law, neither are we, socialists gentlemen, against it, even if you could have the second first vice president, Deputy Prime Minister to act, it's not a problem for us, but the problem is that in this country, it's increasingly in violation of the Constitution. As long as we exist as a parliamentary group, while there are citizens who show confidence in us in the elections, we will not allow it. Imagine what irony, that LDP MPs are criticizing you and defending this constitution. You remember well, at the first special session of September 30, 2006, when we left this room, when this constitution was adopted, that they waited for us and what they said about this constitution. You now want both on 29 and 30 October 2006 in a two-day referendum, when Serbian citizens said in the majority that they accepted this constitution and when we were also on 8 November, also as MPs, at the second special session of the National Assembly, with, I think, 246 votes confirming this constitution, you are breaking it today and giving authority to the future prime minister, whoever he is, the strongest authority. Ministers who have less power and importance in the cabinet than vice presidents or first vice presidents elect the National Assembly, and the first vice president or vice president chooses himself. These are the powers, that everything is in accordance with the Constitution, which are directly contrary to the Constitution and you shouldn't have done that. I have to defend the amendment to Article 4, for one more reason, and it's all constitutional. For what? Because Article 4 stands - the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly is authorised to establish the consolidated text of the Government Act. So again, MP Vlatko Ratkovic is once again tempted. I think this is today which is too much for him and for us who are members of the Legislative Committee. I would once again apologize to the taxpayers for having scheduled the session today at 1200 hours and starting at 1800 hours, but we'll make up for that time, even though we had our own obligations between 12:00 and 1800 hours. How this government law, because I'm asked by Serbian citizens, is it necessary every time a government law is formed, and I tell them - seems to have to. Dear colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic said that there will be a divorce of this marriage very soon, and then what about the property? I care much more about property than children, and children are citizens of Serbia, which we also need to take care of. What were you talking about in the election campaign? When the elections were over, and before you agreed on the majority of the assembly, you said -- not with the SRS, not with the DSS and the NS, some of them you deterred, they want us back in the 1990s. And one very exact and scientific method suggests colleague Aleksandar Martinovic, that what you want to enter into the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Government Act has ceased to apply and is valid at the end of the 18th century, and you are trying to bring it back again today. You're making a big lie out of this law. When it comes to the implementation of this law, no special means are required. And as they are necessary, we have spent several days discussing the law first in principle, then amendments, so there will be a day to vote. Large funds have already been spent, and by introducing the first, adding what is chosen before the first, i.e. You'll increase the cabinets. In the past government, whose prime minister was Vojislav Kostunica, the vice president, probably the only one, had a cabinet that had more employees than the prime minister himself. How's it gonna be now? It will cost many citizens of Serbia, and we oppose it. And from the beginning of the story, when Boris fisherman Tadic may ask for help, I suggest the current National Assembly president not to show him any help. Fishing for Ahmet Shabo fish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u647	Mr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted the amendment to Article 5. The representative of the proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not the first time that a majority in this assembly is in such a hurry to break the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and here it is, this time too. In almost all countries of the world, the rule is that the law must pass a certain period of time from the day of publication in the official paper. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, the Constitution is very clear. Article 196(4) states the following - the law and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of publication and may enter into force earlier, only if there are particularly justified reasons. I underline this to the gentlemen of the ruling majority, especially the justified reasons for their adoption. What are the particular reasons? That's what the law-proposed ones tried to explain to us. ''Departing from the importance of the government as the holder of the executive authority and its role to lead the politics of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to specify the legal provisions on the position of Deputy Prime Minister, who replaces the Prime Minister and how the government works, which has an even number of members. ''These are particularly justified reasons, which prevent the wait for eight days, but on the day of the publication in the 'Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia', this freak, which its proposings have called, must come into force, the bill on amendments and additions to the Government Act. All those who understand themselves rightly know that in legal practice there are certain standards that are considered to be particularly justified. For example, it is particularly justified if the eight-day wait could endanger security in the state, public order and peace, lives, health and property of citizens; if something terrible were to happen, it would require that the law enter into force earlier than the standard time limit of eight days from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am now asking the legislators of this law - what terrible thing is going to happen in Serbia? If the constitutional deadline for the entry into force of every law, including this concave law on amendments and additions to the Government Act, is the world going to fail, is there going to be some cataclysm in the Republic of Serbia, will anything terrible happen that requires the law to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"? It's funny, it's really funny that under particularly justified reasons from the Constitution, it's considered a precision of the legal provisions on the position of Deputy Prime Minister. So important a reason to insist on suspending the eight-day constitutional deadline? Imagine, something terrible will happen in Serbia if it is not possible for the law to take effect on the day of its publication, and it sets out the legal provisions on the position of Deputy Prime Minister. What are the reasons for the law being passed by an emergency procedure? And that's an interesting question. We really don't know who wrote the explanation, this is really some dry genius. "The passing of this law by an urgent procedure is of particular importance for the functioning of the Republic of Serbia and its institutions, which is not feasible in a situation where the (observed) Government Act is still in force in an unchanged version. ''And the Government Act in the first version was adopted in 2005, so you changed it in 2007, and now you're changing it again in 2008. Now that a man's reads, who's not a little in trouble, he says, in a situation where he's still in power. Someone would say -- that's some law passed during the Kingdom of Serbia, so now let's change it, it's still the beginning of the 21st century; and that law passed three years ago and it's already been changed three times already. So do you know, gentlemen, how the laws apply and as long as the laws apply in well-organised parliamentary states? England and today have regulations that were passed in the 13th century. To remind you, it is a time when St. Sava walked in Serbia, and you say, it is necessary that the law enters into force yesterday, because the law that was passed three years ago is in force. You're making fun of the legal system, with basic legal concepts and you want to join the EU? What's wrong with the UK that it has legal regulations from the 13th century today? Is that why a less valuable state or are you worthy of the laws you make every day and in doing so... (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: Regulations. Mr. Milivoevich, you've given me a great reason to tell you something smart. Since you are a great European and a great Democrats... Please do not disturb the speaker. No, he doesn't bother me at all, he even gives me the incentive to remember something I've already forgotten. Mr. Milivojevic, England has an unwritten constitution. So there is not what we have, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so reproved, that you have divided to the MPs, and you do not adhere to it. So there's an unwritten historical constitution. One part of that unwritten historical constitution of England is one document, one law, which was passed in 1215. Four years later, St. Sava managed to act on the autokefalence of the Serbian Orthodox Church, purely on some weather correlations. The law was passed at the time of the king's reign, which the English called John Lekland, and we translate it as John without land. In this 1215 law, there is also the foundation of today's British government and the British Parliament, so it never occurred to anyone in England to say -- imagine, the end of the world will happen, there must be some law from 1215. And you passed the 2005 bill, changed it in 2007, and now you're changing it in 2008 and, imagine, it has to come into force yesterday, because something terrible is going to happen, it was brought, imagine, back in 2005. Now, Mr. Milivojevic, if this makes any sense to you, if this is justified to you, if this seems too much to you, please, I don't mind you throwing it out of the bench, it's even interesting, but please come out for the Serbian Parliament's pay phone, the ratings are probably a little smaller now, because the video of the trial started with Vojislav Seselj, or maybe not. In any case, please, probably a million to two viewers follow the session of the Serbian Parliament, come out for this pay phone. I consider you an intelligent man. Since the legislator's representative is not actually there, please come out and explain which are particularly justified reasons why this law, such as this disgrace and shame from the law, comes into effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". What terrible consequences, please, will happen if the constitutional deadline of eight days is respected? I don't see it now. Who knows, perhaps you will open my eyes, and explain to me that it is truly justified for the law to come into force yesterday, and not within eight days of the day of publication. If you could explain it to me and discover the genius hidden somewhere in this law, which I haven't been able to notice, I will be truly deeply grateful to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u649	The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u650	This amendment is trying to treat a provision of legislation that is practically vaccio legis - entry into force of the law. It is said in Article 5 - this law enters into force on the day of its publication in the “Official Messenger. ” My predecessor quotes nicely, I'll do it one more time, for the sake of clarity. Item 4 of Article 196. The Constitution in which it stands - laws and other general acts shall enter into force as early as the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in its adoption. Here it is quoted a little bit and what it says in the light of the bill's proposal, which is before us, however, given the previously expressed views of this bill by many MPs, and my own, where I have very well established that this law has three inalienable characteristics at the same time, it is that it is short, stupid and unconstitutional. Then it means very simply, starting from these premises that are unobstructive, that the opposite of any entry into force of this law would ever be particularly justified, and these three characteristics of this bill are precisely justified reasons for this law not to be passed and never to enter into force, let alone to enter into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It has nothing to do with even choosing the government of the Republic of Serbia, or voting on the government. I responsibly argue that any government, any political groups in parliament, are to form any of the following days, even if this junk of the proposal is never adopted in this House. It has nothing to do with that. Even the political arrangements that you made between yourselves and which you unfortunately translated into this nonsense can be realised in another way that does not offend the dignity of this House and the MPs, that they must even consider this amazing thing at all. It can be otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, there's no need to write nonsense and make us think about it all day and point to it. And we have to, because if this were quieted down and if there wasn't a written clue or a film recorded, a magnetic footprint that we were doing this, then we'd be even worse than you. So this was necessary to do. Unfortunately, it's 22.30 p.m. now, slowly ceases to make any sense to talk about this, because the wider auditorium at this point won't watch it, because the fair and normal world at this time, especially when the working days are going to rest. As far as we're concerned, we are here from these same citizens to fight a battle on their behalf, everyone is experiencing it in their own way, but please, the best solution for all of us is not to deal with whether this law when adopted, if adopted, will take effect on the day of publication or on the eighth day, or on the 15th day after the day of publication. Please, do what it takes to never come into force, withdraw this bill, close yourself in your party cabinets, agree on how you will feed each other's vanity so that you can function at all in favour of whoever is giving you a warrant to run the Serbian state in the coming period, because that warrant does not give itself but does it to someone outside the borders of this country, through the strongest exposure that is across the street from this building, which is Mr Boris Tadic. It is actually the one who will rule the government of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period, but agree on it in some other way. You don't have to do this by writing proposals of all kinds of nonsense and making us waste time, and that's a waste of time at the end of the day to discuss it and to insist, it's not worth it to you to prove it because you know it in advance, but to explain it to the citizens of Serbia who are following this transmission of what you are doing and what you are delivering to us. I repeat once again, since the law is short, stupid and unconstitutional, the real solution is that it should be withdrawn and that we should never allow it to enter into force, let alone the fact that there are some particularly justified reasons for it to take effect before the 8th day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u651	The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u652	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, it is truly amazing that we are facing such an explanation, and if someone has managed to send out what comments have been made to these reasons for the entry into force of the law before the 8th day since the publication, you will understand what I am, I must repeat the words of my colleague Milos Aligrudic, by stupidity we are facing. So either it's about fear, but then it's tragic, so it's funny that in the first session, the government is going to split up about adopting the Rules of Procedure, so it can't wait eight days from the day of the adoption of this law in the National Assembly. What a fear it is and what a mistrust within the ruling coalition, that it cannot wait for a normal vaccio legion that predicts the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to normally enter this law into legal force and produce these consequences that are catastrophic, but apparently the ruling majority can do whatever they want. The question is just what degree of mistrust within the ruling coalition is that it is now afraid that at the first session, there will be a fight over some decision and that it is absolutely necessary for the Prime Minister to have his golden voice at that time. And the second degree of mistrust is that maybe that Prime Minister won't give the powers that you're predicting here as Deputy Prime Minister. What you did with this argument that it is necessary to specify as soon as possible the legal provisions on the position of Deputy Prime Minister and on how the government has an even number of members speak only about fear and mistrust. We have repeatedly highlighted the problem of voting and the problem given to the Prime Minister when it comes to deciding at the cabinet's session. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia makes it clear that the Prime Minister is taking care of the government's uniform political functioning. He is the one who has to compromise, through the alignment of political principles, lead to consensus, not to turn this into his double voice. In this sense, it is important to repeat once again, the absence of political power, the absence of political influence, the absence of institutional influence that has or does not have a Prime Minister can not be replaced by a double number of votes. It is likely that at this end of today's debate, the citizens of Serbia should once again be told, we are entering a period of weak, inefficient and probably confusing governments are burdened by mistrust and lack of clear policy and vision. That's why a law like this is passed, and that's why this is supposed to come into effect as soon as possible, so that mistrust can eventually be prevented, and that there's no question of whether anyone's going to cheat already at the first cabinet session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-02-0.u653	I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The continuation of the session, which will discuss the draft law on ministries in particular, is scheduled for July 3rd 2008 at 10.00 hours. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 136 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, which means we have working conditions. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL ON MINISTRATIVES (specificities) Dear Members, before we move to work, allow me to give notice that the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs will be held at 12:00 in the Blue Salon, the Committee on Tourism and Trade at 12:30 in the Blue Salon, and the Committee on Privatisation at 13.00 in the Blue Salon as well. I ask the MPs to attend the meetings of these committees for their constitution. Thank you. Who wants a word in the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
