ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10496	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister, citizens of Serbia, I appeal to Article 226. Your Honor, I really need you, and I think to all of us, one notice. I don't want to say it again, the whole of Serbia knows what I'm going to talk about. So, about money for disabled people, or for people with special needs, to build several playgrounds. I finally got an answer from the finance ministry, I don't know if you've read it, but citizens must know this anyway. (President: Gentlemen, please be quiet so that I and all of us can hear Mr Markicevic.) ) As a man, I want to say honestly here that Dr. Diana Dragutinovic has done what is in her jurisdiction. Among other things, she sent the letter to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I won't repeat what I asked, you all know it here and all the citizens of Serbia know it. See what Minister Dragutinovic has said in the last few rows: "In this regard, we point out that the implementation of the projected funds of the 2008 Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia in the jurisdiction of the beneficiaries of the budget funds at whose appraisal these funds are granted, in this case the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Given the short deadline for giving an answer... "and remember well, and all the citizens of Serbia, when I first asked, "... The finance ministry faxed the request of MP Miroslav Markicevic to the competent ministry, i.e. The Ministry of Youth and Sports. Since we have not received the requested answer so far, we would like to inform you of this and to point out that if we have received a reply from the competent ministry, we will forward it to you immediately." This means that the Youth and Sport Ministry ignores the laws passed in the Assembly, ignores the amendment that has become an integral part of the law and shows its work and care for the disabled, so that all citizens of Serbia and the disabled and those who are healthy (and do not know what can happen to them tomorrow), I suggest that, since the law on free action takes effect on January 1st, everyone goes to G 17, raises three to 5,000 euros, as it is said (depends on how many adults in the household), so they go to "Fiyat" in Kragujevac to buy a new Fiat model that will be produced in Kragujevac, and then we all take passports and go to DS to check our free visas, and so we all travel together to Europe. This is the government of Baron Minhauzen. Since 1990, since the formation of the multi-party system, there has been no government that has lied more and deceived citizens than the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10497	According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10498	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I do not know if you had the opportunity last night on the first programme of Montenegro's TV to follow a show that addressed the Serbian issue and the issue of the position of Serbian political parties in the Serb republic and the situation in which the Serb people are located after the decision of the separatist and criminal leadership, headed by Filip Vujanovic and Milo Djukanovic, to recognise the quasi-siptar state of Kosovo. I asked a question more than a month ago, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, and I didn't get an answer – as long as it came to negotiations with Montenegrin authorities on the dual citizenship of our countrymen in the Serbian republic, given that in the first statements, Montenegrin Interior Minister Jusuf Kalamperovic, after talks with Serbian Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, said that whoever is next to the Serbian queen and who wants Serbian citizenship, should go there, but will therefore lose all rights and become a citizen, practically, second row in Montenegro? That's what's happening in reality. Today, people who are loudly saying that Serbs, as they declared several years ago on the list, have a major repression in Montenegro by the regime over themselves, against members of their families. I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to be, as some would say, the last hole in the play, but to take your mind and move on, on the basis of, above all, the proposal of Serbian radicals, which we went out with a few months ago, to develop a strategy of assistance, that is, all the rights that we should ask for, according to all international documents, for our people in Montenegro. Our MPs, Dr Nikola Žutic and Ms Marina Ragus, together with the Serbian Radicals Party and our leaders in Montenegro, with many people in science and with Montenegrin intellectuals, with Serbs who are truly honorable and moral people, launched a broad campaign to promote Serbia's strategy and the survival of the Serb people in Montenegro. We had one such gathering in Podgorica seven days ago, and we will continue from place to place, from city to city. I must remind you that a year ago we are in a broad action "Freedom of Seselj", because of the fact that the party in Montenegro is not called the Serbian Radical Party but the Serbian Radicals Party, since Serbian hero and hero Dr Vojislav Seselj is for Milo Djukanovic and his friends... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Of course, the Cypriot Separatist, someone who is unwanted and in the title of the party to which these people belong, that the government of Serbia is being announced as soon as possible, because we have to resolve the issue of passports and legitimacy and the possibility that the Serbian diaspora travels, be assured that the priority level is nothing more important than this issue, even most important, of the situation of the Serbs in Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10499	Ms. Jovanovic, your question was actually a parliamentary question. And on this occasion, I want to update the answer to this question, but it really wasn't necessary for you to get information to participate in the work of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, which is on the agenda. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 1. The bill on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and proposed adding "entrepreneur and legal persons" after the words "physical persons" to the words "entrepreneurs and legal entities". It's a legal trail of what we've done on behalf of the SRS in terms of correction of these three laws. I must, in order to get to know the public, read the provisions of Article 9, which are being changed, from the home law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. In fact, Article 9 says, "The Agency is obliged to pay off secured deposits of natural persons, in accordance with the law governing deposit insurance". This amendment was rejected by the government. I won't comment much, it was a similar situation with the other two laws. The fact remains that the government has not accepted - and I think it is a mistake, that it is the wrong view of the government - the protection of large enterprises, large systems, and it is a special mistake to exclude it from the protection of large state systems, public enterprises, and also utility companies, which are according to the categorization shown in the Audit Act. Anyway, it's about the government's mistake. What is important is to note that the overall context presented by the government regarding the increase in the amount of the country's secured deposit has been given political connotation, has intrigued the public and caused a public reaction. The public reaction came in a material-financial sense, through a break in the banking system. So, we ran away from reality, we ran away from the fact that the economic crisis, which has been present for a year, a year and a half in the US markets at the beginning, and later the EU, will come to our backyard. All the representatives of the government, including the governor of the National Bank, were optimistic about the fact that the crisis on our market will certainly not be, that there is nothing to be afraid of, that the banking system is stable and that there will be no disturbance on our monetary, financial or economic market. However, the moment the government sent the three laws to the Serbian Parliament, the citizens' reaction was what it was compared to what the citizens had experienced in the last 15 years. I think it's the government's fault. She had to speak openly to the public who would have all the consequences of this global economic and financial crisis that was present in the world. What's important is to mention and get to know the public, we could also hear from the finance minister last night that our banking system is safe, that we have high-quality banks and there's nothing to be afraid of. From a financial point of view, maybe that's the way it is. Banks made a 200m-euro profit in 2006. I ask you, who made this profit to the banks? They produced citizens and businesses. Why? Because we have the highest interest rates and the highest fees paid by citizens and businesses from all European countries. That's the result of a good system. The government is in favour of obtaining the banking system and the profits generated in banking, and it does not say that the result of this and that security, call the security of the banking system, the fact that citizens are paying the highest interest rates and the highest fees in Europe. If we said that the economic postulate and the financial postulate that the interest rate is at a certain percentage higher than inflation, these are economic postulates and we don't have to talk about them. We have an inflation based on official statistics ranging between 8 and 9, so let me say up to 10%. Our interest rates, current but not only current, but what goes for citizenship, what is present in 2007, 2008, is about 20 percent. Our official inflation was 8.5%. In this year we will have average inflation, slightly stronger than 9%, and our interest rates will be on average about 25%. We now have more than 30% interest on cash and consumer loans. You see the difference now. And an even more unfavourable picture is when we see the ratio of passive and active interest. Passive are the interest banks pay on certain deposits they receive from citizens, businesses, they take from abroad. The interest on which that capital is sold is active. So the input is up to 10%, and we're selling 20, 25, 30%. You see that difference. Is that anywhere in Europe? There isn't. In normal European banking, the relationship between base inflation and base interest is 1%, 1.5% to 2%, and we have 10-15%. That's why we have this kind of banking. Can citizens of Serbia, poor, jobless, pay such high interest and create a "good and secure banking system"? The population and economy of Serbia are impoverished, cannot and cannot. In 2007, we had a 10% reference rate. A month or a month and a half ago, we raised it to 17.75%. Who can pay for that? What economy can stand it? Even the most profitable European companies will not and cannot pay such high interest rates, not the poored Serbian economy. That's what we need to talk about. The government has to deal with this issue, and without it, there is no government, we have no economy. I ask the Government's question, it received clear information and a message, including the opposition, particularly from representatives of the SRS who pointed out enormous profits in boards, directors in public enterprises, management structures in public enterprises – what was done here? Nothing. Why? Because there are people from coalition parties who are currently in power. I ask the question of the Minister of Finance – did you, when you proposed and selected boards in public enterprises, give clear instructions to members and the chairman of the boards of directors what to do, what are their obligations? Have you held any meetings with the board of directors of NIS, Srbigas, etc.? You're not. That's not common. Did you ask for information when you received information on an enormous increase in earnings paid for the last two or three years? Have you called the chairman of the board of directors and directors of the public firm and said - on what basis you pay it off; you are monopolies, you cannot do it. What sanctions did they follow? You promised in public that you would bring in a regulation that would limit your profits to directors and presidents and board members. Did you do it? You didn't do it. You can't, they're your people. You're in the hands of these directors, or your party colleagues. We got information here yesterday from the finance minister that the salary of the chairman of the board of directors at the Deposit Insurance Agency is 34,000. But, on the other hand, the Director of the Central Register, the same state body, has a profit, a salary, a fee, I don't know how much more -- it's been published, no one has denied it, 1,200,000. Is the job of that woman who performs the work of the Director and Chairman of the Management Board 35-36 times more responsible than the President of the Management Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency? It's not. You have to change these relationships, but you don't have the strength within the existing government and the existing government. He can't do that, there's no state, there's no system if you don't limit it. You can't live in an economic crisis in such a way that someone throws away, and someone doesn't have a profit. We are witnesses that every day we have a few dozen, hundreds of thousands of people who lose their jobs, on the other hand, certain states, monopolies and institutions, institutes, agencies, etc. They share as much as they want just because they're monopolies. You have to cut it off. You can't allow these relationships in wages. What can you justify? How to get out in public and say – here, in this agency, the compensation for the job of the chairman of the board of directors is 34,000, and there is 1,200,000 - 35 times bigger? Is this job so much more responsible and complicated? No, it's not 1.5%, it's even more responsible work. You don't have the strength, you don't have the opportunity to look into that director's eyes. The finance minister in this case must be held accountable. As soon as you saw that, so you knew it, but when it came out, you had to spot it, bring the rules on the height of the profit, and it's gone. The highest earnings must be made by the president, the prime minister, etc. The hierarchy. Then there would be no running into boards and directors of public enterprises. There wouldn't be a kidnapping, we'd settle it in a second. Furthermore, when we talk about state aid, I think you've made an appointment here, that you haven't made any progress, any shift that would leave a certain positive trail. You need to pass a law on state aid. You must not allow certain subsidies, certain one-year state aid, to be at 27 billion, such as this year for agriculture, to be around 17 billion and 18 billion, respectively next year. We must not put agriculture in that position. How will this farmer, the farmer who lives on agriculture, of the products he produces, be able to compete with some farmer in Germany, the Netherlands, and even in neighbouring Croatia, when he gets three, four or maybe ten times less than the farmer in those countries that I have listed? You don't have the law. You have made a commitment to EU regulations to pass this law, to pass a law on state aid control, to carry out all matters related to state aid control and to allocate certain appropriations for these purposes. You've neither singled out the funds, nor this law was passed, nor you're in control, and you've damaged the most vital branch of which nearly half lives... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10501	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10502	Dear members of the presidency, respected Madam Minister, was on December 15th yesterday, the date when the legal deadline for the budget to be adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was broken. Unfortunately, he was recently sent from the government to the Assembly for consideration. I would like to refer to the law which is on the agenda, i.e. the amendment relating to the amendments to the law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, and the amendments and additions to the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, given that these two legislative proposals are closely correspondence and have been discussed in the package, together with amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act. The bankruptcy as an institute is certainly significant, because it is a legitimately good way for banks that are not liquid to be either reorganised or to get their liquidation. In this regard, of course, there must not be room for manipulation, and it is important to note that in the previous period there was a lot of controversy about the way the bankruptcy was done in four large domestic banks, when employees were found on the street, and with the property of these banks had to be more transparent. Some of these banks still have their own giro accounts, so the question is whether they had to end up that way. It would be interesting to look at John Perkins' book entitled "The Confession of an Economic Killer" and compare the measures taken with the scenarios described in that book. Otherwise, measures in four large domestic banks were introduced in 2002, during New Year's holidays. In this respect, it is important to mention the essence of the amendment proposal and the addition of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, which, in addition to agreeing with the Deposit Insurance Act, is that the Deposit Insurance Agency is empowered to buy bank actions that threaten the stability of the financial system by their business. So, the intensity, as the ruling coalition argues, is that it responds in a timely manner in terms of the financial crisis by applying measures to cover possible losses and to prevent damage that citizens can suffer in this regard. With the understanding of good intentions, there remains indeed a series of ambiguities, such as the question of who and in what way exactly determines which banks are putting financial stability at risk by their business. The Agency is given high authority, and it is particularly interesting to mention that it will have a discretionary right to decide on these issues. One might wonder what tenders for the sale of banks and other companies are then if the Agency itself decides which bank to capitalise on. Is there room for manipulation - another question to ask. In the end, what the state is going to do with this problematic property, as if there aren't enough losers in its own possession already. Authorities spoke of the need to restore confidence in the banking system. I think this issue can also be extended to the credibility of institutions, i.e. the introduction of the Institute of Responsibility, because usually trust and responsibility go with each other. The promise made lightly does not follow their fulfillment, and therefore citizens lose confidence in institutions, and on the other hand, of course, no one is responsible for it. This is also seen through an example of how many citizens withdrew money from banks in the previous period. And not only through that example, but through how much fresh money is invested in banks in the Sunday savings. I think it's also the result of a late and limited government response to the general financial crisis. We remember well that there have been complacent announcements from top state officials that the crisis will have a favourable effect on Serbia and that Serbia will actually profit from the international financial crisis. The day-to-day facts seen in the difficult life of citizens deny it. I'm a citizen's life deny it. Even Governor Jelasic recently cried out that the government should help the National Bank so that it would not remain lonely in the fight to preserve the stability of the dinars. In this regard, the DSS has also proposed, in the form of a law, that representatives of relevant institutions form a committee to monitor the international financial crisis, and that the rejection of our proposal did not go to the detriment of any political party, but solely to the harm of the state interests and interests of all citizens. Thus, the ruling majority also acted when the DSS proposed a deposit insurance law of up to 20,000 euros, saying it was pure demagogy. Soon afterwards, the government itself proposed to secure a deposit to a 50,000-euro figure, although the question is whether there is a real financial basis for it. I think it's a virtual measure more than one that can really calm the citizens. Next year, about three billion euros in debt to pay, and then it is expected that limited revenues will make it difficult to service debts, may result in a spill-over to the financial sector, with the risk of collapse and a return to hyperinflation from the 1990s, which I believe we all remember very well. This should add to the assessment that in the world, the financial crisis will last about two years, certainly with an estimate that it will remain much longer, simply because of the structure and the way our economy works. The crisis must not be used as an excuse for a lightly made promise just six or seven months ago. Whoever made those promises, and now either deny them or significantly alters them, or at the time he wasn't able to recognize what was going on on the global agenda, or he knew very well what was going on on on the global agenda, but he kept quiet by making unreal promises, all for the sake of success in the election. Unfortunately, in this situation too, it is the citizens who remain on the sidelines. The DSS was willing to propose certain legal solutions to the authorities to make a kind of deal in order to jointly seek a way out of the crisis that our country is entering. Otherwise, the DSS has a comprehensive programme and plan to save citizens the maximum negative effects and not only through passive measures, but through active development measures. Today these measures will be officially presented to the public. Unfortunately, as I said, the ruling majority rejected all opposition parties' proposals on these issues and, as they are not interested in any agreement with the opposition on this issue, I believe that the absence of the will to agree can also be seen in that there are no joint agreements regarding the functioning of parliament, but because of this, there is a mutual exchange of accusations on who is guilty of obstruction, of ineffectiveness of parliament, etc. The results of the government's interest in nothing but its own is that the adoption of the budget has broken all the legal deadlines, and it is not late because of the opposition, but because the authorities could not agree on it and deliver it to parliament in time for consideration. It seems to me that the opposition is also not responsible for the drastic downfall of the dinar. The question arises who is responsible for the promise of opening 200,000 new jobs, which have become an effort to preserve existing jobs. I wonder what the next statement is about jobs. What about an increase in pensions? Does anyone think that for all of this they should be held accountable, or does the state officials, instead of one active role, play the role of the postman who carries a bunch of bad news telegrams to citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10503	Thank you, Mr. Lazic. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. In 225 and 226, I would like to ask the President of the National Assembly, as today is Holocaust Day over the Roma, to organise a congregation delegation to visit a Roma settlement. As it travels to Moscow, Lisbon, a delegation of prominent MPs, elected by the president of the National Assembly, can also visit a Roma settlement in Belgrade. That's because, with all the efforts of the state so far to at least make their lives a little easier, I think (Here, and Mr. Micunovic beats me, the rhythm has spread. ) the coming crisis, which will hit many citizens of Serbia, first to bring it down to the poorest, and Roma should certainly be counted among those who are the poorest, who suffer a lot for their future. I think that at least the encouraging words of the president of the National Assembly, and she can encourage, mean a lot and represent a sure sign that Serbia is, apart from saying that the European state is able to do something for its own, I would say, the most loyal citizens. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10505	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Your initiative is quite in place, especially given the fact that we are in the decade of Roma integration in the wider community. I ask the heads of parliament to deliver the names of the MPs, from each parliamentary group to one MP, and to address the secretary general at the time of the break, to discuss the operationalization of your idea. The word is Mr. Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10506	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have two suggestions. One proposal is to take advantage of the presence of Minister Dragutinovic, to have the government withdraw from the procedure the law on civil servants and associations of citizens, to be a voter's day tomorrow, so that we can rule out amendments to the Law on travel documents. Yesterday I warned that we were in complete tea, that there was a Catholic Christmas on the threshold, that people should travel. At this rate, we won't be able to vote before Monday, and then it takes eight days, the president's first statement, to make the law public and come into force -- it's New Year's Eve already. It doesn't make sense to play with a lot of people who are supposed to travel abroad. I hope our friends from NGOs don't find themselves hit, it's just a few days. At a time when I was a minister, we agreed with NGOs, so, more than five years ago, we prepared a new law on citizens' associations. He's never found himself on the agenda, so I don't think there's going to be a few days of such an obstacle. That's one suggestion. The second proposal is that the Serbian Parliament congratulates the Montenegrin Parliament on the fact that Montenegro has applied, has run for EU membership. There's no such thing as sympathy, antipathies at all. We need to get out of these frames of love, hate, vanity, evil will, defiance and spite. It is a fact and that position of Montenegro should be welcomed. It's not worth it, it's not worth it, it's not worth it, it's worth it, it's worth it to us to be supportive. The fact is that Montenegro has been in front of us for a year already, unfortunately, only two years since it separated from Serbia, but the facts and truths must be looked into the eyes. Madam President, on behalf of the Serbian Parliament, I suggest we send one card to the Montenegrin Parliament for this fact and this event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10507	I thank you for your initiative. The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I would like to say that it is not worse for parliamentarians to be more often with the citizens of Serbia, on any basis and any occasion, in order to get to know their problems better. But yesterday, there were 94 years since the Colombian battle, 22,000 Serbs died to have a state today, we could have been here in parliament for at least a minute of silence to pay our respects to those people, regardless of what was in the past. How long ago, the question is, since many things have been happening to us over the last hundred years. No one thought of that. It's a few days ago. ) Mr. Vukic visited Zagreb and Croatia, with all state honours, reportedly wanting to know and see how this people live there, referring to Serbs in Krajina, saying there were as many as 6,000 Serbs left in Knin. Of course, these Serbs cannot benefit from this visit, as Roma, unfortunately, will not benefit from today's or tomorrow's parliamentary visits. There is a representative of the Roma here in Parliament. They should, too, expect them to be the initiators of many important decisions or actions related to the difficult social situation of the Roma, but not only the Roma, of course, are at risk. All poor citizens of Serbia, however national, are at risk. There are also Slovaks, and Hungarians, and Serbs and all others. So our job is to keep in touch with the citizens of Serbia. It's not bad to go around the Roma, but let's think of everyone else, any other reason. I cannot believe that such a state visit by Vukic, welcomed only by an ideologist like him, Ante Djapic was so prepared. The state government, of course, couldn't say hello, but gave all the logistics away from supporting the police at the border crossing, an unprecedented escort where he appeared, with media support, a tour of all the families he would visit ahead, as when Tito once visited a house (it speaks in itself) and, of course, expected later demonstrations in Zadar, because apparently one Serbian nationalist visited Croatia. It's a story for small children and a five-pare newspaper, and I believe the citizens of Serbia have recognized that fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10509	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure again. Please keep your participation in the Rules of Procedure to a minimum, given that all the topics you have launched are, of course, interesting, but we also have appropriate congregation bodies that can pass on initiatives. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10510	I really can't believe that hate is driving you so much that you have to react to every move. I didn't react when you boasted about going to Montenegro, I think it's good and it should, and it bothers you when someone else goes to the Serbian Krajina, in the Republic of Croatia, an officially recognised state, to visit Serbs, to see how they live. It bothers you that the Croatian government, in a desire not to have a scandal or tragedy that could not be justified, provides for whoever goes there. It bothers you that there is a "progressor" meeting with Serbs, and you say "pre-prepared Serbs". It bothers you that the Croats are demonstrating against this visit, so you say "pre-prepared demonstration". You have a problem with the proposal to visit Roma settlements because it does not achieve anything. Everything bothers you. But you're starting to bother Serbia, too, and you need to figure it out in time. There are a few of you who are completely failing to throw this party away. There are several of you who should write to the party president to change the party's leadership. There are high-quality young people here who want good and foreigners and Serbia, and you who only hate me and who lead a party inspired solely by hate for me, don't realize that you've ruined what's left. Mr. Todorovic, just look at me. What you said about my grandson will haunt you as a memory of our great friendship as long as you live. During the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are pounding about the benches all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10511	Of course, the word is Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10512	They won't, but it's obvious that you've been reached by a message and you've begun to understand what awaits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10513	Mr. Nikolic has a word. I'd really like to ask you to move to work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10514	The message sent through you by Vojislav Seselj came to me, but it would be good if you said what awaits me, that it would not turn out that I always say in advance what you have prepared for me, but as you know, Mr Todorovic, what awaits me, come out here and tell me what awaits me. If it awaits me to be caught by the curses of your narrator, Gordana Pop-Lazic, the Witch of Rade, Natasha Jovanovic, if you think you deserve to utter the curses and make those curses come true, you are wrong. I wish you so much happiness in life. I want you to raise your children calmly and your grandchildren when you have them, and you don't mention family and my grandchildren to me anymore, because it only says that about you. I'd like this party to be in parliament again, and as you're going, you won't be. So you're more and more acting so that I wish you weren't in parliament. And when I do, you won't be in parliament. During the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are pounding about the benches all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10515	Mr. Todorovic. This dialogue should indeed be completed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10516	I told you, Tomislav, on Monday before you came to the assembly and told you that you had started a new Parliament club. That's when you deceived me and the MPs that you weren't going to rip up the party, that you weren't going to invite anyone, and you were already doing it. All that was before that, you stepped on it. As a man, you should have told me, and there wouldn't be any problem. You have your own way and go as you choose, do what you've done. And you know what's gonna happen to you? What I told you back then, on Monday -- Tomislav, you're just a ram on top of the cabin that needs to break through the door, that a party is formed in which you will temporarily figure, and for a certain time, you will end up where someone has already assigned you. No one, as far as the SRS and any other political parties are concerned, will. They'll do the ones you formed this new party with.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10517	National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted an amendment proposing that Article 2 be made. The bill is deleted. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? You want the word after the Rules of Procedure, not the amendment? You know what, the citizens are watching us. I really thought, Mr. Nikolic, you'd be after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10518	I'm finishing my controversy with the SRS. I don't even want to get into political controversy with you because you'd like to do what we're doing right now and be so successful, but you're not, and you're turning wrong. Just one thing, don't give too much detail about our conversations, because then one day I could say everything here, what do you think of Vojislav Seselj and what you said in his eyes. Better not, because I have always appreciated that Dragan Todorovic who will repeat what he says. So, if you didn't have any indication that I was making a new party, what did you advise me not to make it? Why did you give me advance advice that Wolf would ruin me if I didn't tell you I was making a party? Second, I know, you promised Vojislav Seselj you'd stay in the party while he's in The Hague, otherwise you'd leave immediately. That's how our conversation went, and I appreciate it with you, Mr. Todorovic. I don't appreciate you getting on with these grandmothers, so you can mention my grandkids. (President: Do not insult the Members of the Parliament, please.) I don't appreciate it with you, as I don't appreciate these grandmothers... (Employees of the SRS are banging on the bench all the time during the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10519	Because they're grandmothers, it's very nice and don't insult them. Mr. Todorovic, we have a budget waiting for us, we have very important laws ahead of us. Here you go. Gentlemen, I remind you of the time dynamics and obligations we have in front of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10520	I've never had any idolatry relationship with anyone, nor with Vojislav Seselj. I've always said what I thought and stood up for it, and I'll do it in the future. But what I say to Vojislav Seselj, it stays between me and him. The difference, Tomislav Nikolic, between you and me is that you betrayed me and I didn't. That's the difference, Tomislav Nikolic. I told you that, too. I could have been angry and angry with Vojislav Seselj, normally, but there's one problem. [[Applause]] I said, while he's in The Hague, I'm not going to do anything to make him spend one second thinking about me or my actions, but I'm going to leave him time to defend himself there. And I will do so until Vojislav Seselj arrives. [[Applause]] And then I expect you to come out with your political ideas, ideology, to explain to Vojislav Seselj and to the citizens of Serbia who are ideas. If you had told Vojislav Seselj in time, he might have taken it too. [[Applause]] You won't say Vojislav Seselj is a stupid man, so he can't understand what's good for Serbia, for Serbian citizens and to reject it. You know he only has one rule, facts and arguments, and empty and hollow stories don't apply. That's the difference between the story and the essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10521	I really don't think we should talk about these topics anymore. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: This was a political time for citizens. ) Please, the political time for citizens cannot be and is not responsible for being at a time when we need to discuss significant laws and amendments. Does anyone want a word after the amendment? You want a word with the Rules of Procedure? You know what, please... First Mr. Nikolic, then you. Mr Nikolic is head of the parliamentary group. Mr. Nikolic, you have your word. Now, I ask you to say which member is injured, which is why you're reporting, and let's put these dialogues in some form at least a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10522	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, member 104 has been injured, and I've been named here as some kind of traitor. That's right, I've betrayed these applauses of yours, and that's all. So, by my behavior, by my performances, by my address to you, I didn't deserve your applause and, if it's treason, I did. My ideology has brought you into this House. For five years, I've been spreading that ideology to you. You didn't mind. It's so different from what you're doing right now. What you're doing right now is not my ideology, it's the ideology of Vojislav Seselj, and what you've been doing so far, what the SNS is doing, it's my ideology, and I've explained it to the citizens of Serbia. What do I have to explain to Vojislav Seselj, whom you, Mr Todorovic, told me in front of me that he is the greatest liar in Serbia? What facts do I give to Vojislav Seselj when you in a prison cell tell him he's a liar, Mr. Todorovic? Don't play with hard words. Vojislav Seselj knew every move I made, every step of me, he knew everything. And you knew. When you lied to him that we hadn't decided to vote for the deal, I read you a stenogram, you were there, you, the babes, who are now ruining the SRS. Mr. Todorovic, there is no way to interfere with the defence of Vojislav Seselj. And the one there, Krasic, who got his eyes into his head from writing at night, when he accused me of killing Vojislav Seselj, to deny his defenders, to deny his phone calls, he lied, but I didn't want to argue with Vojislav Seselj about his defence. Now he's got, he's defending himself, he's got privileged conversations, he's got conversations here in the Assembly where he's giving you instructions and orders. So his ideology was also in Vranjska Banja, there's a percentage of votes below 5. His ideology was also in Književec, there's a percentage of votes below 5. I'm not going down with you. I want to lead Serbia. You didn't want to. Don't let me tell you more about what he told you and me, which is why we could now join the government, because that would be the end and that guy Vojislav Seselj you want to keep.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10523	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10524	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The gentleman here cruelly insulted all those who were fortunate to welcome him to become grandparents. On their behalf, I have to go out for this pay phone and say, "That's Mr. Nikolic's real face." He thinks about his grandchildren, but he doesn't mean other people's grandchildren. If he thinks he insulted me, he's wrong. Every woman in her life has a period of girlhood, has a period of maturity, has a period of time to become a grandmother. That's one beautiful thing to say, calling, or status, or whatever you want. Still, unfortunately, I'm not a grandmother, but I expect to be lucky to be a grandmother soon enough. I have three daughters, so I guess I'll have at least nine grandchildren. I'm really proud of that. I would like to tell him one more thing: Mr. Vukic did not visit the Republic of Serbia but an independent state of Croatia at the time when he marked the day of the death of Tudjman, the largest dušman of the Serbian people. As for Mr Krasic, who is resented for getting his eyes turned on by writing at night, which is probably true, because he works 24 hours, that's probably for every commendation, that someone is so committed to the job he's gotten to. By working and helping Vojislav Seselj, he does not really save his time, nor his effort, nor his family, nor his health. If it bothers anyone, then someone has a problem with themselves. Such hypocrisy, as Mr Nikolic puts it behind this speaker, is unacceptable to think that any average citizen can see how much he has become a man who simply dissipated his personality, who no longer knows what he is. He's not a radical, they told him he's "progress," but he doesn't know what his destiny is or where he's going to go. I'll tell him where he's going next - where the people who forced him to do this will. Maybe he knows the Security Service, maybe he knows the Croatian Intelligence Service, maybe MI-6, I have no idea which of those services are already involved. They must know his fate. We don't know and we can't help him with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10525	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10526	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I must draw your attention to article 27, because it would be a great insult to the National Assembly to call on Article 104 for the presentation of that "zumbula" Because it's "zumbul," not the MP. But that's your problem. Why did you misapply Article 27? You had to warn this "zumbul" that he must not be presenting any information since he was headed by the Defence Committee of Vojislav Seselj and must not publish that privileged information. Because if it publishes them, not only does it cause a problem for itself, it is his business, but it endangers the difficult position of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal anyway. I can understand the author of this book, it's Mr. Vukcevic, and I'll brief you on that later. He's much more honest than "zumbula." At least he writes it all, publishes it, and seals it. And here we have one insidious variant, about: I defend myself, my life is in danger, my family is in danger, everything is in danger - from whom? - from someone who has been in custody for six years and who, when the phone is touched, is immediately recorded, and even the Shaker Bigger has to defend Vojislav Seselj from Tomislav Nikolic. Look at what kind of manipulation he is exposing to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And, of course, if Boris Tadic touches the button, he runs out to turn the debate the other way, so we don't talk to him about Eulex, so we don't talk about the global financial crisis, so we don't talk about thefts, so we don't talk about the future route of Vojvodina, so we don't talk about life in the Republic of Serbia. But I'm especially scared when Nikolic comes out for a pay phone and says something unless he swears. If he swore, I'd be sure it wouldn't happen to me. But when he says something so he doesn't end up with a "squeak," then it's dangerous, then he does it. Please, free us from this fear. We work here under stress, really. The man's gone crazy, we don't know what he's going to say. Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you know, in such situations, therapy is usually changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10527	Who wants the word after the amendment? Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't explain the proposal's wish to explain why this law on complementarity of the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies must, unless it's still a wish to complete something quickly, that whatever is possible is taken away from the banks, and everything in as short a time as possible. I will read Article 2 on which I have submitted the amendment, for the sake of the public, and especially for MPs who understand this a little more, and they will vote, when it comes to this bill, to be adopted. He says in Article 11 of the basic law: "The Agency and creditors have the right to refute legal transactions and legal actions which the creditor has favoured creditors in terms of the law governing the bankruptcy of companies. Legal transactions and legal actions referred to in Article 1(1) may be refuted if they are carried out within six months before the date of the legal consequence of the bankruptcy proceedings and within one year if those transactions are carried out with a connected person. The deadlines set out in Article 2 shall start from the date of the entry into force of the winding-up procedure in the event of the bankruptcy proceedings being carried out on a proposal from the liquidating manager when it is established that the assets of the liquidator are not sufficient to settle all claims of the trustee... ". I don't want to read any more, but just to explain. So it's about winding up when the bankruptcy manager estimates that the property of the person over which the bankruptcy is done can't collect claims. All of this would be fine if we didn't have one problem, which is much older than this law itself, whose basic text was adopted in 2005. This whole story goes back in 2002, but before I continue this 2002 story, let me explain to the citizens and MPs what a bargain is. Adequate conditions for banks, when it comes to the assets of banks, when it comes to the lease of that property, when it comes to the sale of that property -- that's a bargain. We have a case of bids since 2002, when it comes to liquidation, or bankruptcy, and now I see, according to this bill, the liquidation of four largest Serbian banks. So since 2002, four of Serbia's largest banks have been closed. They had the best and most exclusive business space in all cities and larger cities across Serbia, the most expensive business space possible. If you look at the addresses of these branches and the exposures, you'll see that what I'm saying is true. Since the closure of these banks, i.e. the withdrawal of permits for the operation and launch of their bankruptcy, and all by the order of the then governor of the National Bank of Mladjan Dinkic, these abuses that are to be brought to an end by the adoption of this law, or by its last application, when voted. It's starting to be a new bank called the National Savings Bank. You see the coincidence, that's the name that tells the citizens that it's a state bank. No one then, out of power or from the media, wanted to explain to the citizens that the state owns only 30%, after deciding on the establishment of the bank, and that Vojin Lazarevic, Vuk Hamovic, "Sinerji Capital" with owner Nikola Zivanovic, had the other 70%. And the problem is -- where did that founding role come from, the gentlemen I listed? Well, from the foreign reserve at the time of the SRJ, which was withdrawn from the Russian bank and paid here as a founding stake by our own resources. To make things even worse, the banks you call social, and I can say freely to the state, means that they are in liquidation, that very National Savings Office is entering their business space and as a connected person, it suits them. Because it's connected to 30% of the founding role. And that was young Dinkic a little bit, so he forbids payment traffic through the Office of Accounting and Payment, but payment traffic directs business banks. A large business space is being released, again at exclusive locations belonging to the Department of Accounting and Payment, and, where wonders - who is moving into this exclusive space? - the National Savings Bank again. When it ended with immigration, when it was convenient, when special contracts were concluded with lease benefits for 99 years or for the sale of certain business premises to the National Savings Officer, the state then sold its minority share of 30% at a far lower price than the later Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, "Sinerji Capital" together with Nikola Zivanovic sold to the Greek EFG Bank. Who's making all this money? Just these three. With whose help? Young Dinkic. Well, you can't convince me that Mladjan Dinkic worked for them only in beautiful eyes, he must have had some use for it. In some ways, I am quite surprised by the reactions of some of my fellow politicians and the reactions of some political parties when it comes to NIS. You know, I wish my colleagues who were in the executive office back then, the G17 didn't exist, but he had a vice-president of the federal government in charge of economic issues, so the governor of the NBS, so some other party that was now here had a vice-president of the Republic of Serbia, we have a single MP, who was then a minister of justice, not to mention further. I'm just going to read again to the citizens of Serbia, and hopefully this will start to defend those who defend the NIS, that the Trade Court in Belgrade has formed, on the proposal of the bankruptcy manager, the Committee of Trustees when it comes to the bankruptcy and liquidation of Sartide. It is said that the Committee of Trustees forms – under one, Invest Bank in bankruptcy (and we know who pushed it into bankruptcy), a total recognised claim in all currencies - over one billion US dollars. I'm reading the official data contained in the court files. Under two -- the Belgrade Bank, a total recognised claim in all currencies of 180m dollars; then Yugoslavia, a total recognised claim in all currencies of $24m; NIS Energogas - 910m dinar; ZTP Belgrade - 551m dinar; Tehnogas Belgrade - 275m dinar; EPS Belgrade - 237m dinar; NIS Jugopetrol Belgrade - 183m; NIS Novi Sad - 122m; Metalex Belgrade - 99m; Danube Insurance - 74m; Deferko - 64m; PIO Fund - 470m, Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia - 44,685,000. It was Sartide's debts, ladies and gentlemen, when the bankruptcy proceedings were launched. How did the bankruptcy process end? In an extremely suspicious and illegal way. Sartide was sold for 23 million. Let's see how that, at least formally, is a legal opportunity to do damage to the state for over two billion dollars. A bankruptly larger sea before the sale decision to consult with the trustees. When it comes to three banks that I have just read, Investbanka -- a billion dollars, the Belgrade Bank -- 180m dollars and the South Bank -- 24m dollars since they are in bankruptcy, consent must be given by some sort of deposit insurance agency, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. And look at the wonders, Miroljub Labus, then vice president of the federal government for economic matters, gives consent to Sartid being sold for $23 million in Ju-Es Steele, in the name of Investbanka, to which Sartide owes a billion dollars. Let's look further, the same agency, the same signature of Miroljub Labus -- on behalf of the Belgrade Bank in bankruptcy that for 23m dollars, Sartide owes that same Belgrade bank $180m. It's the same story when it comes to Jugobank, with Sartide being sold for $1 million cheaper. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you -- while such a team is in a more or less-changed or unaltered configuration in power, who would be crazy to vote for one of these laws? I'm very interested in what faces have been connected, which have affected these four banks in bankruptcy for the last year. I will not be surprised if it is Vojin Lazarevic, Vuk Hamovic, Nikola Zivanovic, who are again connected to Mladjan Dinkic. It won't surprise me at all, and more and more I believe so. (All along the speech of MP Veroljub Arsic, the MPs of the SRS group were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10529	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10530	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a good thing we had a chance to hear such a fundamentally reasoned amendment. It is clear to you, too, and it is clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia how much my heart bleeds when I need to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Don't laugh, now you'll see how serious this is. The government of the Republic of Serbia has given a very good answer on this amendment. You know that he has submitted two amendments to Article 2. First he asked for article 2 to be deleted, so he pulled it back, and then he asked for some innovation with this second one. There is no better evidence than this amendment to protect tycoons and criminals. Do you understand what I'm saying? You suggested extending the deadline for the connected persons to ensure that bankruptcy and liquidation would make sense because of the creditor's bankruptcy, and the principle is that a creditor should be preserved. Here, an amendment is required to end these connected persons in a court of law, and in order for bankruptcy to, in the end, be unfair to the creditors of bankruptcy. You asked for an extension of the deadline, he asked to delete that deadline for a year. Right? That's right. So, I'm very objectively speaking from this pay phone, when I'm supposed to commend you, I commend you, when I'm supposed to embarrass you, I'm pitting you. I wish that deadline was two years, so let's see what those faces are. Let me translate that now, because I'm getting a little bit more worried about these government guys than I need to. Now you'll figure it out. "Amendman is rejected for the reason that the law accepts a general deadline for the killing of legal actions within six months before the date of the legal consequence of the bankruptcy proceedings, and if the transactions are carried out with related persons, the deadline shall be extended by one year." Is that in the function of protecting trustees? Yes, it is. Is it our task to fight objectively for righteousness? Yes, it is. Is that what we need to support? That's what's in your proposal. And what was he looking for? That's exactly what to erase. Right? If that's deleted, what's left? Six months. Why is he looking for six months? That these tycoons, those who bought them cars, future arms dealers, who funded the coming to power (slowly, the story has its happy ending, don't worry)... Yes, the tycoons are also influencing that agency. You're the new composition of that agency. There were all kinds of people there, and Kolesar was there, remember? And Labus was, and Vesna Ginić. You know what these guys are, you know how they end up. But then it'll open up. That's what you're gonna open up. You need to open it. As you need to open and pay compensation for the damages of the National Assembly, for prisons, etc. It's not closed yet, you know. It can't be closed. What are the banks' faces? Well, he regulated the Banks Act. Right, Madam Minister? The law on banks regulated what connected faces were. The bank in its business has a specific relationship with related persons. And the Company Act, as you now call it, on companies, also has special provisions on business with connected persons. To avoid confusion, a good example of business with connected persons is BK. Remember? A good example of business with connected persons is some of the shut down insurance companies. Just to remind you, some insurance companies ran in books the value of a square meter of living space and at 20,000 euros. Of course, it was all fiction, accounting, to show the position of the insurance company and conceal money laundering and cash withdrawal. That's why they're interestingly connected faces. And it's very hard to get into it. He can't have a bankruptcy manager, a liquidator in six months to get into all those variations. Like I can't get into all the variations of those items of yours. Not yours, Mrs Dragutinović, but it was invented by Djelic, what -- by contract services, you know, that they weren't material costs. And they weren't contract favors, just so you know. Part of the material costs, but they weren't special classifications. We'll be in control in a few months in court, remember. Since they're running a trial against me for some books, now we're going to bring out all the books. I forgot this book, Vukcevic, but I'll get back to you later to explain it. ) So, connected faces, in order for their influence, their business with the bank to be seen, as these jobs are done perfiduously, there must be deep control. Because a connected person can also appear as a trustee and report his claim, and it is possible that a bank in regular business has sucked out capital through a connected person, artificially created insolvency. There, look how someone's fighting for tycoons. And then here comes the story, more or less a good story. It's really for condemning what happened with Sartide, and not to order these other privatisations. But the privatisation of Sartida, or the bankruptcy of Sartida as a business society, has nothing to do with bank bankruptcy. It has to do with the fact that banks appear as creditors, but it wasn't necessarily the bank's bankruptcy, it was the bankruptcy of the company, the steel company. But what's it worth? When a man doesn't know the difference between a secretary and a computer, he can make things like this. Well, he doesn't know anything. ) But the applicant of the amendment was the second person empowered to sign a report on the financing of the election campaign. And as soon as Nikolic burned, the first to sign, he immediately set the second one on fire. And bring the accountant. Now we've lost the financial sector in the party. Isn't that a symptom to you, Mrs. Diana? Doesn't that smell like some kind of crime to you? Yeah, but then we'll figure it out. In the quiet fire we'll roast them, don't worry. Slowly, with pleasure, mic by mic. Now 2%, then the next time 2%, to detail them, you know, like when a pixel is shut down, not only does it shut down, but it still has to turn around. That's how it's gonna be done. Now let's figure some things out. [[Applause]] Due to the specificity of banking business, as a bankruptcy manager, the liquidation manager (this, in the end, comes down to the same, there are only some minor differences), and when it comes to voluntary liquidation, and when it comes to temporary liquidation, and when it comes to bankruptcy, it is all, in principle, the same - leading to the disappearance of the bank. That's the consequence. That's what the agency has to do. Why? Because nobody else specializes in that kind of work. However, from the point of view of the procedure, it is absolutely unacceptable that these bankruptcy proceedings take so long. When I say bankruptcy procedures, I mean liquidation, and bankruptcy, etc. What they cost, that's another dimension, but also for judgment. Why? Because in the meantime, there's a lot going on with the property. I know you're not a fan of what's been going on with the National Savings, I know you're not. No one is in favor of what happened with the National Savings, no one is in favor of even the inn that somehow came into the state National Bank of Serbia and then was given to banks, etc. There's that story about hiring bank employees. It's a fictional story. It's a story without cover. Apparently, they gave business space to a foreign bank, and it took over the obligation to hire a number from the SDK, etc. It's a very empty story, to be honest. Some specificities exist in this bankruptcy procedure. It must take longer than when it comes to the bankruptcy of a normal company, but not as long as it takes, to be clear. Why? Because then we practically don't have a balance, we don't have a draw, and all of our banks that are... Look, this law has two dimensions -- existing bankruptcy and future bankruptcy. I think you've done this more because of future bankruptcy. Because by the logic of things, from the day the law was passed, so the law began to apply, and even that provision that was amended, it cannot be retroactively applied, it should not, it is forbidden. However, there is a clear message here. I just don't know how much this agency is gonna be able to do the job according to this message. Here we have one message that is legal, as far as this member is concerned, which is acceptable, and we have another message, from the point of view of the practice he will be. If practice is to play what's the idea of the law, then we're doing the wrong thing, to be honest. How much control do you have over the Agency that for the future liquidations and bankruptcys of these names that have come to us can carry out what is now changing? If you can do that, thank you very much. If you can't provide that kind of efficiency for the Agency, then we're really doing this for free. Because we're just going to send a message that this law protects depositor claims, banks, and in practice it's going to turn into something completely different. And then this provision on putting and connected persons into this process will act as encouragement to citizens, and in practice it will turn into the opposite. I doubt the Agency's abilities, that she can be so operational that she can finish these jobs. Uncomparable will be easier work when it comes to existing banks, compared to the Belgrade Bank, etc. Because the starting position is clean with these banks, from the point of view of books. As dirty as she is from the point of view of founding capital, that's another dimension. All these banks are pro-forms based on foreign capital, something from Vienna, something from Sarajevo, something from here, something from there. In the first year of business, they build that capital and pay back the money to the one that allowed them to start the bank. At least that's how it was with Raiffeisen Bank, the first to come here. So this extension of the deadline we support if you can finish it. If you can't finish it, then we're changing this regulation for free. That's what I wanted to say about this amendment. And if anyone comes out and tells you that an amendment has been submitted to end the connected faces within six months, tell them to swear. I doubt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10531	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, you have two more minutes within your time for your amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that the previous speaker did not understand the essence of my amendment very well. We, who don't distinguish some things, as he said it, here distinguish what a year ahead and what a year ago is. That's what Mr. Krasic's problem is, which he didn't tell the difference. Because this isn't about shorter deadlines than when the bank's bankruptcy and winding-up takes place in six months, but it's about retroactive deadlines - a year ago, that if someone signed a bankruptcy contract, they don't have the right to apply that contract in liquidation. It's a problem that someone doesn't know what's gonna happen in a year and what's happened a year ago. But that's not my problem right now. As for accounting and the financial sector in the party, I know there's a little problem, but I'm not worried. He has SRS and Zoran Krasic, he will solve the problem. (All the time the presentation of MP Veroljub Arsic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10533	Replica, Mr Krasic, and then Željko Tomic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10534	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you probably have this bill on you. I don't know how to explain this. A man can't read. It's all well written. It's not the business that's been canceled since the day of the bankruptcy, it's the year ahead, it's the year ahead. That's what the law says, aman. And the lawsuits when they are filed in bankruptcy proceedings refer to legal transactions prior to the opening of the bankruptcy. But what does a man know? Poor guy, looking for a sponsor, etc. Now I remember this book. You see, the War Crimes Prosecution has issued monographs, on extremely high-quality paper, with lots of pretty pictures. The character gallery -- whoever you put your finger on, you can charge him. You want Vukčević, Stankovic, Dilparic, Karl del Ponte... Madam Finance Minister, I ask you – does the Government of the Republic of Serbia know about this monograph? The publication of the monograph enabled the OSCE Mission in Serbia, with the financial support of the Dutch Embassy. Hey, the Netherlands won't allow us to go to Europe, but it allows Vukcevic to experience himself by spitin' in Serbia and Serbs! I understand everything about Vukčević, but I am now interested – which budget items have paid for the expenses of this book? Don't you get it? I'm reading your rebalancing - The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, Division 58, looking at salaries, watching this, watching it, there's some services by contract, five million on the side, 1,800,000 originally from the budget, a total of 94 million for this year, for the next year, Madam Minister, you planned 107 million for him. Is this spent on purpose? Look out, half is in Serbian, half is in English. Pictures, there are also printing works, the circulation is only 1,000 copies, says this: coma design, photo Aleksandar Andzic, publisher of the war crimes prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia. Since when do they have registered publishing activity? How can they be publishers? I'm going to need it for this procedure of mine that leads to some books collected by Laza Kostic. They're running a case against me, they say I've been doing something unintentional. I don't know what that was about. Let's check this out and compare it. That I'm a little prosecuted by the War Crimes Prosecution Department for purposeless spending of funds. Otherwise, I'll be chasing a lot more of them. I am collecting documentation for the purposeless spending of funds for all those who paid from the budget's position for the Miss's "start for the Property", those billboards, to see if there is a precise budget item that can "start for the Property", remind Vlahovic, he was a minister at the time. So, let go of what he's saying, don't believe anything, he's a good member.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10535	According to the amendment, Mr. Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10536	The President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Honored Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as regards this amendment, is the position 2 in Article 11, where he says: "Legal affairs and legal actions referred to in Article 1 of this article may be refuted if they are carried out within six months before the date of the legal consequence of the bankruptcy proceedings, and within a year if these transactions are carried out with a connected person." My question is, what has happened to the connected faces so far, and why is this deadline extended for a year? Why, as the previous speaker put it, can't depth control be done in six months? In my opinion, trustees are protected without this amendment. In an explanation of the amendment and addition of this article of the law, it reads that "the deadline for the killing of legal transactions and legal actions which the creditor has placed in a more favourable position of individual creditors in the sense of the law governing the bankruptcy of companies now six months a year if these transactions are carried out with a connected person". This isn't an explanation, it's no explanation, it's just a definition of what's written. So it's just that the same thing with two or three words more than the amendment and the addition of the law itself, and there's no explanation. It is also interesting to read the reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure. "The reasons for this law" stands here, "by emergency procedure... result from an examination of the current problems on the financial market and the need for adequate regulation of the conditions and modes of operation of all market participants as well as enabling the adequate response of regulatory bodies. This law, and in accordance with the EU Directives, puts this area in a more stable, more precise and consistent regulatory framework that will form part of a set of measures that mitigate the consequences of the crisis in the financial market." These are all general places. There are no concrete sentences here in terms of – what does it mean to look at current problems on the financial market? Our people were always funny, they made sense of a joke, so now a joke or a joke is being passed on the streets of Serbia, so they ask you on the street - what's a'secca'? And you don't know, so they say - the global economic crisis. Governor Radovan Jelasic told us that this "sect", the global economic crisis, has not yet knocked on our door. I hope there's some "bath" in the world that's gonna fit on that "sec" tail, but I'm afraid we have another "secu" and that's the Serbian economic crisis. I think that such general places, general phrases, or administrative and not developmental measures, as we have mentioned here many times, this government will not be able to deal with either the Serbian economic crisis or the global economic crisis. The government's activity comes down to a kind of commentary of world economic flows, the global economic crisis, a kind of voyeur role, where there's always talk about some kind of emergency and effective measures, and then it leads to absurdity by all the fact that certain laws, like the ones we talked about yesterday and the one we're talking about today, will not take effect on the eighth day of publication, but the next day. Now these seven days will speed up the solution to the problem and influence it in the most favourable way possible? It really doesn't have anything. Yesterday we talked about the Deposit Insurance Agency, it says who are members of the board of directors, but it doesn't say anything that the Secretary of State should be on that board. But well, these are the things that come to the heart of this government of the Republic of Serbia. About pensions not to talk about broken promises. The government will have no answer as to why the citizens have withdrawn so much money from banks throughout Serbia and to which they will respond. When we talk about bank bankruptcys and liquidations, it's worth reminding, and yesterday's daily presses reminded us of a fantastic case, one of what it says is a conducting bankruptcy. It's Beobank, where no one's questions are answered today. In Deligradska 16, 1,566 square square meters of Beobanka space in the summer of 2003, the famous Nemanja Kolesar leased the justice ministry at a price of one and three euros per square. As the then director of the Deposit Insurance Agency, the collector did so to his political equalist, Minister of Justice Vladan Batic, because the Ministry of Justice had obtained the space, but by today-day, it means after more than five years, there is no public record of this case and it would be correct for the minister to come out and say what was happening then and what is the situation today. Is the tenant still in that space and is he paying the rent? Also, employees in Beobanca can't be surprised today, which is why such an object was leased at extremely low prices, especially because they remember their emigration well in 2003. An employee in Beobanca testifys: We remember, it seemed like a war situation, as if we were near the front line. We carried things out running around day and night until everything was empty. No one had an answer to why it was done like that. No one was allowed to ask anyone who ordered it. Just imagine how much documentation has been made. There was a back-to-back in the trucks. We don't know where. We don't even know where all that paperwork is today. Pedantic real estate and finance experts came up with a frantic data -- that this building has been rented since 2003 at real rental prices, to this day the tenant would have included almost a million euros. There was no control. The agency that was supposed to control it, or Necessa Kolesar, certainly did not do it because it probably had a certain calculation in it. The question is, who and why is it keeping all the information on the bankruptcy of Serbian banks? Are the Serbian banks' bankruptcys transparently presented to Serbian citizens and will the'secka' then, I mean the Serbian economic crisis, be able to adequately place itself in the smallest possible position of one great'sec', which Governor Radovan Jelasic says is not until next year? Is that what we're prepared for? Pensions that are truly less, suspicious and never-determined bank bankruptcys that remain secret for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all of this atmosphere in which all this is done does not promise anything good. The worst government I remember for my life is this, and I don't see that I can answer any of these questions, but not all of these challenges that are waiting for us, as in next year, when we are told publicly that we can't live better, and the pre-election promises have said something completely different, some 200,000 new jobs, and we already have thousands of old jobs, we have an open lie about the raise of pensions and similar things to dozens, not to say that already that number of frauds has arrived and a three-digit number. This government didn't deserve anything but to leave, which we'll explain better at the next session than these days, and these days the opposition has quite rationally and reasonedly said, rightly, that this government doesn't deserve a long life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10537	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bank and insurance companies' bankruptcy and liquidation laws. I proposed in the amendment that the "Minister in power" in Article 3 be replaced by the words "Minister in power". I'll quote Article 3(2). Proposal for a Law: "The Minister responsible for Finance Affairs prescribes the basics and criteria for determining the prize for the work and compensation of the real costs of the Agency for the performance of the business of the bankruptcy manager". In an explanation of the amendments, I stated: "According to the position of the SRS, according to the positive laws of the Republic of Serbia, the ministry, as a state body, has the right to adopt generals, while this is not the right of the Head of State. "The Government of the Republic of Serbia, or those who have looked at this amendment, rejected this amendment, with the following explanation: "Amendment is rejected for the reason that the Law on State Administration ('The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia', No.79/05 and 101/07) in Article 15 is laid down by the authorities of the State Administration, i.e. the Ministry and the Special Organization, which are the Rules, Regulations, Commands and Instructions, while the provision of Article 23 of the same law stipulates that the Ministry-led minister, representing the Ministry, adopts regulations and solutions on administrative and other individual matters and decides on other matters from the work of the Ministry." The principled attitude of the SRS is fully justified here. The Minister, i.e. the Head of State, is a person who is either relievable or able to resign himself, and the Ministry is a republican body that performs the tasks of the state administration. Under the Constitution and the law, the ministry, as a state body, exists according to the needs of the Republic of Serbia. It is also the view of the SRS that there should be no agencies, administrations and other special organisations within the ministry, and neither should the Agency for the conduct of the activities of the bankruptcy manager of the organisation. My question for the present representatives of the Ministry of Finance is – what will happen, how will the basics and criteria for the work and expenses of the Agency for the performance of the business of the bankruptcy manager be prescribed, who will submit the mentioned actions if the minister resigns, if the government replaces him or is on long-term leave? It could take a long time to elect a new minister. There are certain jobs, such as the business of a creditor, who does not suffer a delay, which should be resolved quickly, so a much more comprehensive solution is provided for by my amendment, or by the Serbian Radical Party, to replace the word "minister" with the words "supervisory ministry". I hope you'll accept this amendment in voting day and vote for it. With my explanation, I will try to convince you, reminding you of the events of January 2002, when Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic liquidated four of Serbia's largest banks and thus not only destroyed Serbian banking and left thousands of Serbian citizens without bread and work, but also humiliated the Ministry of Finance with their actions. After the petooctobar revolution, the dosoval government did nothing for a year to solve the problem of major state banks, and then, suddenly, a conducting liquidation of banks is being conducted. What particularly irritated all Serbian citizens and not just those employed in banks is that some pre-written scenario first talked about bank recovery, then nothing was done to spread the public story that four of Serbia's largest banks would be liquidated at the end of the year in January 3rd 2002. Self-proclaimed reformers have resolutely denied that banks under pressure from the IMF and the World Bank will be liquidated, arguing that it is a charm story. However, the day ahead of the liquidation (which was January 5th), meaning on January 4th 2002, they appeared dressed in black, leading self-called reformers, to bury national banking. The Board of the Agency for Rehabilitation of Banks (means not the ministry, but the Agency) proposed that the NBJ open a bankruptcy against the Belgrade Bank, Yugoslavia, Invest Bank and Beobank. At the time, President of the Trade Unions of Financial Organisations Milan Alimpijevic announced, addressing Investbank workers, that their request for bankruptcy is to be terminated and that a moratorium be introduced to the closure of banks until further notice. Workers have asked for expert groups to be formed that will first analyse the legal situation in banks, while doing the concept of Serbian banking. Mladjan Dinkic said "the bankruptcy procedure cannot be interrupted", and Bozidar Djelic said it is "the only possible solution, because the government does not have 8.3 billion marks for the recovery of Serbian banking". The then federal minister, in the SRJ, Jovan Rankovic stressed that the situation is dramatic, with inconceivable consequences. The Bank Rehabilitation Agency was to organise serious discussions, make a serious analysis of each bank in particular and determine the possibility of resolution, as well as all aspects of possible bankruptcy. Since 10 January 2002, the service of current accounts, giro accounts and dinar savings accounts has been taken over by the Post Office, whose beginning of work was glamorously marked by no one but Mladjan Dinkic. At that time, he said that the liquidation of banks is a painful but best solution. The SRS asks – for whom is the liquidation of banks painful, and for whom is the best solution? The best solution is most likely for Mr Dinkic and for G17 plus, and painful for citizens' families who have lost their jobs. Dinkic and Djelic were most likely blackmailed "with further support for reforms". The banks were sacrificed, and they didn't do anything serious about it. The Dosovo-Democratic Authority is obedient and day-to-day. They carry out the orders of the Western mentors. They are not interested in our national banking, they are not interested in the national interests of Serbian citizens. They fear for their position at the international administration. That is why they have also brought third-rate banks, which collect foreign savings at a rate of 2-5% per year to place these funds at 15-17%. Wasn't it logical that state banks had government budgets in their deposit? It seems, dear citizens, dear viewers, that it is not. For dosovic self-proclaimed reformers Djelic and Dinkic, it was logical to liquidate state banks without serious analysis of independent experts, four of them, which covered 80% of the rankings of major economic systems. For them, it was logical to release these companies from real debt and then sell them out to foreign mentors. At that time, cement plants and hundreds of thousands of square meters of business space were sold out at the best locations in Belgrade and Serbia. Also today, the G17 personnel plus rule Serbian banking. Although the Serbian Bank has been operating for six months with a loss of 25m dinars, the managers of the financial institutions do not feel the effects of the economic crisis. On the contrary, the management of the bank, according to the employee's statement, receives a salary in advance. You heard right - advance! Bank workers claim that a member of the Executive Board has already received a salary of over 400,000 dinars four years back, other members of the Bank's Executive Board earn about 300,000 dinars a month, 13 sector directors have 220,000 dinars, and their assistants on average about 150,000 dinars. In the end, I have to mention another one of the blackmails of Western mentors. National Bank of Serbia Governor Radovan Jelasic said a few days ago that the possibility of joining state-owned banks is foreseen as one of the key options in a contract with the IMF. I think the Ministry of Finance and the Government would have to deal with this issue, because it's not just about the minister or the governor, it's about the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10539	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. National MP Dragan Šormaz answered the word immediately after the announcement of the word of Parliament of People Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. People's MPs get the word in the order they apply for a debate in particular. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, unlike the Minister, speak to you, since last night's minister, I have here a stenogram of her complete speech, on two occasions saying that what she's saying from the pay phone is not because of us as MPs, but because of the public. I would remind her that she (we already know it) is a minister, and the word of the minister is in the original meaning of the people's servants, and the MPs, or as it used to be said in Serbia, are representatives of the people. They're for you people. So the only public you address is 250 MPs of the National Assembly. But well, since you're DS, and that "know how" approach, you think it's all marketing. I can simply understand that, but please, for this reason, if we already want European values, that as a minister you respect the National Assembly in the way that the National Assembly deserves it, because it is a term of national will, whether someone likes it or not. All parties that have entered here with their representatives are expressions of national will and must be respected. On the other hand, I think the chairman will appreciate this, better than reporting to the Rules of Procedure. Of course I'll talk about the amendment, but it's all about what we're talking about. For example, here I was looking at, I don't know if there was a colleague who was talking about this amendment or the Secretary General of the National Assembly, because RTS was reporting here from the O.R., where he was talking. I would like to join the invitations of MPs saying that citizens should watch the broadcast if they want to be well informed. Let them not look at the accounts, let them pay attention not to them, but to what is said about the congregation speaker. Because if you're going to watch the reports, last night the RTS report said that by December 31st, the National Assembly would not adopt everything that was mandatory, especially the apostrophe of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We all know that there is a law to be passed on to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If the Rules of Procedure is under what the Constitutional Law says - and other acts, if the other acts are more important than the law, then I really don't know what the Public Service is doing. In fact, it joins the manipulation by the ruling majority, which speaks of obstruction of the opposition, although we do normally, according to the laws. Is it our fault the government is proposing bad laws here, so amendments to these bad laws are being made? After all, it is the work of the MPs of the people. So it turns out that the alleged bad Rules of Procedure is running late. For forty days, the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the competent minister, was late with the draft budget, and now I come to this amendment, and instead of the same Public Service, as a real public service, warned the government every day that it was late with the draft budget... Not with the budget, because the government does not bring the budget, the government only brings the draft budget, the National Assembly brings the budget. It's so everywhere, in all the modern, democratic states in the world. All those who wish to undo the importance of the National Assembly and to bring it down to the country's executive power, as a legislative authority and as a legislative branch, are not actually Democrats, so they can have a prefix democratic in front of the party's names as much as they want. And that way, it will not lead Serbia into the EU, nor will Serbia accept us like that. Why am I saying that, although we often support the amendments, this amendment to the honourable Parliament of Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, we from the DSS, will not support it? Because we think the words "minister in charge" instead of "minister in charge" should stand right now. Some of these things I said before, which may have been thought to have nothing to do with the amendment, which they do, because you need to know who's responsible and individually. Yesterday in my speech, I asked the camera to record the current chairman of the Deposit Insurance Agency's Management Board, just so we knew who the man was. There was even yesterday to say how much compensation there was for that place. In my opinion, it is not big, I even agree with Mr. Krasic that it is such a serious and responsible job that it seems to be a small fee. If he wants to do business seriously, he should have a better fee. Just in case, to know who the man is and to know who's responsible. The collective responsibility for me has never personally been acceptable. If we write that the ministry is in charge, that's where we can find a way out of the situation again. He may be guilty of a certain mistake by some referent, some secretary at the ministry. It may also be the assistant minister, it may turn out to be a media manipulation, and it appears that the people of this government are inclined to do so, that it is not the minister's fault. No, it's better that it says the minister is in charge. When he's in charge, he's responsible for both good and bad. Therefore, according to the DSS, we should not accept this amendment. We've never accepted an amendment like this before. Okay, we respect the view of the SRS of the whole thing, but we think that individual responsibility must be and must be known who is responsible for what, who is responsible for what, and that no one must at any time hide behind the collective responsibility of an organ, in this case of the ministry. Since I come from Smederev, about this law and the banks, a colleague has already read that Sartid is at the moment of bankruptcy... Otherwise, there is today, besides the existence of Ju-Es Steel Serbia, here, for the fifth year, and the Sartid company in bankruptcy, as a legal person. I don't know if all the MPs knew that. We in Smedereva have a huge problem with Sartide in bankruptcy. We also have Ju-Es Steele because of environmental pollution and because we don't know what the deal is. Believe it or not, that contract was not found in the government. Let the Minister make sure she finds him. Mladjan Dinkic failed to find him. Mladjan Dinkic publicly stated that he failed to find a contract to buy "Ju-Es Stila", a contract he made, whether the Commercial Court in Belgrade, the Commercial Court, as it was then called. The state and the Ju-Es Steel -- that contract absolutely does not exist in the government. Minister Ilic and Minister Dinkic both sought him at the time and did not find him. That's why we're in Smedereva. We've got a lot of problems. Sartid is now in bankruptcy owned by some country, some land, some space that is in the center of town, the bankruptcy manager of the team has it, he sells it. And do you know how Sartid came to, not even property, but rights to use certain parcels in the city? In the center of town, we have a rowing club, where sports clubs are located, with a very nice plot next to the Danube which is obviously tempting. The bankruptcy manager tried several times, but whoever was at the local government in Smederev managed to stop him. He was trying to sell that part and move out sports clubs and rowing club, which is one of the oldest and most famous in the country, which has given many representatives and medals to our country. It's all radically done, both for Sartid and for the banks. Remember the other day, when we were talking about the courts, I said that Smederevo should have and had to have a business court. He is for Smederjev economic operators in Pozarevec, although the Podunavski district... Of the 10 biggest exporters, there are three from the territory of the Danube County in Serbia, one among them is the "Ju-Es Steel". Why is this business so suspicious about Sartid? It was transferred from the jurisdiction of the Trade Court in Pogorevc to the jurisdiction of the Trade Court in Belgrade, and then the investment bank, which owed billions of dollars, remained short sleeves and liquidated, the Belgrade Bank - 180m dollars, South Bank - $24m, etc. "Sartid" was sold, I said, for only 23 million dollars, although "Diloit and Touch", the famous house that evaluated NIS -- I'll remind you, with an estimate in December that the price of crude oil on the world market would be 130 dollars, it fell to almost $40, it was such a good estimate of what would happen in December -- and then it was calculated that NIS is worth two billion euros, instead of 50%, and then a billion dollars and a hundred, and then based on that, it was a fictional story of 400 million euros as a small price for NIS, but I guess that's what we've been through. But this same "Dilloit and Touch" estimated the value of "Sartida" at $470m and sold for $23m. As far as I'm concerned, he could've been sold for one dollar, he didn't have to for this 23 million dollars, but someone had to take care of these debts. Believe it or not, all these debts have been transferred to the public debt of the Serbian state, to each of us, each citizen of Serbia has individually transferred debts and plus these four banks have been liquidated. One of the reasons is quite certain and the pressure that has been put in such a way, through bankruptcy proceedings, not tenders, "Sartid" sells "Ju-Es Steele", because "Ju-Es Steele" has had great competition in some other companies in the world. We ourselves know that late Prime Minister Djindjic made his first trip as Prime Minister to Germany, Tisen Krupu, and that he was just discussing the sale of Sartida "Tisen Krupu". There was an Indian company based in London, which is far stronger than the Ju-Es Steele on the world steel market, interested in participating in the tender and buying a modern steel store. Otherwise, she won the Ju-Es Steel in the tenders in Poland and Bulgaria, and in the years of iron competitions. So all this stuff that happened around Sartide is very suspicious. And the liquidation of these banks and how the sale was done. It's absolutely certain that our banks were liquidated to create space for these other banks that came from abroad, because who would... If the Invest Bank were to manage through the sale of "Sartida" to charge at least half of what Sartid owed her, or the Belgrade Bank, which could certainly have charged these 180 million dollars that it was done in a transparent, real way, or that they were involved in the sale of Sartida, we certainly wouldn't have this situation in the banking sector today. We would certainly have domestic strong banks, or already privatised by some foreign banks, but with a much stronger position and a much stronger impact on economic developments and markets in Serbia. This is how it comes in 2009, the economic crisis on Serbia is overrun. Although some ministers in the government said they'd bypass us, they're not bypassing us. There's a problem. It expires 15 minutes, I just wanted to ask – how much does Kragujevac flag owe to some banks? Does the flag of Kragujevac owe that way? Whether banks will also because the state is now becoming an entrepreneur and investing money to make a deal with the "Fiat", and "Fiat" sends 48,000 workers to an emergency holiday in Italy, we will see what will end up from that job. We find this government really difficult to resist the challenges we have, regardless of that inspired speech by the minister last night, which I recall did not address us. I would ask her to address us in the future, whether we know something or not, because we are not important here, 250 of us, but is an important institution of the National Assembly, which we all have to keep, and ministers, and MPs, and the most MPs, I agree, and the Public Service, and the media, if we want to have a credible state and if we want to go seriously into the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10541	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to banks, when it comes to Pancevo Business Bank, which is under the authority of the Secretary of State, where the chairman of the Management Board... I asked for a notice, I'd ask him not to defend himself with silence because he's not guilty. He who is silent, he is guilty, and he who is not guilty, he says, he defends himself at least. And you have no reason to. Are you going to prosecute a robbery at the Pance Bank of Panchevo? Please, I am speaking to both you and the finance minister, it is not appropriate for you to come before the MPs and sit down, and by your will and choice you come out to answer a few questions. These are representatives of the people and of Serbia, here, sitting here. Then you are obliged to go out and answer – will you initiate criminal proceedings since the bank has established a proper criminal procedure? Not just pay them back and fine them, because that's not appropriate. When someone steals a bike worth five-six thousand dinars, he goes to court and answers criminally, and this one here, which is along with his group... 13 million dinars from Pancevo Bank were taken on behalf of the executive board. Well, someone has to answer for that. Furthermore, when it comes to the Belgrade Bank, and these four banks, I would just like to ask you -- is it true that the cost of bankruptcy goes up to a billion dinars, to four banks, or not? I'd like you to give an answer. In fact, the total costs of separate bankruptcy proceedings in three banks, Investbanks, Jubanci, without the Belgrade Bank (only available for the first six months of this year) were back seven years, by the end of 30 June 2008, over 3.5 billion dinars, of which the burden of their bankruptcy amounted to 1.233,000,000. According to a projection of Belgrade Bank's 2008 bankruptcy costs of more than 140m dinars, the total seven-year bankruptcy costs are estimated to be at least at the level of other banks' costs that exceed a billion dinars per year. Is this true or isn't it? - I ask you to give an answer to the Assembly, so that we may ask a question – does someone control the bankruptcy managers and those bankruptcys, and the Ministry of Finance is responsible? Another question – will you put out of force this rule on the rewards and fees of bankruptcy managers? Please, it's a criminal code. Put it out of force, it's a national robbery! I didn't get an answer. Is it true that the bankruptcy manager in the name of Belgrade's bankruptcy received 460 million dinars? Please, those costs are enormous. Secondly, we don't get answers from the finance minister -- how much was the republican budget denied because mobsters owned hundreds of thousands of hectares of state land, and the state was damaged by tens of billions because no one controls the execution of a state land lease contract? The latest fashion is: he didn't pay, we're finishing the extrajudicial alignment, but the extrajudicial alignment doesn't involve the artist. Therefore, gentlemen, the budget is damaged, the state is damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10543	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament of the People, Mr. Jorgovanka Tabaković. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10544	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, citizens of Serbia, State Secretary and Madam Minister, we are talking about the draft law amending and supplementing the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation law and the insurance and amendment companies that I have submitted to Article 3(2), where the original text reads: "The Minister responsible for the affairs of finance prescribes the basis and criteria for determining the award for work and compensation of the actual costs of the Agency for the conduct of operations of the bankruptcy manager. "I asked the amendment to change the point with a comma after these words and add the words, "and give written consent to such certain rewards and compensations." In an explanation of why my amendment was rejected, I was told that the amount of the fee, i.e. the grant of a bankruptcy, i.e. the winding-up manager, prescribed by the minister, was confirmed by the decision by the bankruptcy, i.e. the liquidating judge in the proceedings. The key part of the argument is the note that the assets of the bankruptcy are not public funds, but belong to the creditors. In avoiding responsibility for rewards for bankruptcy managers behind heights, not just criteria, names and last names, arguments are drawn which, as well as many, are twice used. You're saying it's not public funds, it's trustees' funds. And whose assets are you when you want to go into banks by buying shares, without judicial protection, without criteria why do you buy the shares of some banks in which the state is no longer a shareholder? This is not the rule of respect for existing owners or creditors if a bankruptcy procedure is opened. Do you respect creditors when you determine an emergency procedure, interrupt the court, when you enter into the Deposit Insurance Agency Act the way we talked yesterday? Is that how you treat funds when, in 2002, by adopting the Public Procurement Act, you set a criterion for (I am in agreement), using works of public funds? Well, there's only 10% of them, so let's make it half of the board of directors of the state, the Public Procurement Act must be applied. I stand by that view that everywhere there is any percentage of state resources, public funds, the state has to ensure control of the use. Your story is that you defend yourself to the interests of the trustees and that you won't stop by your name and last name, or by your signature -- you stopped by your name and last name when you set the rules and criteria for the award, but you yourself know that it's not enough to prescribe the criteria. The experience with compensation for members of the Management and Supervisory Board in public enterprises and the director's salaries speaks sufficiently of recommendations and conscience not being sufficient. I can't not mention yesterday's information. It's good, Mrs Dragutinovic, that you said that Mr Ilic told you how much compensation he paid to the members of the Agency's Management Board. He probably told you the information that is adapted to the new criteria, that is, the government's recommendations, because the Agency would certainly not have had less salaries and fees than the Railways, which, according to this morning's information, has reduced the fees to members and led them to a naked republican average. If we have no information as to what your fees are at the Agency, which, by my court and by the SNS court, is the Parliament Club "Forward, Serbia", a cancer-related lack of control of the public funds of the Privatisation Agency and the Deposit Insurance Agency, why is there no one available with this information? You can't convince me that you're more modest than others and you can't convince me of that information, because the team that was in the vault, Mr Dinkic's team from the National Bank, the Treasury and the Privatisation Agency, is sitting on the Board of the Deposit Rehabilitation Agency day and day. It would be unusual if those fees were less than others, but I'm saying it's not enough to just set criteria and criteria, but you need to sign them yourself. Because when you determine how to pay taxes, as a state, for all users and taxpayers, why is there still a control of these funds? So there are ways of calculating, there are criteria, there are prescribed methods, there are accounting software, and yet it goes into tax control to see if the state belongs as much as it needs to be given by law. Why doesn't the state, on its own, show the same amount of responsibility to the spending assets, to sign advances on the level of compensation, because there aren't many of them to be applied to? How many banks and insurance companies there are - it's a negligiblely small number and you can't defend yourself by being buried in business. So, the legality of raising funds, the regularity of transport and the legality of spending are the basic postulates of state money management. In order for us to know that these postulates are respected, there must be public surveillance, but there must be control of responsible persons. Excess? Excessives never hurt your head. Since signing 30 solutions you would have had a peaceful dream, and we trust you that your criteria have been applied. What surprises me is that one part of the public and the MPs who sit here advocates that with a man the responsibility is to move to the institution. You know, one liquid, it's a civilized one, but that corporations, companies, companies and companies seem responsible in a criminal and legal sense, is actually very cleverly designed to protect the persons who actually represent that corporation. Corporate, you can't put a company in jail, you can't set a sentence that would fit any of her unconscious work. Corporations, churches, states -- it's just ideas. They are represented by very specific people, prone to abuses and those we must make responsible. In companies and in the state of profit, he always sits in front of his conscience and we can't count on that conscience. We must by law commit those who, on behalf of corporations, state and any organization, spend public funds, for which they account. It's simply that responsibility, in order for it to be more than rhetoric, that we must, by law, also specify the amendment that I have submitted, is exactly what it requires. So, the responsibility of the state for the costs, for compensation to boards, will remain at the level of rhetorical issues and responsibilities towards public funds if we don't define it by law. The feature of those who run the state is to actually create an illusion of their responsibility, but by tying it to the body and the institution, they actually avoid responsibility. In this regard, it is always important to assume responsibility for the compensation of board members, the salaries of bankruptcy managers, rewards and expenses for the costs incurred by a very specific person. When you sign a document on such a certain fee, you are no longer held accountable. Then comes the inspection bodies, the control authorities, who can determine the breach of the rules. So the minimum responsibility that is expected and implies in a state that doesn't have enough resources and that every dinar has to use and use as a good host is to adopt this amendment where the signature of 30 and some solutions really don't take up time for you, and to the citizens a lot of contributions. Because a state that talks about saving and calling for order, and by its doing, on the contrary, calls for chaos, like a law on an agency where you can buy the actions of any bank, without the law on banks, without judicial protection, doesn't call for order. One more part that's tied up, and I apologize for talking about the amendment that has already passed, but the favoring of the legal entity of the previous member, means doing things to those who are of the creditor... As soon as the bank is in bankruptcy, it must be checked that we never again experience the Post Office, destroying the Social Accounting Service and leaving business space free of charge or below any price because it is a matter of favouring creditors, or at the expense of creditors, and we have to start with such a practice once. We can't defend ourselves with bad practice, bad inherited state, history, but we simply have to start acting responsibly on every state dinar from these very important details. In that sense, I don't think it's really a problem to specify your personal good intentions to ensure control of the spending of funds that are public. Thank you. (All the time the speech of MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic, the MPs of the SRS, are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10545	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10546	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I consider the amendment to Article 3. The bill submitted by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic should be adopted. Namely, in Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Banks and Insurance Companies Act reads: "Article 16, after Article 2, paragraph 3, which reads as follows: 'The Minister in charge of Finance Affairs prescribes the basics and criteria for determining the Agency's real costs for carrying out the operations of the bankruptcy manager'." My colleague Tabakovic submitted an amendment to Article 3: "In Article 3 paragraph 2 at the end of the text, the text is deleted and the words are added: 'and gives written consent to such certain awards and fees'. I don't think it's enough for the finance minister to prescribe the criteria and basis for determining the rewards for the work of bankruptcy managers, but I think it should be given the authority to give written consent, thus exercising control over the spending of funds. Especially in a situation where the economic crisis is, when we all talk about the need to reduce public consumption and more rigorous public consumption control. I think that the Minister of Finance should be given this authority and that he should take responsibility in order to have more clear control over the spending of these funds in writing consent to these bases and criteria. In the principle debate on these three laws, I highlighted the importance of adopting these laws and laws on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act and to the Agency for Rehabilitation and Bank bankruptcy, but I think these bill proposals came too late. I would like to remind you that at the very beginning of this economic crisis, the DSS parliamentary group submitted its proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act. On 31 October, we submitted a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to monitor the global economic crisis and take measures to mitigate the negative impact on the economy and on the economy of the Republic of Serbia. On 6 November, we submitted a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax and on 13 November, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. When we submitted these legal proposals, many civil servants and officials said it was pure demagogy, that there was no need to pass such laws. Among others, Mr. Ilic, who sits here today defending the same bill, said it was not necessary. We think it was necessary, and this has proved to be because the government, but with a month late, referred these legal proposals. What happened in that month? Over a billion euros in foreign exchange savings and their deposits have been withdrawn by citizens from banks, and I think it has caused inconspicuous consequences to the banking sector and Serbia's economy at all. Also, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question, or ask for a notice, given that the Minister of Finance is present, and I would like to refer that question to the president of the Assembly. In fact, a group of 21 DSS MPs sent a written question 14 days ago asking us to submit a review of the receiving of the Republic's budget reached on 3 December 2008 compared to the receipts of the planned Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, by types of income, with an estimate of the achievement by the end of 2008 by the following elements: a review of the achievement of tax incomes by types of income, a special review of receipts classified as other non-tax revenue compared to the planned funds and a specific review of the receipts made from privatisation and from borrowing in the country and abroad. 14 days ago, we asked that parliamentary question, which until today we have not received an answer. In Article 200. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states that the answer to the parliamentary question is delivered within eight days, and extremely, if it is necessary to obtain certain opinions for which a longer period of time is required, it may be up to 30 days. However, the minister said in her address last night that such reports are on the finance ministry's website. We do not understand why you have not delivered the answer to our parliamentary question in writing, as you are bound by the Rules of Procedure of this congregation. I insist on that. It doesn't matter what publicly available data is, we asked in writing, and it is logical that we get written and answered, so that we can prepare ourselves for a debate on the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget, which follows. Because we need to see how the budget is being filled and whether these revenues are being made in accordance with the budget rebalancing plan. I guess, according to the information I have, that the budget is not filled with planned dynamics, and then the question and budget plan for 2009 -- are the real budgets planned for 2009 revenue. I would ask you, Madam Minister, as well as the President of the National Assembly, to get that answer as soon as possible so that we can prepare quality for the debate on the budget that is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10547	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10548	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens, for reporting to this amendment, I promised my DSS colleague, who is sitting in front of me, that I would pay her coffee that suffers from the noise of her head as representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party speak. I have submitted an amendment to article 5 of the law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. I'm asking for article 5 to be deleted. I ask that it be deleted because the bill promoter has exempt the application of the Law on the Agency for the License of Banks Managers. The amendment proposes a solution allowing the involvement of licensed bankruptcy managers in the procedures governed by this law. Respected citizens, in 2005, one of the most profitable jobs was - training licensed bankruptcy managers. I really don't see any reason for the state to get rid of the good services of a caste created both by law and by investing in considerable financial resources for their training. In an explanation of the refusal of my amendment to this law, the government says the Deposit Insurance Agency has been given the responsibility of the job, that it is engaged in the function of a bankruptcy or liquidation manager in banks and insurance companies. It is absolutely not contrary to the requirement not to exempt licensed bankruptcy managers, whose services are avoided here. There's probably a deeper reason why they should be denied their services. Licensed bankruptcy managers, such as the frequently mentioned Mr. Moldovan, who goes into quite certain tele-delegated bankruptcy, where he is mostly a government trustee who requires the opening of bankruptcy, due to taxes and contributions, are probably the reason that all stories, problems, stay in the house. It means that the documentation that is being entered, the knowledge that is being made, does not go into the hands of the special people that we have trained and passed the law, but that the information about it remains in this circle of people walking from 2000 to 2008 from the National Bank, through the Treasury, to the Privatisation Agency and the Bank Rehabilitation Agency, now deposit insurance. The names of these people have been repeated for eight years and never changed. In this case, they will be someone's employers for carrying out operations as a bankruptcy manager that the government does not want to entrust to licensed bankruptcy managers. Why does the state do that? For what reason? I'd like someone to explain it. In 2005, a well-known firm called Ces Mekon, probably known as the current prime minister's post, did a very nice example of training to pass a professional examination to obtain a bankruptcy manager's license. Do you believe me if I tell you that the first of the lectures is about the Bank's bankruptcy, recovery and liquidation laws? The basic law on which this training is based is the law on bankruptcy, recovery and liquidation of banks! Now, by adopting amendments and supplementing that same law, we deprive ourselves of the service of the people we have trained for that very purpose. I really don't understand what it means, what it's all about and why the same application of the bankruptcy law, which was later adopted, is avoided in this part of the job. Should it, according to that mob rule, make an offer to whoever you're ordering to do this job for you, make a vow of silence that he won't talk about what he found, how much he's charged, or did the liquidation directors embarrass themselves by asking themselves for a very high fee in many ways? But that's what you taught them. So, since 2001, when the World Bank wrote to you with an international contract on the World Bank's Trust Fund, which was ratified in the Federal Assembly, the Law on Privatisation, in which it drew each of the organisations to implement the Law on Privatisation, on which companies will privatise, in which procedure, who will be able to purchase financial and legal consultants, where the state of Serbia has lost the right to decide anything, but to ask, even in order to engage a consultant, from that point on, things have started to take place in a closed circle. If anyone thinks of contesting what I'm saying, that international contract number 11, I keep with me as the greatest indictment of this government, which has literally (not too much) led to these low-level branches of Serbian economy and Serbian banking since 2000. Such a way of imposing rules, in which banks are privatised by the cutting method, from case to case, where company bankruptcy is carried out in the way that it suits someone, so that the domestic market is cleared for someone's goods - it is really not appropriate to apply today. I really don't see that, for no reason, with that brutal insolence that has power, you suggest such a law, in which you accept that one whole caste, which was created by these instant trainings, actually worked not on the welfare of the state and the citizens, but on your own behalf, determining the fees you, I recall, taught them by this law. The international agreement envisions, in addition to all the costs of recruiting consultants, and rewards for the work of those who carry out the privatisation process. The award was later formalised by Mr. Bubalo through one regulation, where 5% of the privatisation fee is retained, as well as all the costs incurred in the privatisation process are first charged, and then the rest of the funding is transferred to the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, the habit of cultivateing greed as the most desirable feature, the greed that is elevated to virtue and paid by the 5% privatisation law, is probably also a motive for dispensing the services of liquidators that have the right to do so. The question is, who are you going to leave the reward for this job? We have asked the DDOR, which has already been privatised, the issue of that fee and it has not remained at 5%, but has been reduced, with the right to the Ministry of Finance decide on it. And it was something lower. But to what extent? And five times lower, but hundreds of millions of euros, that percentage, for which the ministry is tasked, the Agency to work? It's an example that's repeated with Citadel, which takes 1,600,000 euros as a commission for bringing in "Fiat". And that's so certain, we'll probably hear about it by March -- whether the Fiat will still have interest and financial opportunities to come here. But it is clear that "Citadeli" has already been paid, according to her recognition, 1,600,000 euros for a job that was praised by Mr Dinkic and for a promise in which good works and percentages of votes were received in the last republican elections. So it's amazing that you're passing laws that always show which intermediate group makes a commission. For example, in free action, it was those brokerage houses that would do jobs, to put it on condition that the stock administrator, which we'll be dreaming about for a long time, but they won't give up their income to do the administrative work. It will go to the burden of Serbia's budget, which seems to be still large enough to pay all those who promote one part of the government for the reformist, best, most successful, etc. Whenever a law comes in here, and only when you ask yourself, like in school, those basic questions, in whose interest is being brought and who will benefit from it, do you get a clear answer to the question that the government's motive for such legal solutions. It is obvious that the liquidators did not show goodness, not because they are too expensive, so you regret those companies or banks that are in bankruptcy and liquidation, but obviously did not know to be grateful enough to those who put them in those places, so you are trying to correct the mistake of keeping it within the Deposit Insurance Agency. And it's not right to call that house passive bodies because we know perfectly how much money it has and that, by law, there are people sitting in both the government and the National Bank, which makes their responsibility the most direct and very large. In that sense, I think Article 5 should be deleted and that those who have been trained to do bankruptcy and liquidation let them do so, and the state always has mechanisms to introduce their rewards, fees and bad practices into legal frameworks. Thank you. (All the time the speech of MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic, the MPs of the SRS, are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10549	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10550	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for the amendment by Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. I think this provision in Article 5 should be deleted. It seems to me that this law is happening in Serbia something that has already been seen. What has already been seen in Serbia? Something called the liquidation of four major banks was seen: Yugoslavia, Beobanke, Invest Banka and Belgrade Banka. It has already been seen and what was then called a financial coup on the state of Serbia. But when we talk about the details of this law, we can't help but think of some people and some names who participated in what was called a financial coup on the state of Serbia. Let's remember the name of No Kolesar, Janjusevic and others. Let's talk about this story because we're hinting through this so we can be witnesses of something again, and we'll see how we'll be witnesses of something like that. One example, the way of the bankruptcy manager of Beobanka, Mr. Negatno Kolesar. One of the procedures of the bankruptcy manager was to lease in the Deligrada Street premises of Beobanka, which is 1.556 square meters, at a price of several euros. Who? The Justice Department. And there was more room and space for those banks. What about the rooms on Alexa Nenadovic Street? What about the space on Branko Street? What's with the space on the Green Wreath? When that happened, then certain affairs began to surface. So during this famous period of the work of the bankruptcy manager Mr. Nemanje Kolesar (not to mention the party where he was, I think the citizens know it, as Mr. Moma Markovic says - 'Yellow Business') has happened to the gentleman’s bankruptcy manager, with such a rich job experience, affords himself to buy a modest little flat in Povarjevačka Street on Vračar. So besides him, there are some other people -- a little something, a little place, two to three hundred thousand euros. And there was a bank bankruptcy. The world is talking about one concept of certain agents who are serving various countries, so they seem to visit us very often. They're called economic killers. Isn't that right, Madam Minister? One of those economic killers is John Perkins. His remorse does not allow him to write a book explaining how the economic murder of developing countries and countries like our country is committed. So when you eliminate banks that can credit their state economy, then the state takes from major international corporations (usually American corporations, European Union corporations) will increase loans, but that money does not come directly to that country, but goes to those corporations that build industrial zones. And it all goes so well, especially if it's a media fine, idyllic -- a promised country, new jobs, new types of cars, wonders of God. Well, when it comes to paying, then the state can't pay for it anymore. Then these economic killers say this - since you can no longer service that kind of debt, then you will give up those resources that you live on. Here, we're slowly giving up. Let's see how many thousands of acres of our country in Vojvodina are given to foreign tycoons or corporations. If that doesn't work, then there's another echelon of economic killers. So governments, those governments that don't fit that kind of policy, are being torn down, but other types of governments are being installed that are decent, available and in the mood for this type of co-operation. When that is not possible, it resorts to the third method, and the third method is called war. Well, here's the answer to why that former state fell apart. Here, perhaps, and answers why our country was bombed in 1999 so unfeelingly. Here's an answer to what America is looking for in Iraq. Here's the answer. There wasn't a duck. There was a construction. They're those economic killers. And what are we doing? What kind of answer do we have to that kind of problem? Here, I'll tell you what the answer is. The government, formed by the U.S. and the British ambassador with the help of the tycoon, does so, takes us to slave duty, because there is no more bank that can lend its economy, because we have to borrow and because we have to sell out our resources. Economically responsible government, programme of the Prime Minister, new jobs, free health care, education, a country where honey and milk flow! What are these people doing across the street from the presidency, here at Andric's wedding, ten days under the tent? Out of anger in this cold, on the minus, they sleep in tents? Why are the unions announcing strikes? Because they're bored in their apartments? The employees receive high wages? Why are they announcing strikes? What did you promise them, and what did you keep from what you promised? The intention is one thing (and there is a bad intention in this government), the story is another (especially if all the media are in control), and reality and life are something else. This reality is seen on the streets every day and this reality is, unfortunately, very harsh for Serbian citizens. Every day the survival of this government costs this people. Every day of work by a government like this is a loss for Serbia. Every minute of this government's work is a new step in debt slavery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10551	National MP Momir Markovic, right to replication based on direct reference.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dimitrijevic mentioned me, and part of my statement was mistranslated. Mr. Dimitrievich, the first part, for the yellow company, is fine, but it's not the second part. I never said that Kolesar bought an apartment on the Wizard of money from the bank's bankruptcy. He bought the apartment from a bribe at the sale of the Popovac cement factory, and the bank's bankruptcy apartment was bought in Old Town, namely, built the whole building. So much for the record. I think the truth from this pay phone should be told even when the MP is wrong, I'm always there to correct it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10553	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in last night's address of the finance minister, we received information that the only possible aid to banks, the population, the economy -- in the purchase of actions and subsidisation of banks, the recapitalisation of banks, and, roughly, there is no longer any possibility of stabilising the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. I have to get to know the finance minister about certain moves and this country in earlier periods, and also in economic theory and practice we have a lot of methods, ways in which the crisis has to be handled by the state. In economic and financial terms, the state has to find solutions, and I'm going to count here in a practical sense how this country used to do that, in happy times, even in times of crisis. Not only do I get into the capitalization of the banking system, but again someone who's doing a very good job, because the crisis isn't in banking (is that what you said? ..... So don't invest in the banking system. Who's in crisis? Who's the most affected by the crisis? Citizens and economy. However, the current government has also raised its hands from the economy, working to shut down the economy, and, on the other hand, does not take care of citizens. We have to work too hard to help citizens, especially those who are out of work. How? In what way? Here, I'm talking combined, a little for the citizens, a little for the economy. By way of preferential loans. It's known in economic theory. From where? From the means you plan to recapitalize. You said you had funds in your budget. Oh, it's right out of those. Various loans, which will be at preferential interest rates – 2%.5%, 7%, well below inflation, to help. Who? It is extremely important not to fire workers, for liquidity, for the purchase of equipment, for the purchase of devices, etc. Further, tax breaks and releases. It is appropriate, when the economy is in crisis, it cannot single out taxes, contribute to helping in this situation in a way that frees them in part or in the whole of paying certain state obligations, taxes and contributions. Certain companies, which are developing, must take loans in order to complete a particular cycle. A certain system, which they have run, must lead to the end. Because of the economic crisis, it won't work. Those projects that last a few months, a few years, have to be completed. Because of the economic crisis, it will become impossible to complete the process and the state must jump in. The state must also see possibilities within... Not only financially, there are other ways to help, by reducing the price of various services. We have certain government-owned payments. To give construction payments to companies and institutions that want to develop, but because of the economic crisis, they cannot single out those funds. Let's see how to help them. Further, various reliefs in the payment of contributions. The state has to find a way to help. Not to be the only measure that the company, due to the inability to pay taxes and contributions, says a forced holiday for three months, six months, a year. The state has to find a solution there. We have a mutilated development fund. Five years ago, at the orders of European institutions, this fund was put aside. Instead of being a central fund for development, we turned it on banks, such as the neoliberal concept, the market concept of Western Europe and America. And we see that now he's cracked, that they're just patching him up and they can't patch him up anymore. They say they're working on a new concept now. Why are we wrong about that? The development fund must be the central leverage in the placement of funds. Whose funds? State funds. That fund has to be knocked up. From where? From the free resources of banks, from the free resources of the budget (free resources that we have in the budget in certain periods, and we have them), from various donations, from privatisation revenues, from bonds, etc. It must be a lever that will work on new employment. How much money does that fund have? Now I'm going to tell you, for 2006, that's about 15 billion, this year about 5 billion, so that's the Fund's funding. The second thing, it's being transferred through the Ministry of Economy 2-3 billion, etc. But it's a negligible little asset. Instead of pumping them up, inserting and fertilising the fund's capital, we basically put it aside. So in 2008, we're going through this... And in 2009, we don't even know what we're going to find in that fund. Instead of turning towards employment, and through this fund, we place funds and employ new labour, we almost shut it down. Those funds that went over it, placed in new employment, are negligible. Even the Privatisation Agency spent more on personal incomes, on various privatisation consultants, than it was placed in new employment. Investments through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development in Ski resorts are several percent higher than in employment. Then what are we talking about? On development, on new employment, on new perspectives in these areas, etc.? It's not gonna happen. The current government is doing nothing in terms of new employment. That's what the public needs to know. The neoliberal concept must be abandoned. You're encased in those directions that are drawn by an economic theory that's woven by that ideology. She has to leave. The West has left, and you must do it because there is no happiness in this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10555	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bank and insurance companies' bankruptcy and liquidation laws. Article 6 The bill is proposed by the proposer to amend Article 25 of the existing law. Article 25 reads: "If the National Bank of Serbia agrees to carry out the voluntary liquidation procedure, the procedure shall be conducted in accordance with the law governing companies. The legal consequences of the liquidation process arise from the date of delivery of the resolution of the National Bank of Serbia under Article 24(1) of this Act to the legal person. If the National Bank of Serbia rejects the request laid down in Article 24(2) of this Act, it will initiate an emergency liquidation procedure, i.e. bankruptcy, in accordance with this law. The National Bank of Serbia shall conduct indirect and direct supervision of the bank's voluntary liquidation procedure, i.e. other financial organisations, or insurance companies, in accordance with the regulation of the National Bank of Serbia. If, in the course of monitoring under Article 4 of this Article, the National Bank of Serbia finds that trustees' rights have been compromised, it will make a solution to the bank's mandatory liquidation, i.e. other financial organisations, or insurance companies, in accordance with the regulation of the National Bank of Serbia'. Article 6 The draft law amending and supplementing the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation law and insurance companies is proposed to add, after Article 25 of Article 5, the position of 6 which reads: "The Bank Assembly, or the Insurance Society, adopts a report on the implementation of the liquidation, the final winding-up balance and the report of the authorised auditor on this balance, as well as a proposal on the distribution of the liquidation rest, according to the previously obtained consent of the National Bank of Serbia". I have proposed to the amendment to delete Article 6. The winding-up shall be carried out as voluntary or forced winding-up, on the basis of the conditions prescribed by law. In contrast to bankruptcy, the winding-up procedure can only be initiated against the Solvency Insurance Company. This is explicitly prescribed by Article 347(1). The company law. In this connection, it should be pointed out that the existence of insolvency constitutes a prior condition for the implementation of both voluntary and forced liquidations. Voluntary liquidation is carried out by the company's own owners. During that time, the company has the same organs as before the liquidation procedure was initiated. Exceptionally, in the case of voluntary liquidation, certain changes may arise in the management of a company. This occurs when the decision of the Assembly of the Society to execute the liquidation is entrusted to the liquidator as a special body. In that case, the liquidator shall assume the powers of the management of the company. However, even then, the liquidator of society acts in the way his administration would act. Therefore, provisions of the Business Society Act, which regulate the position and right of administration, are also applied to the liquidators. That goes for the liquidation of the insurance companies. The specificity of the winding-up procedure of insurance companies, as well as banks and other financial organisations in relation to the winding-up process of other companies is first demonstrated in the law of the prescribed possibility of carrying out forced liquidation. Some specificities are shown in the process of voluntary liquidation of insurance companies. They are primarily the result of a legal obligation that voluntary liquidation of insurance companies can be carried out only with the express consent of the NBS. If the National Bank rejects the request by the insurance company for the implementation of a voluntary organisation, it will, on official duty, initiate an emergency liquidation procedure. In addition, the NBS conducts indirect and direct supervision of the process of voluntary liquidation of insurance companies. If the NBS determines that trustees' rights are at risk, it will provide a solution to the forced liquidation. It is common to the voluntary liquidation procedure of insurance companies and other companies that it is the result of a changed objective of society. This change is due to the law of the prescribed grounds for the termination of society. As a result, the continued existence of society is defined by the time needed to end its existence. It implies the necessary activities for the collection of claims, the cashing of assets and the settlement of liabilities, i.e. the deduction of the potential liquidation surplus to the founders of the company. Decisions on the realisation of these transactions shall continue to be taken by the authorities of the company in liquidation unless the decision of the assembly entrusts the liquidator. The difference is that with the implementation of the liquidation, there is a reduction in the possible activities of the managing authority. Their scope shall be defined by the objectives of the winding-up. Therefore, the winding-up procedure excludes the possibility of making decisions aimed at improving the business of the company. The relationship between the corporate governance body and the mutual relations and the rights of the founders to society remains unchanged. All interested parties must be informed of the initiation of the winding-up procedure. This seems to be by adding the words "in liquidation" to the company's business name. This informs third parties of the changed objective of the company and that they can expect to amend the managing authority in the coming period, i.e. to transfer their powers to the liquidator. After the decision to launch the liquidation, the insurance company is obliged to provide all known creditors with written notice with a call to submit a request within a specified period. The notification of the winding-up decision must be published on the Agency’s website on the same day as the decision to initiate the winding-up procedure is entered. During the winding-up process, insurance companies cannot take new jobs, but only operations related to the implementation of the liquidation procedure, such as the sale of assets, payment of creditors and payment of claims. The specificity of this procedure is that all those tasks can be managed by persons who had the same powers before the winding-up. It's a rule, but, extremely, by the company's decision, the management of these jobs can also be entrusted to the liquidator. The appointed winding-up manager may, by a decision of the company, be replaced by a decision of the court and, in its place, by a second winding-up manager. The liquidation manager's task is to draw up a balance sheet no later than three months after the liquidation procedure is opened. It contains the state of activity and the passive society, the necessary actions to conduct the liquidation and the time needed to complete the liquidation. The decision to accept the initial liquidation balance shall be taken by the Insurance Society's Assembly. The winding-up manager shall submit to the Assembly of the Society a report on the liquidation carried out, the final winding-up balance and the proposal to divide the liquidation of the rest of the company. The amendment proposed that a member of the bill be deleted which lays down this right for the Bank Assembly, i.e. insurance companies, to adopt a report on the winding-up, the final winding-up balance and the report of the authorised auditor on this balance sheet, as well as a proposal on the allocation of the liquidation balance. The SRS believes that the competent state authorities, in this case the Deposit Insurance Agency and the National Bank of Serbia, can only have that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10557	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the amendment tabled by my colleague from the SRS, Miss Lydia Dimitrijevic, on this bill. Before I start talking about the amendment, I'd just like to supplement what my colleague Momir Markovic said. The lack of Kolesar was, by the way, the chairman of the Management Board of the cement factory at the time of privatisation and his case is one of those four and a half thousand outdated cases that have not been processed. A criminal report was filed against him in 2005, but this is what we have in the judiciary, not what was to be done in front of the laws of this country. The economic crisis will test many state bodies, ministries, agencies, funds, markets, including many banks operating in Serbia. Let us not forget that in these very difficult times things should never happen, which allow individuals not only to get rich well, but also to leave many workers on the street for negligence or deliberate failure of those organs that should take care of state property. The NBS referred to in this Article 6. The bill has an obligation to control business banks in Serbia, and banks, in accordance with the law, run their business policy and business on the market. We know that banks offer certificates to customers who participate in auctions by buying businesses in Serbia about their paying power. We also know that the Action Fund gives certificates confirming the fulfilment of the conditions for participation in the auction. Only on one case of stock trading can you see how individual institutions work and how they easily cross over the fate of employees in the company. The example I'm going to give here concerns the "AD Cressor" from Ćupre, companies sold on the Stock Exchange on 11 December 2008, and believe it or not, but the next day it turns out it's about forged documents and certificates. Instead of keeping the Stock Exchange from canceling this sale deal, it only suspends it temporarily, and for up to six months at most. What's bad is the fact that the Action Fund itself has issued confirmation that the buyer meets all the necessary conditions to participate in the auction. I will quote what is written in this explanation of the Belgrade Stock Exchange: At the scheduled auction, on which 401 buyers are on the side of purchase, the broker of the buyer presented the confirmation of the Republic of Serbia Action Fund number 235/08, which confirms that the potential buyer fulfils the conditions for participating in the auction, and that according to the confirmation of the Vojvodina Bank a.d. Novi Sad, a subsidiary of Belgrade, has allocated funds to the dedicated purchase account of the shares at 100% of the initial value of the transactions. Immediately after the sales of the broker of the mentioned buyer reported: On 12.12.2008. The stock exchange received a letter of "Broker a.d." from Belgrade, as a broker representing the buyer at the auction in question by the minimum price method, requiring the Stock Exchange to make a purchase transaction by the actions in question, stating, among other things, that in the procedure of solidarity, the Vojvodjanska banka refused the cash transaction, finding that the presented bank confirmation was falsified, and that they received from the Central Register a conclusion relating to the client who has an open dedicated account for the purchase of shares, but that there is no means to cover those transactions in this account, as well as that they were aware of the bank's confirmation from the 'Broker' of the client, they found that the certificate in question does not contain all the elements that the action fund had prescribed as mandatory. Worse still, in the response of the Vojvodjanska Banka, and in connection with the falsified bank confirmation, it is said even that this falsified certificate, which was allegedly issued on behalf of the Vojvodjanska Banka, does not contain all the elements, and the Action Fund has nevertheless accepted that this certificate is correct. However, the director of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, in a letter to the issuer and to the Securities Commission, concludes that the auction in question was held, whether or not believed, with respect to all the rules laid down for the maintenance of auctions and the Stock Exchange cannot therefore carry out the operation of the transaction in question. The question for the state authorities, the police, the prosecution, the Action Fund, the Securities Commission is – who is to blame for this and will answer, that a man without any means can buy a company with a falsified confirmation of the Vojvodina Bank, which, without verification, was accepted by the Action Fund? Whether the Stock Exchange will now wait for the buyer to find ex-post funds, although at the auction, in fact, he participated without the necessary funds, and the Action Fund without verification issued consent to the buyer to go out on the market and buy a company, in this case AD "Compresor" from Ćupre. Finally, given the behaviour of many of the owners who bought many businesses in Serbia from the privatisation agency, it seems that this was an established scheme to reach wealth without any money.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10559	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10560	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it has been difficult for me to get to the pay phone, but I have reported to support the amendment that has been sent to amendments and amendments of the law by Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic, because I believe she is absolutely right, because under the existing law, the Deposit Insurance Agency and the NBS, in fact, already have jurisdiction over this work, and I don't think there is a need to involve the bank assembly, or the insurance company, in order to adopt these reports. I think it's just enough to stay in the jurisdiction that the law gives to the Deposit Insurance Agency and the National Bank. I have a few more things to say. In February 2005, the Banking Procedure Act was adopted, which was also an improvement and I accelerated the bankruptcy process and ensured the transparency of the legal system for the sake of effective, fair and fair reorganisation of companies that can survive and which can be saved and the liquidation of those companies that cannot be saved. The law is also very interesting because it has given a significantly greater role to bankruptcy managers. He also established procedures for obtaining the licenses of bankruptcy managers, because he felt that bankruptcy managers must really be professionals in order to meet all the requirements of the profession and that this bankruptcy procedure should work properly. On the other hand, in these amendments and the additions to the laws, I also see a proposal for the Deposit Insurance Agency to take over the management of bankruptcy in banks. I also think it's a bad variant and a bad proposal, first of all because we, as a country, have invested an awful lot of money to train bankruptcy managers and I don't think there's any need to take their right now, since it's been seen since 2000, we're saying it's the same circle of people. If you want to mention names, we'll see that it's the same circle of people who only address those portfolios where the finances are. By the time we passed that law in 2005, we had really absurd situations, that one same man, one bankruptcy manager, was leading bankruptcy in 62 companies at the same time, receiving 62 salaries at the same time and holding the property of the 62 companies. Not to mention the length of bankruptcy in Serbia. We have examples that last seven years and more, so we have those that never ended. I can't help but remind myself of the agony of workers of these companies who have been awaiting bankruptcy for 7 years, as well as creditors who, for example, in the bankruptcy process make about 20% of their funds through bankruptcy. What draws attention to the public and all MPs is the enormous profits of bankruptcy managers and rewards that, in fact, for the first time since 2005, have been reduced to one institutional framework. Until then, it was exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Privatisation Agency, which, for example, was the bankruptcy manager of the Slave Houses. The slave houses of Belgrade were sold several months ago for 360m euros. As a reward to the bankruptcy manager, in this case the Privatisation Agency should have a sum of about 5.5m euros. According to the information available to the Agency, the maximum amount of the accounts and the final award of the bankruptcy manager is the prize for the bankruptcy manager of the company ‘Cepak’ from the King. It's a sum of eight million dinars. Otherwise, when it comes to this company, this bankruptcy procedure lasted from 2002 to 2007, and it is about the bankruptcy manager of the Privatisation Agency - the Centre for bankruptcy. We also have cases where individuals as bankruptcy managers have won these enormous awards. For example, the bankruptcy manager for the company "Youth a.d." from Sombora received a gross amount of 3.3 million dinars. To return to the Slave Houses. So, they were sold a few months ago, but they still don't see the end of the bankruptcy process, because they're obviously not in a hurry to the bankruptcy manager, given the credentials he has, which are figures, let's say, every month as compensation for the bankruptcy of three million and so on, so three million, for the licensing of the bankruptcy manager. In addition, this bankruptcy manager, when I'm talking about the Slave Houses, has not delivered a draft solution on the main deion of the bankruptcy mass to the trustees' board, and by law he has to do so and is obliged to do so. Not to mention, the introduction of bankruptcy into "The Slave House of Belgrade" has caused some hundreds of millions of damage to shareholders and creditors. It is obvious that in this procedure someone was well informed, but it is obvious that they are not workers. I would like to say a few more words about bank bankruptcy and to mention this numerous times today the famous bankruptcy of four major banks that financed the Serbian economy on 4 January 2002, which is enough to say, given that this is the time of New Year's holidays, when the Belgrade Bank, Beobank, Jugobank and Investbank went into bankruptcy. The media then announced that the debts of these banks ranged from one and a half billion to eight and a half billion, and then I remember the bombing titles of the type "The State cannot cover these debts". What is interesting, according to Belgrade bank employees, at a time when this bank was shut down, dividends were paid to shareholders, which shows that this bank did not have to go bankrupt at all. In addition, it was interesting that, by law, on February 28th of that year, they should have handed over the final bill. Someone was obviously in a great hurry and he wasn't interested in confirming his findings that they didn't have the opportunity to work any further, but rather, before the final bill was handed over, he simply concluded that these banks should be liquidated. So the banks are liquidated, the bankruptcy managers have entered the banks. What did that procedure do then? First, four large banks were liquidated (I said, they financed the Serbian economy), they freed themselves from workers, there were enormous amounts of assets and values on that basis, and, most importantly, when you removed your large banks, you opened up a space for foreign banks, which entered this market. What's more interesting, and the bankruptcy managers of these banks themselves say, is that they received e-mails to which banks should pay off their debts, and where they are to hold free bankruptcy funds. I really have a complete list of these banks, it's about four of our domestic banks and three of our banks from abroad. I don't know if this has made them familiar with the finance minister, the auditor and all those who have a duty to be familiar with it. Many times today, my colleagues from the DSS have directed a very interesting book, which I recommend to MPs and ruling parties, as well as MPs of the opposition that I believe have come to the book, and this is about Mr. John Perkins' book, who was the World Bank's adviser. It's an inside story about how the World Bank and the IMF are working to get into a country and how they're slowly swallowing both the country and the people in that country through various kinds of humanitarian, inhumanitarian, who are putting us in the most perfidious way into debt slavery, real economic slavery. Mr. Perkins normally explains something that, when you look at it a little bit, you see a situation like that in our country. It explains how counselors work (this function he had in the World Bank). They are first interested in third-world countries and countries that are in transition and then assess what capital, or what resources these countries have, and if America is interested, which ultimately stands as the end-user of these services, for the resources that these countries possess, they enter them. In various ways, but they're coming in. Once the country is in charge, then the IMF offers financial assistance to the country. Since the country has to accept that help, she's taking it. That is, in a sense, a financial injection and a debt reduction. When the state gives its resources to foreign companies or hands over its public sector to foreign companies, then the IMF comes to its own, then the state becomes a puppet in the hands of other powerful people behind the IMF. Then there are those situations that are well known to Serbs. When they're not satisfied with the government that protects their country's interests, they simply tear it down, so they make a government that needs to do the job they're paying for. If that doesn't help, then there's a way -- bombing, already seen in Serbia, so if that doesn't help, then we come to true debt slavery. We're a country that practically doesn't exist, and they're doing their job. If you remember the recent statement by Mr. Stiglic, who, by the way, won the Nobel Prize for Economics a few days ago, he pointed out that we don't have to worry about what the IMF recommends, because from all this you read and see, and we see live in Serbia, we can only conclude one thing: the World Bank and the IMF recommend that we and similar countries do exactly what we don't need done, and we need those they work for. They recommend what won't do us any good. And as professional as they are, you can see that the gentleman I mentioned also points out that, in fact, through the IMF, he's speaking America and that this is actually all that's happened in America, and it started out in America, as a major economic crisis, is a breakdown of such thinking and the bases set up by these financial organizations. So it's quite clear that we, as a country, and that we have to take a little care of what we do and take care of what happens if we don't do it wisely. Since my MP group has only a few minutes left, I'm going to use them to comment on something I read today in the paper. It's a comment on Mr Dinkic and his visit to Kragujevac and, in fact, it's a name I didn't say through this discussion, but it's been mentioned all the time so completely non-verbal. Mr Dinkic, who otherwise does not believe either the signing of his country president, or the signing of his prime minister, or what this assembly has decided, does not trust the signature of then-President Putin, or the signature of the Russian state, and that he believes in the word of the Vice-President of the "Fiat" to Mr Altavil, who, he says, firmly promised to send a letter guaranteeing the realization of the joint investment in the flag. Imagine, this gentleman who doesn't believe in signatures believes in the word of one vice president whose president normally declares these days that they can't function without a strategic partner and that they can't function because the Italian government can't help them in the way that other countries help them. One more thing we see here, it's a joint investment. Although it was the Fiata investment in Serbia, it was a joint investment, and according to the budget we received here, we see that only Serbia is investing in this joint investment for now and, according to the draft budget, it is 14.290,000 dinars. So, it's very interesting and slowly everything that we've been saying and me and my colleagues from the DSS reveal and becomes clear to the citizens of Serbia and to all those who want to see Serbia as a truly free and democratic country. Because this isn't democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10561	National MP Miroslav Petkovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic to article 9. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10562	Thank you. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 200. On December 10th, the DSS parliamentary group referred a parliamentary question to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Today is December 16th, and I first take the opportunity to thank the governor of the National Bank of Mr Jelasic for this quick answer to the question that reads: "We ask the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mr Jelasic, to provide us with a review of Serbia's foreign exchange trade in the interbank foreign exchange market for the period October-December 2008 and in the days, to the participants in the trade process and to the level of trade amounts. "This is very important, because this is a topic that we have launched in the previous days and that will be extremely important to us in the 2009 budget debate. In response to Governor Jelasic's response, we received a report that in the period October-December 2008 the National Bank intervened with 730,200,000 euros, i.e. 5.117,080,963 dinars on the interbank market. However, we did not get the answer that the banks participated in this trade and at which course these transactions were conducted, but we expect that, in addition to their answer, Governor Jelasic will answer these questions. Also, on December 3rd, we asked two very important questions to the finance ministry, Mrs. Minister Dragutinovic, which we did not get answers to. A colleague, Arsen Djuric, asked for answers to these questions. The answer was that a very quick response from the Ministry of Finance will follow, and these issues relate, above all, to the review of budget implementation by direct budget users included in the consolidated Treasury account; the review of implementation by economic classification; the review of implementation by functional classification; the review of quotas by economic classification with the state of December 2008; the review of the use of the budget reserve by users and purposes. These questions also concern the review of the adoption of the Republic's budget as of 3 December 2008, compared to the receipts planned by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2008 Law on the Budget of Serbia, which we are not satisfied with -- we think there are some 80 billion dinars missing by the end of 2008 (We heard some data yesterday in the final presentation of the minister, which we are not satisfied with -- we think there are some 80 billion dinars missing, but good. ) a review of the achievement of tax revenue, by types of income; in particular a review of the receipts classified as other non-tax revenue compared to planned income; in particular a review of the receipts achieved from privatisation and from duties in the country and abroad. Mrs Dragutinovic, you told us last night in your final statement that we can find answers to many of the questions asked by DSS MPs, which concerns the country's income, state expenditure, foreign reserves, on the website of the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. Please let us get these answers in writing, with your signature, with the seal of the Ministry of Finance, because if we go to that logic, then it is not necessary for ministers to attend the meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but we can get acquainted with the proposals of the law on the Ministry of Finance website. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, I'll be done in a few seconds. So I ask you, in the shortest time, if there is a possibility in today's day, since there is one more amendment to the law that you are defending here, we get these answers so that we can get fully prepared to discuss the 2009 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10563	National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10564	Dear People's MPs, the DSS MPs asked a number of questions both to the respective ministries and to the National Bank in the previous period. I want to brag that we got an answer from the National Bank, but we didn't get that from many competent ministries, especially not from the Ministry of Finance, and we had a chance to get a heads-up on the Deposit Insurance Agency last night, the minister referred us to the website of the competent ministry. I would like to say that the DSS MPs highly appreciate you as Minister, and we appreciate that fact that you are sitting in this room all the time, both in principle and in particular. But what is not good is that you, and when there has been a debate in principle and when there has been a debate in particular, in the end, contact us and do not answer the questions asked by the MPs. We opened a series of questions yesterday, especially about the Deposit Insurance Agency. In particular, I have submitted the amendment, and as an argument, I have stated that this process, as a state of action, is that you act as a government, can buy out the actions of certain banks that you consider to threaten financial stability – simply not transparent enough. You didn't answer that in a single word, not in a principle debate, not last night. It's possible that my argument was absolutely not enough, maybe it's wrong, but then it's your turn to come out and say it. Or maybe, which is my thesis, you absolutely disagree with that, and you have no argument whatsoever against what I've brought here. It's not good to keep quiet. There are ministers in this government who participate in the debate with MPs, so when we ask a question during the debate, they come out, give another argument. That always turned out to be good, because then we enter an interactive relationship with the minister and we're actually discussing the essence of the law that's on the agenda. You're here on purpose to keep your mouth shut. You come out, you tell an almost identical story like when there was a debate in principle and we actually run out of answers. So we argue that the legislative authority has no effect on what may be happening in the coming period. (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured. ) Article 225. So I'm asking directly for information from the minister that I'm absolutely interested in. So based on what you said last night, we don't see what that idea is, what your counterargumentation is. I would like to hear it here, and we will probably hear it after the break – what is the idea of the Ministry of Finance on this issue? I don't think you have any idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10565	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10566	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing these days, and I want to say first that the MPs of the opposition are literally under the media terror of the congregation's majority. Namely, what's this about? I have an obligation on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to explain to the citizens of Serbia why all this haste, who is responsible for the fact that certain laws are not passed within the legal deadline, above all I mean the budget, but I must return to the beginning of this session, which is under way. For November 5th, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic scheduled this session with 14 agenda points. Under these 14 items of the agenda were seven laws on which reforms should be implemented in the area of justice. The seven laws also announced lustration in the judiciary. The seven laws provide for the abolition of 104 courts in Serbia. It was not normal to expect that such laws would not be discussed by the MPs and it was not normal to expect that many amendments would not be submitted to these laws, as was the case. Within these 14 points of the agenda are these laws, which we are talking about yesterday and today, which the minister tells us are of an urgent nature, that about the adoption of these laws depends on one's life. These are deposit insurance laws, deposit insurance agencies, bankruptcy and liquidation laws and insurance companies, i.e. amending and supplementing laws. But within these 14 points of the agenda, there is also a new law on public procurement and a new law on associations. It is amazing that someone could have considered that these laws would have passed without debate in parliament and without a large number of amendments, since the common knowledge in Serbia is that public procurement is a source of corruption and crime. As we tried in the principle debate on the Proposal for a Law on Associations to draw attention to the fact that this law wants the Government of the Republic of Serbia to actually legalise the possibility of enrolling as associations of various sects, various NGOs, who are actually working to undermine the Republic of Serbia and who are not working in the interests of Serbian citizens. This agenda, with these 14 points, we got the 5th of November. Why does it matter? Because according to the November 1st budget calendar, the government of the Republic of Serbia is due to adopt the budget. Now someone, who says the opposition MPs are the ones who are obstructing, trying to explain -- wasn't there common sense and common sense in the government when they suggested these 14 points on November 5th that if they didn't adopt the draft budget by November 1, they would do it 2, 3, 5, 10? They knowingly and deliberately gave us, and the congregation majority accepted, to discuss these 14 points of the agenda. They are important, but they were not, apart from these three laws, which we are talking about yesterday and these two today and the travel documents that follow, so these others were not even bound by some deadlines, they were absolutely not priority, but the MPs were supposed to deal with these bill proposals, and that the representatives of the authorities, Mrs Kolundzhija, who is not in the hall again, and this is called obstruction, when the MP, the head of the parliamentary group, were not involved in the work of parliament. Mrs Grubjesic is also not in the O.R. They are probably now making statements ahead that opposition MPs are obstructing parliament's work. For this very reason, first of all, for the sake of the public and the citizens of Serbia, I would like to clarify this subject a little bit, to go back to all these dates, and then let some citizens decide who is obstructing not only the parliament, but the obstruction of life in Serbia, and we argue that it is the government in Serbia and that it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So on November 1st, the government did not adopt a draft budget to deliver it to parliament. The government adopted the budget on December 5th, so a month and a week after the budget calendar scheduled. And it is now expected from parliament that between December 5th and 15th, and December 15th was yesterday, and that was the deadline when, also on the budget calendar, the budget was to be adopted here, now someone else should be held accountable for why we did not adopt the budget in this House. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the government doesn't want it, because the government has already prepared temporary funding. Because if the government really wanted it and that the majority who supported the government really wanted it, then you could transfer these items to the agenda on the day we got the draft budget on December 5th. Then you could agree with the President of Parliament that some points, of which no one in Serbia's life depends, would be removed from the agenda, only to discuss what is so important, what we have been hearing about these days, and that we are already going to discuss the budget. No, you won't. You are aware that you cannot bring the budget (in fact, it is over already, the deadline was yesterday) and you now need the next few months for every problem, for every malversion, for every lack of funds in the budget, for every delay in the salaries of those who are financed from the budget, for the inability to increase the pensions you promised, for all of this you will call someone who allegedly did not allow you to adopt the budget within the time limit. Serbian citizens need to know the truth and cannot just listen to those who speak to them through favored media and accuse the MPs who work here in the interests of citizens and on the agenda. That, in the agenda, in the meantime, we're discussing some very important things, because you don't want to talk about it, that's your problem again. You know, if we were to wait for the government and the assembly majority to discuss corruption and crime at the top of the government, in public enterprises, Bojan Kristo would still be in the airport, he would still receive 11,000 euros in salary. But we launched this initiative, we came out here with data, and we forced the government, at least that's what we're told in public, to cut profits, or whatever it's called -- compensations, members and board presidents in public enterprises. That's what we've been doing, acting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which you of the ruling majority take refuge. Since June, we have been waiting for a proposal for a resolution of 108 MPs on the agenda concerning the problems of KIM. You didn't let that be put on the agenda. We had to use the Rules of Procedure, warn the citizens of Serbia, explain to the citizens of Serbia what is going on at KIM. Unfortunately, in the meantime, you have made it possible for the Eulex mission to be installed there, thus acknowledging that part of Serbia is occupied, but as MPs of the opposition, the MPs of the SRS who have always told citizens the truth, were obliged to inform the public about what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing and what Rod Blagojevic is doing from Andric's wedding. And that's what happened in this House, the mandates were taken, they weren't returned. That's what we had to talk about, and if it's something that you don't think is in line with the Rules of Procedure, that's your problem, but we claim it is in line with the Rules of Procedure. Today was an interesting interpretation of Madam President of the National Assembly when she tried to distract one of the MPs, I think Natasha Jovanovic, that she could not speak on the basis of an article. In 225 and 226, because it says it has nothing to do with the information that Natasi Jovanovic is needed to be involved in the debate on the draft law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. At the time, I did not report to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, but it was indeed impertinent by the President of Parliament, because that Article 226 states that the information is needed by the MP to perform the role of the MP rather than to participate in a debate on some part of the agenda. Since there are only three minutes left and the question is, will I touch this amendment specifically, but I can't miss the chance... I don't know, Mr. Stanimirovic, what's funny. I believe you're convinced that I'm telling the truth, as always as I'm telling the truth, and you're reading the paper and you're getting good at it, buddy, between the lines, to follow and what's being said from this place. I must mention that Mrs Diana Dragutinovic was last night, with the agreement of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, which is actually the sin of Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, member 104, by the president of parliament, because she allowed the minister to hold political hours here for the MPs. Mrs Dragutinovic, someone should have introduced you to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with your rights and obligations when you are in parliament. You cannot hold a political class for the MPs. You can do that in Subotica, on your party tide. You must answer the questions of the MPs here. You must not make fun of the intelligence of the Members of the People, to direct the MPs to read on the website what you write, or what you represent on the site. We can do it without you, but we insist that the minister responds, and that's why you sit here, so that you can participate in the debate on the concrete draft laws that you have proposed. The government of the Republic of Serbia has imposed these laws on us and we are discussing precisely these bill proposals because the government wanted the majority to adopt it as a agenda. You have no right to come out of these frameworks and it is under the obligation to inform you of the president, or the chairman. I spent 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10567	The word is from Ambassador Milos Radulovic. The usual break time, which is usually at 1400 hours, will be after the debate is over in detail, as it is the last amendment to a law whose debate is under way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10568	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, in favour of this discussion by Mrs Verica Radete, before I proceed with the explanation of the amendment, I would like to say that the members of the opposition parties during yesterday were extremely constructive, because they were mainly discussed on the basis of the proposed amendments. We are doing so today and there is no condemnation at all from anyone that the opposition is destroying Parliament's work. Also, I would like to say that the consequence of this situation and this delay, above all, is the lack of a strategy that the ruling parties must have to have in order to function normally in parliament and to pass laws in accordance with the deadlines that exist. According to the Budgetary System Act, we should have the Budget Act here on November 1st. To correct Mrs. Radet, we didn't get him five, but we got him on December 7th, two more days later. The obligation was under constitutional law for us to get around 50 laws here that we were supposed to discuss by 1st of August, and we haven't discussed a single law yet. So much for presenting Parliament to the public, that is, the work of MPs. I think that, first of all, it is a bad message not only to those who want to do so, not only to the MPs of the opposition parties, but also to the MPs of the ruling coalition. Because Parliament is the place where we all need to do what the people expect us to do, because we are, first of all, representatives of the citizens here. Now to turn to Mr Mirovic's amendment. The amendment concerns the draft law amending and supplementing the Bank and insurance companies' bankruptcy and liquidation laws. In Article 9, Mr Mirovic put the word "command" to be replaced by the word "eight". This is in line with the general practice that the laws to be passed in the Assembly take effect on the eighth day since the publication in the Official Messenger. It is an interesting explanation given by the Government on this amendment. It states that ''the amendment is rejected for the reason why the proposed amendments foresee this law to take effect the next day from the day of its publication, and for the purpose of the need to take effective and timely measures aimed at the stability of the banking and financial system... ''Now we would like to turn to the chronology of all these events that have conditioned the adoption of this package of laws relating to the stability of the banking system. We have repeatedly warned here in the Assembly of the dangers that threaten us from the financial crisis. We asked for the government to react in good time. In the middle of the summer, we had the consequences of the financial crisis in the countries of Europe, as well as the world. The DSS, for public reasons, submitted a proposal to the National Assembly on October 8th for an increase in deposits from 3,000 euros to 5,000 euros. I simply don't understand how Mr. Ilic, the secretary of state, not the head of the NS parliamentary group, had to be here at all, to defend this law, to help the minister, because when we proposed this law, Mr. Ilic accused the DSS of spreading panic at the session of the Committee of Finance and of practically destroying the work, to scare the citizens, and you went after that with a much larger amount of what we gave -- no more than 20,000 but 50,000. So much for the justified demands and the assessment of the dangers of the economic crisis by those who had to first spot this danger and react in good time, not to condemn any well-intentioned proposal by opposition parties. We are witnessing that the world has hit a crisis and that a package of these financial laws is necessary. I asked the government on November 4th a question concerning what it is doing, which measures, to prevent the bad effects of the financial crisis? I have illustrated this by increasing the reference interest, increasing the interest on loans and the potential danger that threatens citizens from it. In response, I received that the government has practically taken all available measures to neutralise the adverse effects of the global financial crisis on Serbia's economic system, such as -- has appointed a working group to monitor the global financial crisis and its impact on Serbia, meeting with representatives of financial industry and the real sector to see the current impact of the global financial crisis on these sectors in Serbia. If these meetings were in the context of those meetings that political party representatives had at the prime minister, I don't think they needed to hold these meetings at all because they had coffee and chatted there more or less. The government and the National Bank of Serbia brought the first package of measures. The government is preparing a new package of measures aimed at easing the impact of the crisis on the real sector. In the congregation procedure is the first set of laws. That's exactly the laws we're discussing. Yesterday, in the presentation of Ms. Diana Dragutinovic, we had something she said -- the most effective means against high inflation is a high interest rate. She doesn't like everyone, but someone likes her. So the high interest rate corresponds to those who save, and it doesn't match those who borrow. Banks, first of all, aren't just a place where citizens or any other entity should put money. In the normal world, all business procedures are done by borrowing money (when I say borrows, I mean taking credits) from banks and business entities using that money to run, help in the process of production. It's some real lead and there's no private contractor or owner of any firm that just keeps the money in the account, but it's just a bank loan. We are now coming to where it is said - next year's macroeconomic policy provides for an inflation rate of 12%. Eight percent, but there are expectations and it's possible to go up to 12%. I don't understand how it's even possible to defend that inflation if we have that the funds taken by economic operators are paid at some amount where the interest on those funds is 25-30%. As any private contractor, the owner of any company will endure without increasing the price, and when it increases the price, then we have exactly the counterproduct, the increase in inflation. A set of money with such conditions under which it raises them is precisely the reason for an inflation increase of 25-30%, and I'm afraid, with the trend we're taking, that no matter what someone convinces us of the secure banking system, the interest rate will go and more. Because, just for a month, a month and a half, we brought the reference interest rate from 15.75 to 17.75. Then we come to another thing Mrs Dragutinovic said, I'll quote -- you often mocked a group that should monitor the financial crisis, but that group was really working, I can say the names of those members if you're interested. It's for the public to say that in this group, I don't like to go from myself, but it's Mr. Ilic. I do not want to list other people, but I am Mr Ilic's credibility, because of the reaction to what the DSS has warned, indicates that he does not belong in the task force and that the task force in all of us is in doubt whether he is at all able to make any demands and face the danger that Serbia faces. The government, apparently, has no economic program. The state and all economic operators in the country face complete indifference. Economic operators are in no condition to serve their obligations to third parties at all. In doing so, the state conditioned them to pay a tax on the added value of 15 days from the moment of invoicement. So they don't have any relief in this respect, and the question is when they're going to charge their dues. Let's go, first of all, from state-owned companies, how they settle their obligations. Get to the local self-government, and you'll see what problems they're in with the reconciliation of obligations. We're talking now and spreading false optimism. We should, above all, be honest with the citizens, say what the citizens expect and prepare. But in the right way, and not the way you do it, where one minister says one, and the other minister says the other, where Mr. Djelic says -- we're a desert island, we're not going to be caught by a monster of the financial crisis, they're all going to rush here to finance and invest, and then the next minister, Mr. Milosavljevic comes out and says literally -- we're not a desert island and Serbia is going to be affected by an economic crisis. We have a Mr. Prime Minister who says we won't be hungry. We know that Serbia will not starve, we have not starved under the most difficult conditions, but we are looking for a normal life, which is acceptable and that we all expect, and above all, the government needs to create an ambience to have such a life. We have ministers who give conflicting opinions and who present conflicting views. At one point they say one thing, and in another moment they say the other. When they like it, it is not acceptable for the interstate agreement Serbia has signed (I am finishing, I apologize, allow me a dozen seconds to finish thinking), where the same minister, Mr Dinkic, says - an international agreement on a gas-oil arrangement is unacceptable and, on the other hand, says afterwards - on the basis of the oral guarantees I received from the vice president of the company "Fiat", be sure, Serbian citizens, that "Fiyat" will invest in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10569	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10570	Ladies and gentlemen, I've come forward on the basis of article 101. The Rules of Procedure for Mr. Radulovic's quote when I spoke about the dates related to the budget calendar. I trust you weren't malice, colleague Radulovic. I did not say that we received the draft budget in parliament on December 5th, but that the draft budget was adopted in the Government of the Republic of Serbia on December 5th, and it is true what you said that we in parliament only received it on December 7th. To avoid misunderstandings, once again to remind the public of Serbia's part of the budget calendar and the obligations of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the assembly majority. The government of the Republic of Serbia was obliged to adopt the draft budget by 1 November this year. The government of the Republic of Serbia was scheduled to submit the draft budget to the assembly procedure on November 1st. The assembly was obliged to adopt the budget by 15 December, which was yesterday. We received a draft agenda by the government of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the assembly majority and envisioned 14 points of the agenda, scheduled for the start of work on November 5th. So, the government did it on purpose, and the majority of parliament deliberately accepted it so that we could not discuss the budget (which, in fact, the Government was not there) instead of December 1st, only on December 5th. You remember that Thursday (when the government's usual session was held) before that December 5th, there was no cabinet session, that it was then the most violent fight, which we managed to find out, within the government itself, from representatives of ministries and ministers who thought they had received little or did not get enough, of course to meet their needs and needs of their co-workers, not in the interest of Serbian citizens. So then there was an extraordinary cabinet session (is that right, fellow Radulovic? , we met in public), that extraordinary session adopted the budget and you were right when you said that we in the Assembly, as MPs, received the budget only on 7 December. It was by no means possible, respecting the Rules of Procedure, even if we didn't have all this on the agenda, to adopt the budget yesterday, because it was not wanted by the parliamentary majority and the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10571	Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Minister Diana Dragutinovic, want to give the final word? Yeah. ) The word has Diana Dragutinovic, minister of finance in the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10572	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, as everywhere in the world, Serbian citizens fear for their savings, jobs and purchasing power. Therefore, at its session on 23 October, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted proposals for the text of the following laws: the Law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation and insurance companies and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency. The debate on them is over today, and I would just like to repeat once again that this package of laws, but not just him, has been guaranteed by the state for the safety of the savings of its citizens. At first, I was, I mean, in part giving an answer to Mr. Tomic's question. MP Tomic asked why Serbian citizens are extracting savings from banks. Out of fear, Mr. Tomic, as they draw their savings from the banks of the citizens of Germany or the citizens of Austria. So, out of fear, no matter what in these countries, the state guarantees unlimited savings. But far more important for Serbian citizens is the fact that no citizen has lost his role and that this fact, perhaps more than this law, guarantees the security and continuity of foreign currency savings. I will try partially to answer various parliamentary questions. The majority of questions were asked by MP Jojic. Unfortunately, I can't answer all the questions right now, but I'll try. I think that MP Jojic and MP Jorvanka Tabakovic have asked identical questions, it is irrelevant which group they belong to. (Miss Radeta, from the scene: stay out of politics, Minister.) ) Otherwise, I do not give political speeches and have no political experience, which is obvious. I just want to answer the question when I know the answer right now. So MPs were interested in the salaries of directors, board members and chairman of the board of directors at the Deposit Insurance Agency. I have these data for the period 2006-2008. This means that here you will now be familiar with the data before the Government has recommended how much compensation they will be to members and chairman of the board of directors. The average salary per agency employed in 2006 was 56,000 dinars, in 2007 75,000 dinars and in 2008 79,000 dinars (rounding). The chairman of the board of directors, as of July, Mr Ilic, mentioned in 2006, 2007 and 2008 had 34,000 dinars of compensation. So she hasn't changed in that period. Also, members of the board of directors throughout this period had an average fee of 28,000 dinars. Therefore, both 2006 and 2007 and 2008. As far as the Agency's director is concerned, in 2006, he had, again, 238,000, 283,000 and 305,000 in 2007. You asked me for the information and I gave you the information. As regards the report on the work of the Deposit Insurance Agency, it was submitted to the Assembly, in accordance with the law, within the prescribed time limit. So, to the government, the NBS and the Ministry of Finance on 11 July 2008. I think Mr. Jojic has also asked a lot of questions about the compensation of privatisation consultants in various privatisations (And that's what you asked? I'm sorry. ) to privatise a large number of banks in state hands. You were particularly interested in the compensation he received from Citadel as a privatisation consultant. Of course, I can answer that question for you, but perhaps the public is working, it's not bad to know which banks are involved, who were privatization advisors and how much compensation they were, since the compensation consists of two parts, so, the fixed part and the percentage of the value of the job done. This, of course, will all be sent in writing. So, Jugobanka a.d. Belgrade, Privatization Advisor BNP, the most favourable bidder was the Alphabank from Greece, the fixed fee is $150,000, there is a fee that is related to the percentage of contracted work, the job is 152m euros, which is 1.95% of that sum. So the total fee is 2.9m euros. The Continental Bank -- again the same privatization advisor, means BNP. The fixed fee was $60,000 and the payment per successful transaction was 1.95%, meaning 960,000 euros. Novi Sadska Banka -- the same privatisation adviser, BNP, a fixed fee of $90,000, is 1.95%, a total of 1.4m euros. The low bank a.d. Now what I'm assuming the MPs are most interested in, it's the Citadel. I just have to let you know that, practically, the Privatization Advisor was ING, who took Citadel as a subprivatization advisor, so they know how much ING got, and then he paid the Citadel how much he thought he belonged to him. A fixed fee of $100,000, a percentage of 1.9%, totaling 270,000 euros, worth 15.87 million. The Vojvodjanska Banka -- a privatisation adviser to 'Nomura', was not a fixed fee, but only at the rate of the transaction being made, and the transaction was worth 368m euros. It means that the privatisation advisor received 4.45m euros. The Pannonian Bank -- there's also Citadel, as someone hired by ING, there's no fixed fee, just a percentage of the transaction, and that percentage is 1.40%, so that's 1.7m euros. Kredi Banka, Kragujevac -- a privatisation adviser is "Epic", has only a fixed fee and is about 35,000 euros. As for Pancevo Business Bank, I can only say now that all legal opportunities will be used. So, I know in the case, I know that it was the control of the National Bank of Serbia and what I can say is that all the legal possibilities will be used. As for the answer to the questions about the cost of bankruptcy of four banks and how much revenue losses are based on land leases, as someone said, and that the tycoons are the ones that are renting land, I have to admit I don't know that answer at this point, but I'm going to try to ask around. Also, Mr. Bhuha wanted to remind the government that all possibilities stand before the state when it comes to the fight against the financial crisis. I would like to remind you that I have said what the package of measures does and that the measure also includes tax laws, but if I have to repeat: the Deposit Insurance Act, the guarantee for new borrowing of banks, state guarantees, different forms of State intervention that involve capital injection, which I will say a little bit later, implies only as an ultimate measure, tax exemptions, but also different forms of State intervention from the budget sector to the economy. You're saying the state doesn't have those funds or that those funds are small. It's all a matter of measure. I'm telling you, 10% of budgets are discretionary expenses. That's the order of 74 billion. Under these 74 billion, capital expenditures are to be found and loans from the state must be found. All state loans are loans under more favourable conditions. So, capital expenditure under these 74 is 40, and loans under more favourable conditions, which include loans from the Development Fund, are about 25 billion dinars in the 2009 budget. That 25 billion includes 5 billion from the budget directly to the Development Fund, but it should not be forgotten that the Development Fund has its own resources, which are 16-size -- so 16 plus 5 is 21 billion. I would like to point out something about the often-proclaimed appeal that the state is not working enough and that at this very moment a large tax exemption is needed. I would really like to appeal to you, as MPs, that you cannot at the same time ask for greater support from the state, greater assistance without having or disowning tax revenues. It's simple, you have to pay the bill. Also, I would like to remind you that the most important tax rates in Serbia, which have been criticised here so many times, are relatively low. And not only that, it's a big tax exemption. When, say, you want to figure out what an effective tax rate is for profit, you'll see that it's only 5% and that it's not there in the world. So customs rates are high, but the tax rates in Serbia, they can be compared, are in line with lower tax rates. Special excise duties, in particular VAT, in particular income tax and in particular profit tax. I don't like to take Croatia as an example, but there is, say, VAT 22%, in Hungary is 23%. Our tax rate, with the exception of 4-5 countries, has the lowest VAT rate. I didn't quite understand MP Zoran Nikolic, but I would try to answer his question the following way. I think the issue concerns the process of buying bank actions that threaten financial stability with their business, but in the face of the fact that the state, or the National Bank, has too much freedom and that freedom should be limited. I can only answer that question that there is neither a national or a central bank in the world nor a state that has any discretionary rights. Personally, I prefer the rules, but if someone finds me a country where you can only run fiscal and monetary policies based on the rules, I'd like them to tell me. In this case, it is the discretionary right of the state. It is explained by the fact that the state, or national bank, sometimes has to be flexible and quick to react. But again, I remind you that this is only in extreme need. For me, the most useful incentive I have received from Parliament and from all of you insisting on the control of the spending of public funds is, above all, the profits of public enterprises, stock companies, agencies in which the state has its own property. This problem obviously exists for many years, and for me, for example, it will be a personal challenge to try and solve it. You'll end up estimating it. In the end, I would propose to Parliamentarian Markic, if he is still there, a meeting that I will organise together with representatives of the Treasury, the Ministry of Sports and my little ones, because I really think that when there is good will and money, we can solve any problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10573	National MP Milos Radulovic. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? It's completely out of the ordinary. You know that, according to the Rules of Procedure, at the end of the debate in particular, and before the search is completed, the Government's representative has to give the final word and after that the search is concluded, but here you go. Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10574	I appeal to Article 104: "The Members of the People are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly." For the sake of the public and citizens of Serbia, I would like to say that at the moment the minister gave the final word at the Assembly's Hall at the beginning of her presentation, there were 19 MPs present in the ruling coalition. There are 24 of them right now. No head of any parliamentary group of the ruling coalition was in the O.R. when Minister Diana Dragutinovic gave the final statement. This best shows what members of the ruling coalition have and what support Minister Diana Dragutinovic give.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10575	People's MP, your explanation of Article 104's injury shows absolutely nothing. Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure, especially because I stressed that it is completely unusual to give a word for breach of the Rules of Procedure, especially not for such an explanation. The People's MP Milorad Buha wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10576	Given that the finance minister here said that he would accept certain suggestions and opposition and positions, all those who were well-intentioned to help the finance minister, the government and all state institutions, because we are expected to have a serious crisis and we must seriously address all the problems that are already present but will be far more difficult, the SRS suggestion and what we have stressed almost every day is to limit the profits of the directors of public enterprises. How? Regulation, Government regulation, for one month, for one year, for two years, etc. You can prolong, change, adapt, etc. It is inappropriate for the director of a public enterprise to earn eight, nine, ten salaries, 12 at Krishta (not now we know if it is 10, 12, 15, 20 salaries), the President of the Republic. Is that appropriate for our society? I repeat, the chairman of the Deposit Insurance Agency's Management Board receives 34,000, compared to the president of one institution, also the state, which received a million and two hundred, 35-36 times more. Is that appropriate? How do you evaluate that? The management of the state institution and the elements of control is set up by the government, set up by the ministry, and you, as minister, must propose these elements to the government, adapt, align, etc. Such differences are not appropriate, they are very harmful. How to motivate one chairman of the board of directors in relation to the other chairman of the board of directors? I responsibly argue that this is the position and position of this chairman of the Management Board, given the size of the affairs, far, several times, perhaps 35 times greater than the seat of the chairman of the Central Registry Board of Securities. The suggestion goes in that direction – limit it. Why don't you limit it? A month and a half ago, when that information came out here, you said you'd do it, you didn't do it. Why didn't you do it? Who's defending who? You, as Minister of Finance, must suggest it and you have fenced yourself. Let the prime minister come out and say it's justified, that it's because of the complexity of this or that, that he goes with the argument he wants, but it has to be limited. Furthermore, the issue of privatisation advisors' compensation. The SRS says it's stealing, seizing funds. I received a written reply: the fees that are taken at two basics - a fixed amount and a refund on the net sales of capital. What makes anyone so entitled to a deal like that? It's a bad contract. What does an intellectual service have to do with a...? (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10577	I hereby conclude the review of the draft law amending and supplementing the laws on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I am notifying the National Assembly on the basis of Article 85(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that today we will work even after 1800 hours. Now I'm setting a break by 4:00. At 4:00 p.m., we will begin the afternoon work with discussion in details of the 12th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on travel documents. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: How long do we work, not to be, like last time, misunderstandings? We have to make a deal for the transfer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10578	We're continuing our work. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Road Corrections (single) I welcome the Minister of Interior and the First Vice-President of the Government of Mr. Ivica Dacic. You have received an amendment submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Buha on 13 November 2008. You also received the Government's opinion on the amendment. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Buha wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents. In Article 53 of the parent law, I suggested that words be spoken. "31 December 2008" replaces it with words. "June 30, 2009". The government rejected this amendment with a reason that the ''amendment is not accepted since, by considering all the conditions necessary for issuing travel documents under the new Law on travel documents, there has been an assessment that the deadline set out in Article 1 is optimal. A bill of law.' It is important to note that this law these days has caused huge controversy in the public, given that the vast number of citizens who have an old travel document, according to the provisions of the Travel document, has been unable to travel. Since New Year's and Christmas holidays, if many of our citizens wanted to travel abroad, would be impossible for them to travel to other countries because the old travel document, according to the provisions of this law, was valid until December 31st this year. We have a situation that the current government is using the opportunity to throw itself at the opposition, to say -- here, now because they're blocking us in parliament, because we can't adopt changes and additions to this law, we're not able to meet citizens and you citizens, you'll have to, unfortunately, stay for New Year's and Christmas holidays in the country, you won't be able to travel in the direction you planned. The truth is completely different. He told the truth here when we discussed this law in principle, the interior minister himself, when he said that the new passport could not be issued within those deadlines provided for by law because of 'objective difficulties and technical inability'. There is much behind this sentence, but this sentence and this position of the interior minister disproves everything we have heard these days, which refers to the criticism of the opposition authorities. Namely, the Law on travel documents itself entered into force on 9 October 2007, and has been applicable since 9 April 2008. So, we had a full eight months, and even these six months before that, about a year and a half ago, to carry out mostly administrative and technical and all other preparations, to start issuing new passports and to meet the wishes and demands of citizens and to respect the legal norm that is binding for everyone and also for the current government and the Ministry of the Interior. What we have been able to hear in this year and a half from the current authorities is that individual representatives of the authorities have been going out and saying that these are purely technical tasks that will be done routinely, as has been done so far, and that the biometric passport, what is a condition for the liberalisation of imports, will be allowed to be put into normal use the moment when these technical and administrative matters, which are accompanied by this situation, are resolved. As early as 2007, Mr Djelic said it was a routine thing and that we would get a new biometric passport sometime since the third month of 2008. Unfortunately, this has not been met, you have had huge problems in technical preparation, and even in this preparation for the release of the new biometric passport Djelic banned the governor of the National Bank of Serbia from providing information on problems in technical preparation for the issue of biometric passports. For what? Because of these technical problems, since these are seven elements of protection, there have been other problems. We opened them, the representatives of the SRS. It was the purchase of special equipment for the issue of biometric passports, and according to some information, Mr. Todorovic brought them out here, the equipment cost 30m euros. Regardless of the purchase of these equipment and whatever technical arrangements, it was too late, so it was too late. Unfortunately, here we come by the end of this year, we've upset the public, we've created huge problems for the citizens of Serbia, and we haven't found a solution. The solution is again in amendments to the law, which, behold, is in front of us in the benches. We have to change it just because we're insecure, we're insecure, and behind that, we can say that there's probably certain elements of doubt on our part that there's something else that's the main problem in all of this. So not just objective difficulties and technical problems, but also certain other elements that we need to discuss. As for the liberalisation of the visa regime, which is related to the issue of this passport, the current government has made huge failures. First of all, we have not finished the legislative regulation that is necessary for the completion of liberalisation. In addition, we are facing administrative and legal affairs, the issue of various regulations, instructions, directives, etc., then internal documentation and internal instructions of the Ministry of Interior for the issue of passports and, in addition, all those tasks administrative and technical, and technical and technological, which are necessary to complete the overall procedure for visa liberalisation. We came here from the Home Secretary a few days ago, when we were reviewing the amendments and additions to this law, we received some information regarding the legislation and the regulations necessary for them to be adopted. After all, when the Ministry comes out with legal proposals to this assembly, we have a period of implementation. In our terms, we're running and running. The MUP and our state bodies are not ready enough to carry out all the implementation procedures that the European Union is telling us to do. We've been listening here to criticism from the opposition, how the opposition is guilty of everything, but you need to look inside your ranks, see your failures, and start to solve these problems because we're not going to go slowly on the line about visa liberalisation. I will take this opportunity and address the Ministerial Affairs because I have asked one parliamentary question, I have received an answer and I am not satisfied with the answer. It is a question – what does the Ministry of the Interior do about numerous murders, persecution, harassment, the detention of informative talks by Serbs in Croatia, and what does the MUP do in terms of helping Serbs who are discriminated against in Croatia? I got the answer in two sentences and I'll read them. "The Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for resolving the fate of missing persons and collecting information and evidence regarding war crimes committed, as well as for depriveing all responsible persons of war crimes committed in the territory of the former SFRY, including the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Regarding the other issues contained in the parliamentary issue of MP Milorad Buha, which concerns alleged killings, persecution, harassment and detention of the informative talks of the Serb nationality in the Republic of Croatia, we are of the opinion that these issues fall within the scope of state policy and interstate relations, and that the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia are responsible for them. "Minister, I'm not satisfied. The other day you were in Croatia, you signed a co-operation agreement with the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. You probably didn't take advantage of that opportunity to point out the huge problems of Serbs in Croatia, discrimination against Serbs conducted by Croatian state authorities, etc. I'm taking this opportunity to give you a few materials from the government of Republika Srpska and hand them over.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10580	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10581	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, no minor amendments to the law, no major problems when it comes to this law. You, above all, had the opportunity to hear in principle everything about this law and how it was abused in the election campaign. Now let's look at these changes and additions, where you're asking for the validity of this law to be extended until 31 December 2009. What's he saying? This, above all, tells Serbian citizens, and also to the MPs, that the government, the Ministry, the National Bank, or the Bureau of the Printing of Passports, is unable to complete this job in six months, as suggested by Milorad Buha, an SRS MP. These are serious problems, or something that every citizen, every MP can immediately see and come to the same conclusion. The next thing that is extremely important when it comes to this law and the problem that the government failed to keep the promise and to replace the passport by December 31st, it has to look for them because a large number of citizens are coming into trouble because passports couldn't be made, is that you didn't do anything or at least inform the public about all the facts relating to the abuse of these passports, the purchase of equipment and everything else, and here, as I recall, is the figure of 30m euros. Also, Mr. Minister, the question arises -- how did that job get another ministry when it was supposed to be done by the Ministry of the Interior? You know, if, I guess, five euros per passport, one million passports is five million euros. The Provisian is small but nice, beautiful, and you know it's against the law and that you should have done everything in your power to inform the MPs today about the remarks we had here regarding the crime of issuing new passports, say what you've done and inform both the Assembly and the MPs about who's responsible for the fact that we were late in Europe. You, Mr. Minister, know that this is one of the conditions for us to get to Europe. How are we gonna get there with the old passports? Or maybe they'll just let the new passports go to Europe and the old passports won't? Therefore, these are serious problems that you have brought Serbian citizens into, and you should have answered these questions and told the MPs what you have done about the problems they will face. Also, Mr. Minister, I must tell you that your proposal to amend and supplement the law is largely a member of the ruling parties in every way they wanted to use it, I can say even dishonestly, by wanting to accuse the opposition as Serbia's citizens allegedly, because we report to the amendments, what we are doing in this assembly, they will not be able to travel to Europe as of the New Year. It seems the only way to deal with the problems you face in the government is to try to accuse the opposition of all the problems you've brought this country to, your ruling coalition, and transfer responsibility to opposition. That's what you do with the budget. Here, they are already trying to explain to Serbian citizens that pensioners will not receive pensions, social aid will not arrive, salaries will not arrive -- because the budget will not be adopted in time. (President: Time. The government has done everything in its power, but it seems to be very low in possibilities. Because instead of adopting the budget on November 1st, they did so on December 7th, and only eight submitted the proposal to the Serbian Parliament, and now they are crying out loud that the opposition MPs will make amendments to the budget. It's just amazing how you can think of such ideas. (President: Time. I'm sorry, I'm done. At least you, Mr. Minister, have been in power for a long, or short time, and then a little bit in opposition, and again in power, you know that the budget of the law on which the parties share whether the parties are opposition or party positions. One more thing, Mr. Minister, just to remind you of your obligation. When are you gonna let the public know who killed Ranko Panic? It's been a long time, you see what's going on in Greece, what all the problems stemmed from, because of the murder of one protesters, and Serbian citizens expect, Mr. Panic's family expects the ministry to come out with a statement and take all the measures envisaged against the one who broke the law, or used inappropriate force (President: Mr. Todorovic, you will have to finish. ) towards the late Rank Panic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10582	Mr. Shami picked up the word, too, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10583	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I have prepared a discussion to support the original version of the amendment submitted by Mr Buha, in which he asked that the deadline be moved from 2009 to 2010, and that is exactly what I wanted to support, because it is simply giving greater rights to citizens. A large number of our citizens have passports, more like some symbol of their freedom, but unfortunately, because of material inability, they do not use, travel, and do not need much to rush the change of that document. I'm not inclined to support this version of Mr. Buha's amendment because I don't think it has anything to do with state organs. This only reduces the deadlines for citizens, puts them in a position that some jobs have to be done very quickly, and I don't see any reason for that. However, there is something to say, which I resent to Mr. Minister and to the government at all. Namely, the start of passport replacement is because of various, as we've been informed, technical reasons, let's call them technical reasons, shifted and... (President: Please do not disturb Mr. Shami. I think those who sit in the hall should listen to the speakers. So the start of the passport change was moved and it was clear this summer, as a day, that by December 31st passports could not be replaced. What I object to is that this law could have been found on the Assembly agenda in September. This isn't some complicated law. I understand that sometimes there are laws that are complicated, long, treating some serious problems, so it's hard to write them. This law, it is clear to everyone, was written in five minutes and there was no need to wait for a session that began in November, and will end in December. In doing so, the opposition is wrongly respected to defend, my God, the possibility of extending the deadline for citizens, which is, at the very least, hypocritical. So, even at a special session, which would take five or a half minutes, we could adopt this law in September. Not to say we could've done it in August, but this assembly, unfortunately, didn't work in August. If we didn't talk much, the law would, of course, be adopted as much as tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, and I'm sorry that Mr. Buhe's original amendment didn't stay, I would support it, and I don't know if Mr. Minister is thinking about it, it might be good as the deadline and say 31 December 2010. That wouldn't mind. Anyone who wants can replace a passport as much as tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, and to people who are not, unfortunately, able to travel abroad, and there's a lot of these because they don't have any money, should give a comfortable deadline to extend their passport at some point. That's where they can figure out a little bit, one part of those old passports will run out in the meantime, so they can use it. People are increasingly and more often taking care of every dinar, and what could ruin six months or a year of passport validity. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10584	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Batic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10585	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers, I think it is clear to all of us that it is necessary to extend the period of validity of existing travel documents, i.e. passports, because it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, with the fact that it really shouldn't have come into complete teat. People who planned to travel already to St. Nicholas or to Catholic Christmas or on the eve of the holiday will hardly be able to do so, and some will have to postpone their journeys in a few days. But what is it, it's here. It is obvious that the previous government experiment did not bear fruit, and the existing government, first of all through the mouth of Vice President Djelic, gave ease of promise. You remember that it was promised that at the beginning of the year, in March, new passports would take place, and then we attended that award of the first 50 new passports to our young, talented, promising people, and it turned out that these passports were technically wrong, so for the second time they handed over the first 50 passports, Djelic sat somewhere in the corner, and the passports were handed over to the police director Mr. Veljovic, and then it was promised a pace until when passports were made and secured for all those citizens who wanted to replace the travel documents, so people were exposed to various miscreants, so it was proven that these new passports were too little and that perhaps one or two percent of the citizens still do not have a passport from the Serbian state. In parallel, there were promises that by the end of the year we'd be on the white Schengen list. It will not be citizens of Serbia, but will be citizens of Montenegro. So this morning, I asked the President of Parliament to congratulate, on behalf of the Serbian Parliament, the Montenegrin Assembly on an application for EU membership, to admit that people are more successful than we are, no matter what we think of them, that it is also an incentive and motive for us, not to be angry and sullen. Now there's no promise of a white Schengen list for next year. Now be quiet, because it is uncertain whether we will be candidates for EU membership by the end of 2009. We have another paradox here. What kind of travel document are we, and what passport are we extending? (President: Time, Mr. Batic. No, you didn't read the Rules of Procedure well. If we strictly adhere to some legal procedure, on what basis does Serbia extend the passports of the previous state? We don't even have an SCG passport, we even have a SRJ passport. It's already theater absurd. I know, there may be an expert in law to say that Serbia is a legal follower of the SRJ. I agree with that, but I'm talking about the normative, the legal regulation of certain status rights. However, it is good to welcome that, even with delay, even with all these unfulfilled promises, the passports extend, so as not to turn our citizens into second-class citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10586	Thank you. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic, can you just wait for me to give you one notice? You have accepted the resignation of Jagoda Jorge as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 of paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the mandate of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office ended before it was elected MP Jagoda Jorga, elected from the electoral list for European Serbia-Boris Tadic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Thank you, Mr. Nikolic, and I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10587	Reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. In fact, the previous speaker here tried to persuade MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to show their respect for the Montenegrin Parliament and Montenegro itself, even the Montenegrin government for its application for EU membership, and to show respect to the assembly of the state that recognised KIM independence. I think this can only be done by someone who has an apartment on St. Stefan and who has something to do with the government of Montenegro. An ordinary Serbian citizen, who thinks well of his country, one who fights against imposed independence by KIM, those MPs who fight for the rights of the Serbs in Montenegro should in no way support this request, nor should they remain silent and without saying that the proud Republika Srpska Assembly humbles and shows respect to the Serb state assembly that has recognised the independence of KIM. (Employees of the SRS are banging on the bench all the time during the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10588	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The replica has Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the people's proverb says, "A man scratches where he itches." Mr. Nikolic, you're not demonstrating any values you're campaigning for again. I know it's not in the spirit of the ideas and attitudes of the Eastern European right, because you're the Eastern European right hand, and think about whether it's possible at all, or whether it's such a contractio and an adecto, if as a lawyer you know what it means, although I don't believe it. So, you're for fighting, conflict, polarization. Montenegro is our closest neighbor. We can love or dislike the rule of Montenegro, respect or disrespect, but facts are facts. Montenegro has applied for EU membership and, if we want good neighbourly relations, it should be accepted and it should be welcomed in some ways, because it is a matter of political and diplomatic courtosia. I know you don't know what that means, and on the other hand, Mr. Nikolic, you're right, I have a 29-square-square garage on St. Stefan, but it comes from 14 years ago. As a state official, I didn't get an apartment of a few arias like you, I didn't make a villa like you. I earned everything long before I was the government, only working as a lawyer. I don't know what you need with me in the first place. This is my political position. You may agree or disagree, but I am telling you, as long as we are building barriers and walls towards neighbours, let the EU talk about both our future and your European path, it really doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10590	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and when we vote this law, then we will be able to go to Montenegro. So it would be good if we passed this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10591	Since you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, are not showing your passport anywhere, you should know that Montenegro is still travelling without passports and that this law is not a prerequisite for travel to Montenegro. I don't pollute here with personalities, but with attitudes. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia serves to face attitudes, not personalities. So your position is treasonous, and my view is not the attitude of the European right. My position is the position of a party belonging to a moderate Serbian right. I don't interfere with those European divisions, I don't care. But that Serbian citizen, that national MP, that Serb who says we should recognise the democracy of Montenegro that completely expelled the Serbs from the constitution, threw out our language, threw out citizens who in the majority belong to the Serbian Orthodox Church, imposed on them a new church, the authority that accused Serbia even Montenegro of being bombed because the Yugoslav Army, that authority, Mr Batic, did not deserve to be praised here. The government is always distinguished through the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, I'm not polluting with you or your political losers. I argue with the view that there is a need to speak positively here about the government in Montenegro. The government in Montenegro does not deserve Serbia's respect. (Employees of the SRS are banging on the bench all the time during the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10592	Gentlemen, I ask you not to use any violations of the Rules of Procedure to prevent us from working today and on the next item of the agenda. The word is Mr. Batic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10593	Mr. Nikolic, you haven't learned anything. I don't understand why you attribute your moral traits to me. Aren't you tired of talking about traitors or traitors? You don't need those epithets, which have been in place for a long time for you to move on to others. The story of patriots and traitors has led this country here to be the last on its way to Europe, and this vocabulary is just a brake on its way to Europe. Besides, I didn't say for you that you were a European right, but an Eastern European right, with Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Belarus. If there's a right there, then you're looking for your foreign policy partners. Montenegro has a parliament representing the citizens of Montenegro. As Serbia's parliament is a representative of most Serbian citizens, so is the parliament of Montenegro. So someone might like it or not, but they're facts. After all, Mr. Nikolic, at any time of the day and in every place you and I can argue about who did more, or at least try to do more, both for Serbs with KIM and for Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10594	Mr. Zika Gojkovic has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10595	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I mean Mr. Nikolic's exposure, which we just had a chance to hear. I just can't help but answer what he said. I guess this might extend the discussion of something else, not what we're supposed to talk about, but I have to say this. I think traitors are the ones who betray their friends, the best friends, who forget about the monarchy overnight and use everything just for cheap political points. This is what we now had the opportunity to see in this newly formed party. Unfortunately, a large number of citizens are always thrilled with something new and at first casts votes for such ones, but they understand very quickly what a failure it is. As far as European principles and European right-wings are concerned, the best relations with neighbours have always been advocated by the parties that are the European right hand, including the SPO. When we look at Mr. Nikolic's exposure, gentlemen of the radicals, unfortunately, I must say that, in some sense, he is still yours, although you do not want him. I would ask everyone to return to the agenda and continue to do as the citizens expect us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10596	I thank you for your constructive proposal. Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word, please. According to the Rules of Procedure, is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10597	President, dear Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, I really want to defend the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has a pro-European government, in which most MPs are pro-European, some long ago, some recently. Montenegro is our neighbour, until yesterday we were in the common state. They said they would achieve their national state goal, which is Euro-Atlantic integration, faster if it restores its statehood. They did it in 2006. They submitted a bid for membership in the European Union. Personally, my group and I think we should congratulate them on that. As far as I know, Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Djelic congratulated Montenegro on that. I'm really surprised that either you, Mr Dacic, or the head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority, or the Democratic Party, don't go out here and defend Parliament's dignity and say that it's an act that we are seeking, that they have arrived before us and that we should not be jealous, that our neighbours were, are now, and that we simply should not envy other people's success, but should be proud that someone with whom we have spent so many years together is successful in what we, what most in this hall also want for Serbia. That would be, in the right way, defending the dignity of this congregation, not insulting neighbors. We're glad that the government, with a delay, listens to the LDP. We said don't pull the ambassadors. You pulled them back, and then you brought them back. We said don't banish the Montenegrin and Macedonian ambassador. All right, then you said, "Let them come." So this is the way we show in practice that we are committed to Europe, European values and European integration. It is not the path we have heard here about Montenegro, which has indeed achieved success, the success of which we seek, and who we are so far away, and further and further, and especially we will be far away if a NIS purchase contract is signed without a gas pipeline guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10598	Thank you. Mr. Free Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10599	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 104. After this speaker, Mr Tomislav Nikolic tried again to point out that true friends are somewhere far away and that they are enemies around us, although the governments elected by the congregations of these countries were elected legitimately, in democratic elections, etc. However, what is the key to everything, Mr. Nikolic? It was sad and pathetic to listen to you when you left the SRS and cried as someone said you were a traitor, a foreign mercenary and explained to the press and the public how hard it was to wash away from that burden. You've spent 18 years of people sitting mostly on this side, and there, a part of us on the other side, calling us traitors, foreign mercenaries, crying and crying about what someone said about you, and now you've told Mr. Batic again that what he's saying is treason policy. How much longer? You can really change the order you're sitting in, and the suit you're wearing, etc., but you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't. For you, traitors are all who think a little differently from you, who want well both with their neighbours and with those who, in the extreme line, sit in the second group of MPs. It doesn't matter what their policy is, but we don't want to do anything wrong. I think it's... (President: Mr. Krasic, don't throw away. I am very sorry that many citizens feel that the ruling coalition's policy is increasingly drawing towards the East, Iran, Russia, etc. I'm really sorry that the citizens see that all the stories around the European Union aren't as solid as you said they would be, but I expect one of you to come out here and say, "Hello, man, so you can't share in this assembly of people on traitors just because they think otherwise, just because they think Montenegro is our neighbor with whom we have to have good relations, whose ambassador we have to return." A colleague from the SPO came out and said, but I don't think he's the only one who should do it. There are some major parties here in the ruling coalition that would have to use this language and this way of turning to a halt.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10600	Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I understand it's a replica, Mr. Nikolic, or according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10601	Anyone in Serbia who agrees with KIM's independence will be called a traitor. And I still have a negative opinion about you LDPs, and I still think you're foreign mercenaries. What insults you, what pains you? I still think about you that instead of the pipeline, you are rather prepared to make a "polluter" from Colombia to Belgrade, which would transport white powder to Serbia. I didn't insult Montenegro here. Montenegro has its way. Like any other country, I wish her success, but I can't agree with the recognition of KIM independence. I won't forget that, and I can't agree with MPs in the Serbian Parliament who think it's normal. Let me just say something to this young wolf. You know, Vuk Draskovic and I were lucky and unhappy to be the godfathers of Vojislav Seselj. I have never called Seselj the Croat and Ustasha, like your Vuk Draskovic. I'm talking about Seselj and today I'm only talking about the best. (At the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10602	The word is Mr. Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Maras, then Mr. Batić. I'd really like to ask you to work today so that before 6:00, we can move on to the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10603	First, an injury. 104, 27 and 103, whatever you want, but let's concentrate on you, Madam Chairman. If the parliamentary group that participated in the elections and entered this parliament by voting for it, so that those votes were fought and the villages in these benches, someone who had failed all the principles that he had respected for the past ten years and came to change, as counterpart Maras said, a car, a house, a parliamentary group, a order, MPs, etc. Call the foreign mercenaries, like everyone who voted for us, and you're not responding, is that your position, Madam Chairman? I think it's your duty, under Article 27, to make a note of something like that. As far as we're concerned, Mr. Nikolic, believe me, regardless of the support you get from DS, regardless of all the time you have in the media, regardless of your historic visits to those who have fled to where you today, after ten years, go, regardless of what you have betrayed all those closest to you (in their own words) and what you take for granted yourself the right to give lessons to us who have been fighting for the same policy since we've been in politics and we deal with it, betrayal is what was heard only from you in this home, and that's your desire for Serbia to become Russian Governor. I have never heard of any MPs, this is the third term that I am an MP in this assembly, I have not heard of wanting this country to be someone's owner than you. As for foreign mercenaries, you know what, it might be a struggle for some electoral body between you and the SRS, but we've been silent about all your divisions. When you were elected here and were similarly betrayed by Vojislav Kostunica, we gave support to some principle. We don't expect you to respect the same principles, since you've issued those principles you've been dealing with politics for 20 years, but don't involve us in your internal affairs. That about foreign mercenaries, I think you should all answer why you want Serbia to be Russian leprosy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10604	Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10605	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Art. 27 and 104. Madam President, you expect MPs to stick to the agenda, and you don't react when someone here at the assembly speaker speaks for another parliamentary group or for some MP to be a traitor, to have a treasonous policy, to be a foreign mercenary, etc. Then you expect... Mr. Marash, I'm sorry, but I have to tell you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic did not state any real or false arguments. He said, "It's you to me." So, he brought out his intimate feelings for you. It's something I can't influence, no matter how much I say it. He brought out his emotion. ) Mrs. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, I don't know if you are the president of the Assembly now or if you are what you are by profession - psychiatrist. We do politics here, not personal emotions. So, Mr Nikolic addressed the assembly pay phone as the head of a party's parliamentary group, as an MP. He didn't express his emotional feelings to psychiatrists. He told the LDP parliamentary group some of the things you had to react to. Mr. Nikolic, as Mr. Andric said, it is treason to want to lead his country, specifically to Serbia, under Russian governorship. That's what you wanted. And that bribery over that we don't want the pipeline, but we want something else, which I won't repeat because it's really beneath every level that you're used to working on for 20 years, and now it bothers you when someone tells you what you're saying to others. So you tried to set us up. Mr. Nikolic, you tried to set us up against the pipeline. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] We are not against gas pipelines, we are against the way contracts are made bad for Serbia and are opposed to Serbia's interests. Madam President, please respond. We're not here for a shrink, we're not at a poetic dinner, we're here for a congregation pay phone, we're in politics. What Mr. Nikolic says he means is said and I think you should give him a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10606	Gentlemen, I ask you to keep an eye on the dignity of this House and on how you qualify Members and MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10607	Madam President, Article 27. Tomislav Nikolic directly told me I was a traitor. There's no demonstration of emotions, emotional states, personal attitudes. It's disqualification, hate language, because "the wolf's hair changes, but the temper never does" -- it's nice to say our people. It is a language of hatred that Tomislav Nikolic has demonstrated all these years since politics. He, however, demonstrates also the language of love, the language of warm human emotions towards certain people, groups of people, states, individuals, for example, according to tycoons, according to Saddam Hussein, Žirinovski, Lepen, according to the murderers of Zoran Djindjic. For them Tomislav Nikolic has words of understanding, love and praise. It's the language of your Eastern European right. You say, Mr. Nikolic, that you will always say that traitors are those who have recognised Kosovo's independence. Neither is DHSS, nor am I, as its president, ever recognised, nor will I recognise Kosovo's independence. And for what it's become, at least officially, independently, it's guilty, among other things, of your policy. The policy you've been running for years. So don't attribute what's bothering you to others. It's an old story of unclean conscience. Mr. Nikolic, it's not even worth you finishing school in '55. You stayed at that level with that vocabulary and that language you've been repeating all these twenty years since Vojislav Seselj put you into politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10608	The word is Mr. Nikolic, so Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10609	I know I deserve all your sympathy. You who speak wonderful words here for a pay phone waiting for me when I say something you don't like, that you're packing my file, if, say, I say we don't need you in a party, to come down on me, you who've done a lot for Kosovo and Metohija when you and Kostunica let Flyor Brovina and all the other Albanian terrorists, you wonderful predators, five-year-olds, who have introduced the language of love into Serbia, everywhere with honey and milk, the people living in a wonderful mood, except that sometimes the police kill a protesters, except that people who are in power have a ten-year salary in a month, except that they're getting bribed, corruption and crime, except that you've handed the financial sector into the hands of the West, except that you've brought us European prices of energy ore and raw materials, you've really done everything that you need for Serbia and Voji Sese. Yes, because you, Mr. Batic, have organized an attack on Vojislav Seselj, you have gathered witnesses against Vojislav Seselj, you have instrumented them and led them to make statements. There are witness statements certified in court. What am I talking to you about now? Because you accused me of speaking the words of love to the tycoons. Did I take 5,000 euros a month from the tycoon as an apanasy myself or you?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10610	Mr. Zoran Ostojić, then Mr. Batic, then Mr. Andric. That's the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10611	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Article 27, relating to Art. 104. We of the LDP are trying to deal with politics despite everything and despite many of you. I really don't think there's room for personal things here, because people look at us and from our personal relationships they don't have any improvement, they can only have damage. So I'm going to try to talk politics, not individuals, whatever they are. Mrs Kolundzija, once one of the presidents of Serbia, was also the party president, Mr Dacic's party and Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic. Looks like it was a long time ago, but it wasn't that long ago. That president had his favorite opposition. His favorite opposition often said what he, the then Serbian president, did not want or could not speak. It ended the way it ended, in blood, robbery, destruction of the earth. They both paid their price, one ain't alive, the other's in jail, he's being tried. If today's president of Serbia has his favorite opposition, and it is, in all likelihood, because the media space of the SRS faction, since it seceded, in a pool of what they got in the media exceeds everything the LDP has received in the media since it was established, including paid campaigns during the elections. If today's president of Serbia has his favorite opposition and if that favorite opposition, in fact, reveals that policy that the government cannot say, then I think we have a problem. And somehow it seems to me, by all accounts, that's what's happening. It happens because you are silent, because you are not being held against the insult of Montenegro that has submitted its EU membership bid, and has not submitted its candidacy for membership in the Russian Federation. So, I may be paranoid, but I just remind myself of the facts and, when I put the facts together like this, they don't make me calm. Rather, they make me restless. At least we from the LDP, who sincerely want Serbia not to be Russian Governor, but to be a full member of the EU. We also supported your government, with new European forces decorated in Dacic, Krkobic and Palma, but I really think that a little more active role towards European values and jobs that threaten those who suddenly, the other day, became Europeans would not be a waste, and I think it would benefit all of us, and in the end, I think that's what citizens who voted for those ideas expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10612	Mrs. Hope Kolundji, as head of the parliamentary group, has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10613	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 101st and 103rd. Rules of Procedure. Of course, first I'd like to ask you to get back to the agenda. What I'm trying to say is that there are views behind this speaker that are known to everyone. We have no intention of doing business with those whose attitudes we've known for almost 20 years. So it is the citizens who will measure the views of political options. What matters to us is what policy we stand for and whose support for that policy we have. We're counting on that support to do the job that the citizens have chosen us for. To measure and assess the degree of change in others is not our job, nor do we want to do it. Whom they convince, that's their business. I just don't think it's good to accuse the President of the fact that some political party is more or less represented in the media. I don't think it really contributes, first of all, to creating the atmosphere in which everyone works and is responsible for their work. The last person to be accused of such a thing is the president of this country. You must know that it is important for us that those who are ready to pursue with us the goal of Serbia being a European country in every sense, both by value, by standards and by formal membership in the EU. In that sense, they are the ones we count on and feel that we will be able to achieve that goal. I would once again ask that, on behalf of these goals, mutual controversy and persuasion over who thinks what and who thinks about Montenegro being a candidate for the EU... We, of course, welcome the efforts and results of Montenegro that it achieves on its European path. We think it's an interest of the whole region. We believe that Serbia, unfortunately, is late on that road, that it may have been able, had more luck or more responsibility and more readiness, and could be in that position alone. That, of course, does not prevent us from wishing those who have succeeded from the heart for success in the follow-up to that time. So, we understand the political attitudes and we don't see, for now, the difference in the political attitudes of those who claimed one yesterday, that they became quite so close to what we stand for overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10614	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10615	I don't see Tomislav Nikolic, he ran away from the moon, or he called him "Vucic" to share his pucks, to rip his ears out. He doesn't know what he's talking about. I don't mean to insult gravediggers, but as a character line, once a gravedigger, always a gravedigger. Whatever's going on... (President: Mr Batic, please take care of the formulation of your own thoughts. I apologize, Madam President, if you have misunderstood me. I said I treat it like a character trait, not a profession. He mentions Tomislav Nikolic who released the terrorists. A man doesn't know anything. He was in the SRJ Assembly who passed the Law on Amnesty. He is a friend of the SNP of Montenegro, who was also in agreement with the Amnesty Act. He and his hands and feet offers a partnership to Vojislav Kostunica, so let him see who let the brothers Mazreka, Flyor Brovina... He's going to the wrong address. Because if he knew anything, he'd ask around, read, look at the site, open the archives, and see what's what. The government of Zoran Djindjic, nor I as the minister of justice in the government, has ever released, abolised or amnested any Albanian terrorist. On the contrary, I fought to find them where they belong. Everybody knows that. Only one who wants to stare at reality or falsify reality is trying to make me so stupid to respect it. So, he also knows that I have not organised any hajka against Vojislav Seselj, and Vojislav Seselj knows that, as well as the MPs of the SRS. I don't think they'd be saving me if they thought I was doing it. I swore here, let Tomislav Nikolic come and swear. (From the O.R.: Who do you swear to? Well, for example, in the late Saddam Hussein. To say, "Now I'm not." So, I'm your battles. ) and many MPs were against Vojislav Seselj, led here, face-to-face. I was the only minister, if you remember, whose vote of mistrust was required. I wasn't running. I've spent three days here and I've been plowing along with the same team, Tomislav Nikolic and Vojislav Seselj. I never do anything behind my back. As for the tycoon, it would be better if Tomislav Nikolic didn't mention them. I'd like to talk about it with him. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10616	The word is Mr. Andric, then Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10617	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will no longer discuss our intimate feelings. Of course, we were always against obstruction, even if we were expressing emotion. I called in an article. 225 and 226 because I think something important happened. I think all MPs must be informed of their work to continue, and in part we see the reason for Tomislav Nikolic's attack on us. As you know, we submitted an initiative to the Constitutional Court on 16 September 2008 to assess the constitutionality of the Russian-Serbian gas-oil agreement. I have to say, we didn't have any information about what was going on with that initiative. I would like to inform all MPs that there seems to be a ray of hope for this country and a ray of hope that some institutions are doing their job. Today, we received a notice from the Constitutional Court that on Thursday, 18 December 2008, an initiative will be put on the agenda to assess the constitutionality of the gas-naphtha arrangement between Serbia and Russia. We remain in the view that this agreement, which was adopted here, is deeply anti-constitutional, or that it contains anti-constitutional parts. We appeal to the independence of the Constitutional Court, to make a decision that will justify its existence, and also, that decision should deny all the allegations that it is a party court. We also want to take this opportunity to tell the representatives of the Serbian government – to ask you once again to suspend all negotiations and sign any agreement on the sale of NIS until the final decision of the Constitutional Court. One thing is our political position here and here we defend the various initiatives we are launching, and another is the assessment of the constitutionality of what is being done. Don't put the whole country in trouble that, signing something that's against the constitution, you're causing a conflict between Serbia and the Russian Federation. Wait for the Constitutional Court to give its final assessment. We claim that the parts of that agreement are against the constitution. The Constitutional Court, if it resists the pressures, which we are sure have followed and will only follow this announcement, must maintain its independence and make a decision on it. I repeat once again, the session on which the proposal will be held on the agenda is scheduled for Thursday, December 18th, which is only two days from today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10618	Thank you. Mr. Shormaz has the word, so Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10619	Reporting under Article 104. I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been compromised. Of course, not with this argument between MPs, because it is something that is legitimate and I would not want to interfere as an MP of the DSS, but because of what she said here again in, as I once said earlier today, to the 'known how' approach of the Democratic Party of Politics and Marketing just now the president of the ZES Parliament Club, who, behold, defended herself by keeping quiet about all this that was happening. She said -- we don't want to get involved, we don't want to talk, we're just gonna let her assess what we're doing to those who are going to make that decision someday, etc. I'd like to know if they're among those who should one day make a decision, say, unions. Is it true that a few days ago, Minister Ljajic signed with them the extended fact of the collective agreement? That's right. Here, PUPS reports it's true. What then, gentlemen of the PUPS and the ruling majority, with the proposal of the budget that has arrived to us? What happened to the regress and the hot meals? Is this the Socially Responsible Government? Will you continue to lecture us in such a way, defend yourself with silence, stay out of anything, do everything the opposite of what you promised? Here, now there's the president of the SPS as interior minister. Is that what you care about the workers? Will the SPS vote for such a budget proposal? Apparently, he voted in government. What about the regression, what about the hot meal, will it be part of it? Will PUPS vote for it? How long are you going to distract us and defend yourself with silence, not interfere with anything, and do everything contrary to what the interests of Serbian citizens are? It really doesn't make sense. You bulldoze us here all the time. And it's always the opposition's fault. The opposition is constantly obstructing something and the opposition's MPs are always guilty of everything and everything that's going on. It's more important to RTS that by the 31st, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly won't be changed, because, my God, it's a constitutional obligation, even though it doesn't matter, and you all know it. Constitutional obligation is the Law on the National Assembly, not the Rules of Procedure. That's the problem. It's not this law that's on the agenda. It's not a budget problem, it's not a problem that the government was late with the budget for 40 days. And then someone comes out here again to lecture us about how they take care of the interests of the citizens. Here, today three unions were talking to me. And now I'm ordering - everyone who wants to write their own amendments to the budget. We will bear them on their behalf since the Socially Responsible Government is obviously deaf to their demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10620	The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic, according to the amendment. Here you go. You've got ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10621	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I'm a little confused, but I think the DSS has another ten minutes on the amendment. Am I right? Yeah. All right, thank you. No shorter bill of law, no greater noise about it. I'll be back on the subject. So, a very brief bill, where we're supposed to, practically, just one amendment, and that's Article 53, if I'm not mistaken. The travel documents law came into force in 2007 when the interior minister was Mr. Dragan Jocic, and this is indeed a good law, which is also seen as necessary to amend only one member. The amendment consists of replacing Article 53 of 2008 with the number of 2009 and extending the validity of current passports, official passports and diplomatic passports, which we call old passports in the jargon until 31 December 2009. It's practically the only change. As my colleague from the DSS Mr. Shami said, the original amendment that Mr. Buha submitted to this bill, where he had provided for a longer period for old passports, i.e. those old passports were valid until the end of 2010. Perhaps the minister, although it is now too late because we have this bill, Mr Dacic could consider extending the deadline by 2 years, because it is evident that there are certain difficulties in making new travel documents. We know that this summer, at least in the press, there's been some technical disturbances. Members of the Committee on European Integration know that these technical difficulties have now been removed, but there are still a number of travel documents to be made. Whether it's physically going to be feasible, I don't know. According to the road map for visa liberalisation between the European Union and Serbia countries, the first group of issues concerns document security, therefore, passports and ID cards. In this respect, Serbia is bound to issue biometric passports, which are in line with the standards of the European Commission and the International Civil Aviation Organisation, which include biometric data for photos and fingerprints. Another commitment the state has made is that it must strengthen the security of these documents and regularly inform Interpol when it comes to the loss of a citizen's passport. However, judging from the fact that the deadline for the replacement of passports is extended by one year, according to the official proposal of the minister in the Serbian government, and by some statements, it is becoming increasingly "white Schengen", i.e. the people have already started singing songs and epics about "white Schengen", so -- the epic on "white Schengen" and Serbia. Serbian citizens hoped to be able to travel without visas to Schengen countries during 2009, however, it would obviously not be so. I recall some statements mostly made during the pre-election campaign, which is that Serbian citizens will be able to travel without a visa until the end of 2008, and then a new promise appears that they will be able to make it by the end of 2009, and then Minister Djelic said a few days ago that it is not certain that it will be in 2010, or – Djekna has not yet died, and when we do not know. So the "white Schengen" is getting further and further away and we don't have any guarantees or any serious deadlines. There's really something wrong with that. Since the government of the Republic of Serbia has been formed, it has somehow been responsible for Serbia's delay in European integration wanting to transfer right to the Assembly. It has already become a famous sentence made by Minister Djelic in Brussels, so he told his lawmakers in Serbia that the assembly is a black spot on Serbia's path to Europe. But yesterday I was talking about it, but it's not burning to say that 52 laws belong to that package. European laws, although I believe that all the laws we have voted here are in line with European legislation. So 52 laws make up that package of European laws. Members of the Committee on European Integration regularly receive a report from Mr Djelic and we see where and at what stage of the law. So there are only 13 laws in the assembly procedure from that set. Some laws are in the final phase, some are in the initial phase, and some of the ministry's laws haven't even started to work yet. When he gets to the Assembly, we don't know. Citizens are told that all this is late because it is not done quickly and efficiently in the congregation. On this occasion, I want to inform the citizens that it is simply not true. So, on waiting for adoption, there are only 13 laws in the congregation. Also, I would like to invite the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government ministers to start doing their job a little bit more responsibly and not to blame others for their unhappiness. Not to blame the Assembly, let alone MPs from the opposition who do their job. The job of the opposition MP is to carefully read every bill and to deliver an amendment where a member or some solution is not good. Very often, and it happens that you only have one amendment per member, but MPs of all opposition groups want to explain such an amendment. What would be good and what is not good at this point is that we never hear the opinion of MPs who make up the ruling majority. It would be good if we could share opinions sometime, so that our colleagues from the so-called. The ruling majority, or positions, say and convince us why a solution is better to remain that way and why our amendment is not acceptable. So, the epic on the Schengen -- the white Schengen list, unfortunately, is still further away. I say, unfortunately, because there are a lot of people in Serbia who travel to countries in the Schengen area and they have a really big problem and sometimes it takes a long time, not to say it costs the whole visa procedure. There are now again excuses that Serbia is late on its way to the "white Schengen list" because of the global financial crisis, which is not a vote of the Lisbon Agreement or because of the Irish "no". Then you hear an excuse that this is because in 2009 elections are planned for the European Parliament. So both of us and our citizens are served some general excuses, that it's just sometimes funny. I expect to hear next time that we won't be able to do the white Schengen because global warming is a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10622	Thank you, Mrs. Donky Banovic. Since a number of MPs have reported to the Rules of Procedure, it is obvious that we will work much shorter today than we agreed to do. Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10623	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I have to call on Article 27 again, but I'm making some kind of a 27-member injury town, because it's essentially a breach of Article 104 that Mrs. Nada Kolundzija committed here. First of all, she said something to no one alive, it's not clear what she said. It's absolutely unclear what she said to anyone. I get the impression that she came out just to buy time, to carry out the most difficult form of obstruction of the work of the National Assembly, and you know we're late for Europe. And then he's going to go on TV or at the weekend he's going to measure who came out and say, well, you who ask the question of KIM, Vojvodina, economics, social misery, stealing mandates, chaos in the country, you're obstructing. I ask that in the voting day vote on the fact that Hope Kolundzie committed a serious injury to the Rules of Procedure. She went out, she said - we're for some policy... And all of us, let's finally hear, after 15 years, what is the policy of the DS, when – a dead end. Our policy of "nice, beautiful, July" is to live well, our policy of this, our policy in Europe, our policy here... We all agree with you, but what does that have to do with anything? These are good wishes, every citizen has good wishes, but where is that – real politics? And the real policy is: a reflection of primitives, a vote from Bodrum, a vote from Thessaloniki, a reflection of prosaclocity, that several thousand people are arrested overnight and a reflection of something that shows that DS is not compatible with the multiparty system. They simply enjoy here when some argue over political attitudes, and they wisely remain silent. Cook, roll, and keep your mouth shut. Or like Hope, they come out here -- "nice, nicer, July." We're for Europe, we're for everyone to have money, we're for everyone to live well. Well, who in this room isn't up for it? And here's the drp system, the boards of directors, the airport, the reconstruction. What was it like with that Rashete - 2,000 dinars of ficus? A spoon, what was it? No more, please. So, dear viewers, when you see these from the DS or when you see that wolf catch like this or when he does something like that, he wants to fool you. They're trying to trick you into taking three showers a day. You had Hope Kolundji in your hands. She told us something just to take our time, so we wouldn't go to Europe. The biggest obstruction is made by the very ones that are silent, because they agree with these laws where you have thousands and thousands of amendments to bear to make something seem normal. I ask you to vote in voting day on whether Nada Kolundzija has prevented Serbia from going to Europe by going out and saying something, and I am sure she does not know how to repeat what she said.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10624	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10625	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. I think it's important that I take the opportunity to have the Minister of Police Dacic here. Today, right after the break, at the exit, in front of the National Assembly, I saw that a very large group of people, these are workers of the slave houses of Belgrade, asking for help from MPs and parliament to exercise their rights. These days, there have been a lot of conversations about various crimes related to the laws we've been processing and the amendments we've been doing just before I got out. I was talking about the bankruptcy of the Slave House, and it's very important that I say a few elements. The Slave Houses went into bankruptcy in 2002, today is the end of 2008, and that bankruptcy is not even over today. They were sold several months ago for 360m euros and, although sold, the bankruptcy is still going on. Why shouldn't it last when, apparently, a bankruptcy manager, and that's the Privatisation Agency, has his own strong reasons why he thinks bankruptcy should be delayed. These reasons are called -- very high contributions to that agency, because every month it only gets to conduct a bankruptcy procedure of three million, and so much, it means three million, it gets to license a bankruptcy manager. In addition, the bankruptcy manager was obliged to submit to the Committee of Trustees a draft decision on the debacle of the bankruptcy. There is no such document today. So, day and day, no one knows what that solution looks like or what's going on. The introduction of bankruptcy into the "RK Belgrade" in 2002 has caused enormous damage to shareholders and creditors, and the damage is measured by hundreds of millions. I'm taking the opportunity to ask Mr. Dacic, as minister of police, to see what happens to the bankruptcy that lasts forever, to enter the seventh year. Excuse me, in seven years, the child born becomes the founder. The slave house bankruptcy can't be over in seven months. Take care of the slave houses workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10626	Thank you. I received the workers of the Slave House the moment they asked for a reception. We have fully agreed on what I, as president, can do, what are the most resolute ministries and what instances that can solve the problem, and I agree that the problem takes a long time and that it really needs to be solved. I think that, with the relationship that Parliament has, because they have not only addressed me, but also to individual MPs and MPs groups, they have expressed satisfaction with the understanding of all of us who have received them. Mr. Jojic, you have your word, according to the Rules of Procedure. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10627	Article 226. Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Minister of Interior, from Romans to today, from Romans, Turks, Austro-Hungarians, has never been allowed to destroy the pastures of citizens who have used for centuries. Agricultural land used by certain tycoons is a huge area and the state suffers great damage. The other day in Omolica, a settlement in the municipality of Pančevo, was destroyed by strangers who came with tractors of 110 acres of pastures of citizens who have used this land for centuries as pastures. When it comes to agricultural land, I had the opportunity to talk to people in that populated town, who are looking for an answer – what are the people who have come and overtook 110 acres of pasture and made it impossible for citizens to use pastures that they have used for centuries? Furthermore, the Ministry of Agriculture has issued agricultural land in state property. However, the tenants do not pay the state land they use. On the territory of the municipality of Pancevo Sinisa Radovanchev owes 765,000 euros, Miroslav Alex owes a sum of 267,000 euros, "Dit Agro" owes 4,146. Profiters performed an extrajudicial alignment past the court. Who made it possible for them to promise to pay off their debt without judgment or skill? The out-of-court settlement was concluded with the AD "Vojvodina" Starchevo, which owes 158,000 euros. The D.O.O. "Nicko agrar" Banatski Brestovci owes 111,000. I think the DOO is "Nicko agrar" by Nicovic Djordje. He owes 111,000 euros. A.D. "Dolovo" owes 117,000. Please, "Nicko agrar" in Banatski Brestovac illegally processes 902 hectares, AD "Pubuka" illegally uses 26 hectares, AD "Kačarevo" 129 hectares, PDP "Dunav" Ivanovo 166 hectares. Ladies and gentlemen... (President: Time, Mr. Jojic. )......................................................................................................... This is an unprecedented robbery in the agrarian, and there must be the Ministry of Agriculture involved in auditing and control and confiscation, while also launching appropriate proceedings before the competent court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10628	Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic has a word for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10629	I really think it's time we went back to work on the amendment. Europe really can't wait anymore. Today I watched what Ms. Diana Dragutinović was doing, so I decided to apply the same thing. I went to the website and looked at the citizens' comments. I think it would be very useful for all of us gathered here to see what people say about this efficiency of passing a law amending the Law on travel documents. Madam President of Parliament has said that citizens should not be terrified, as changes to the Law on travel documents and extended validity of old passports will be adopted in the voting day, certainly this week. The head of the Board of Administrative Affairs of the MUP, Zorica Loncar-Kasalica, also appealed to Serbian Parliament MPs to adopt a bill on extending the validity of old passports as soon as possible, so that a large number of citizens would not have problems from January 1st next year. Kasalica said it is in the citizens' interest to end the process of amending the law in parliament as soon as possible, so that citizens can travel with the old passports from January 1st next year and that Serbian citizens living abroad will not find themselves in a very awkward situation. What I have to remind you of is that the draft law amending the Law on travel documents in the assembly procedure has been in place since July, and about 800,000 Serbian citizens with old passports marked SRJ now depend practically on our timely decision. Now let's see what blog B92 says, or some people call it U92. He says like this -- let's do it already (they're talking to all MPs). I have an old passport and a visa and a paid ski in Italy in January (Happy. ). Next - when this week (this seems to be for Parliament's president), the deadline I set to travel to Serbia is Wednesday, will it be by then? These guys are playing us so nice. I'm sorry for the expression. ..that this is where the film is to be made. It'd be a world hit. Now something at the government's expense: Shame, let's put an end to the rotten and incompetent power and introduce pure civil democracy. Let's choose the good, exemplary and honest neighbors and the capable and proven experts in this country. Let's get rid of these drones, the profiteers and the incompetents, because it'll totally ruin us. Vojislav Krstic (as if he quoted me. ). Next - should we rejoice or cry? Who do we trust? Mrs. Dejanovic, much has been promised from the assembly pay phone, but unfortunately the citizens are not respected. We have to trust you. There's one more thing to talk about. Even if they vote, put it in the official messenger immediately, it will only apply to our customs and police. There remains a problem with customs and police officers from foreign countries, who have long since received a memo from our foreign ministry that the old passports cease to be valid on January 1st 2009. So now our ministry needs to inform all states that the old passport is still valid, and then those states need to pass that notice to all their border crossings. I don't know how realistic it is that this will be done in 100% of the time, especially if the Christmas and New Year's holidays are considered in the good part of the world. I'm afraid someone doesn't leave the country after January, and some zealous customs officer waits for him at the other end and tells him that according to his books, the blue passport is no longer valid. Just as the president claims he will, I claim that this law will not be passed. The odds are 50 to 50 -- says someone who's pretty skeptical, probably for a reason. The following comment is interesting: What a mess and a series of scandals about old-new passports. It's just amazing. In fact, Serbia is this. Anything here is possible, in a negative sense, of course. The extraction of new passports is maximumly disorganised and the whole job has been late for a year. It's not the problem of giant ranks or at least some organization that it's going a little faster. Citizens are treated like cattle, played by couriers to civil servants, brought to them by who knows which path of the birth certificate and the assurance of citizenship, as if it already existed in the MUP when the previous documents were extracted. Well, then she breaks up about the photos. Terrible, under the urgent protection of the European Union in "Serbistan". Please, help. Next, good for us citizens. Members of the non-citizen party will choose to give the people the opportunity to travel because they will extend the importance of the old passports, since the government is unable to issue new passports to the citizens until the deadline it has set. The important thing is that they have introduced the Ministry of Diaspora, and as much as they care about people outside Serbia, you can see it in this problem. It's a shame. When you adopt that law extending the validity of the old passports, please inform the foreign ministry of other countries immediately. As I recall, they were already informed of the end of the validity of the old passports on 31 December 2008. How up-to-date and safe you are, it would be best for the official list in which it will be published to print in English. It is not a bad proposal, nor that this parliament should be abolished so that only EU laws can be copied and in English, and in Serbia half of our laws are not understood, so that people can get them and take them with them when they go abroad to work, study, their lives. They've put us in a position to worry about whether or not they'll extend the passports. Now we should be grateful that the government will still do the job it's paid for. Unbelievable. Listen to this - it'll be extended. Whether or not it's extended by our politicians. You hear everything, just some multiple condicionals -- it's likely to be planned, in due course, etc. The government needs to do something concrete for this people to travel like the entire cultural world. Another interesting comment, which may be able to talk about the intentions of this government: Oh, God, hurry up with that Hungarian citizenship, so I don't have to read with the anxiety of this news. Lala from Budapest. Further, the famous situation -- I stood at the London airport for half an hour until officials eventually realized that my state was Serbia, not SRJ. What to say more, I felt like... Someone explain to me what it's got to do with the extension of the passport of the non-existent state with the fulfillment of the conditions for white Schengen. The second question is why the state did not welcome deadlines for the production of biometric personal documents. Let's stop mixing grandmothers and frogs. Are you interested in further comments or is the Government deaf to citizens' comments? But let's just talk about something. I see you're all looking at the clock, because really Europe can't wait, it's six o'clock, but let's discuss something. The opposition's deputies didn't interrupt... (President: Gentlemen of the Parliament, please be quiet, allow Mrs Jankovic to hear her. I'm gonna lose a good voice, and that's really not right for a lady. So it's not the opposition MPs who interrupted this assembly's work in July. You interrupted it to hide comments from the public about the shameful arrest of Radovan Karadzic. The ministers, of course, had very neat new passports, visas, mostly in Greece and other areas of their beloved European Union and beyond, and we, MPs of the opposition, were waiting for a final meeting of parliament to be scheduled. That's when we even believed God's Cannabis, which is November 2nd (I just have to find where God's Cannabis is, my favorite hero) said... So on November 2nd, Boza attended the presentation of documents in Paris and said this is another important step towards visa liberalisation with the EU, which will be reconsidered in the spring of next year. Djelic noted that the procedure for issuing biometric passports began in France, as it holds the rotating EU presidency, and Germany, as it has one of the largest Serbian diaspora. As for citizens living in Serbia, the diaspora's biometric passports will cost 36 euros plus 15 euros for costs. The other offices will soon be trained to collect documents for new passports. The next will be Vienna, and since 18 November -- Djelic said so. What's the fact is that we, the MPs of the opposition, are not responsible for creating the agenda of this session either. Who forced you to put on the agenda before this urgent proposal for a bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, which will only start to apply in 2010? How come you weren't in a hurry then? So this is a classic example of who actually obstructs and is deaf to the interests of Serbian citizens. While I was reading citizens' comments, government representatives were hosting something, it probably doesn't matter, or they know, or they've heard it somewhere. It makes sense for the Home Secretary to know everything, but for these others, it's a little weird. One more thing that's pretty important. Do you know that 55,000 passports have already been issued in Pristina with the inscription 'Republic of Kosovo', which are printed in Germany, meet all European standards, are obtained in seven days and cost 26 euros? Are we supposed to learn from those sites of Shipara or are we finally going to start acting like a serious and responsible state? As far as we're concerned, we're ready, and you, gentlemen of the government, are also taking care of the interests of your country and people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10630	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10631	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, 225 and 226. I'm asking Mr. Minister a question, not to list all those functions that I think he needs to answer here. Well, how do you arrest? You arrested 12,000 people, and that's why this country has to pay millions in damages. Slowly, it goes differently, you have to ask someone how this procedure goes. ) To return, this is an extremely serious thing and we expect you, Mr. Minister, to come out and tell the citizens of Serbia what awaits them right after the New Year. I know you measure it from fame to glory, from gourmets to gourmets, but there are people who work, who really go to Europe. Some of these people are drivers. You know, they'll be loading up before New Year's Eve and waiting to get on the road right away. And what will happen, Mr. Minister, when they appear at the EU border and the customs officer and the police tell them that these passports are no longer valid? The truck has license plates -- you don't know that either -- the truck doesn't need a passport, the driver needs a passport. But how can I explain it to you? How do I explain that to you, and you want to go to Europe? Aman people, come on, some basic things you need to learn. Or we could all put those earrings in your ear and then you wouldn't have a problem. There's those earring machines, but only for these chosen ones. I expect you to come out here and make a public promise to the citizens of Serbia that no one will have a problem when they show up at a border on January 1st. I'm only talking about drivers. What are you going to do about other people, not to get into it, with our gasters who came here to spend Christmas holidays, and they're going back to their jobs, so they don't come back in time, and that's why they get fired. What are you guys gonna do? You see how you play with Serbian citizens? That's funny to you. What do you care if and how many of them are going to lose their jobs, how much damage will they be? Say, Ministers, to the citizens of Serbia – what awaits us on January 1st with passports that have a deadline of importance for us, and may not have any for Europe? (President: Time, Mr. Todorovic. ) Don't forget, and Europe appreciates you, and as it appreciates you, it has given you a deadline – 2025, 2026, and perhaps 2027.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10632	Are there others interested in participating in the debate under the amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Mr Ivica Dacic, the first vice president, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10633	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam President, since the session will not continue on the next item of the agenda, I can speak for a little while longer, although I thought I was speaking briefly. One hour, I guess, is satisfactory. I'd like to remind you of the history of making new travel documents. The new passports were not invented by the interior ministry whose head I am, nor by the government whose head is Mirko Cvetkovic, but by the previous government. In this House, we passed the Law on travel documents in 2007. In this assembly of parliament, whose member I was then, and my vote passed the law, which defined the importance of new passports to last until the end of this year, it was then next year. And then there were different attitudes, and then there was a question of whether it would arrive or not, whether it was a deadline that was too short, etc. I'd like to say that it was too late to start making passports, but I wasn't too late for me and this ministry, the previous government was late. I was elected Home Secretary on July 7th this year. That's when the passport was released. And so please, those who were members of the previous government, don't give criticism so easily. Someone here says the government failed to keep a promise. True, but the previous government, which proposed and voted this Law on travel documents (in which it was also DS, of course). Anyway, I certainly wasn't a member of that government. I took over the MUP on July 7th, and I already applied to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly on July 28th to extend the period for the validity of the old passports. And that's what one MP here said, I don't remember which, perhaps Mr. Shormaz or anyone else, anyway. I've waited a long time for this law to come on the agenda. I have to tell you, there were big problems making passports. First, I think it's a bad legal solution. It's not about the M.O.P. giving someone else to make passports. The law adopted defines the passports to be made by the NBS, i.e. the Banknote Office. I don't think that's a good decision, because the M.E.P. has no insight or jurisdiction in the process being carried out there. It was late, among other things, because not all the necessary funds were provided. Here it is written - the means needed to buy software, to buy machines, to make passports, polycarbonate pages, etc. I think that's a bad solution. Why is it bad? I want to tell all citizens of Serbia who are angry with the MUP that they need to know that no money they pay is going to the MUP, but is going to the Bureau for making bills, or coins, and those of our police officers are doing what they do on the basis of the revenues they receive from the budget. So we, in the making of passports, basically, are left with the part about establishing the specification of what kind of passport should be and waiting for that passport to be made and for our workers to receive those requirements and applications on the counters. The objectively, and on July 7th, since the issue of passports began, it has been clear that, according to the technical capacities that exist in the MUP, the corresponding dynamics of making new passports and the expectations of how many citizens will when to apply, will not be able to replace the old passports by the end of this year, or to extract new passports. That's why our proposal was to extend the validity of the old passports for another year. So it's not the issue of 1st European integration and the 'white Schengen list' that requires the making of a new passport, but it is a condition for the security of personal documents. That's why the M.O.P. and in the last term, practically, went into the making of new IDs, new ID cards and new passports. We also agreed that, technologically speaking, we are monitoring these processes that are happening in Western Europe. Why? So it doesn't happen that after a year, when we get our citizens to replace passports, someone remembers and says new programs and software have been invented, so in three years we're taking new passports. Serbian citizens cannot be a slave to someone's ignorance or suffer the consequences of poorly-led politics! I will banish it in the MUP, both in the NBS, and in the Banknote Making Institute, I will determine all responsibility if there is any technical error that will make Serbian citizens do so in the coming period. Technology's progressing. Since the end of 2009, you have to put a fingerprint on the chip. Our passport chip must have technical opportunities to receive something like that. English systems already mean so-called "Iris system", i.e. I.D. through the pupil of the eye. We need to know all of this, and not only are we talking about European integrations as "Our Father" but we don't know what it means in technical matters. Because this is about us having to meet non-political conditions when it comes to visa liberalisation. We need to meet everything, both legal and technical, conditions so that our borders are safe, personal documents are secure, simple, to create such a system that is in agreement with the Schengen system, so that we can be part of the Schengen space, that is, that is, the end, that we can be on the white Schengen list at all. There was no move to start making passports after the new government arrived. He was moved back in the time of the technical government. It didn't start in time. But even if it had started in time, it wouldn't have happened. So I think when we talk about it here, we can blame each other as much as you want, but I'm just saying this is a job we have to do. I would really ask you all that, regardless of the party differences, we do not cause further misinformation of our citizens. So our passports are valid, they'll still be valid after New Year's Eve. Since Dragan Todorovic asked me if citizens will have problems, there will be no problem. But I am also asking – when will the Assembly adopt this bill? If you adopt it, Serbian citizens will have no problems after 1 January of next year. I want to end this in one good spirit. [[Applause]] I think it is very important to adopt this law as soon as possible, because, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the second member of these amendments and the addition of the Law is that the law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger". I really ask you once again, not as a minister or as someone who deals with this job, but on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so that we can complete all of these formalities that will allow citizens of Serbia to travel uninterrupted in the coming period. Not to owe for this now, there were several questions, Mr. Todorovic asked the question as to the death of Panic. As you know, that's the procedure. The gatherings are under way. The prosecution, the court and police will determine who is responsible for the death of Rank Panic. I want to make it clear to everyone here, and I am also talking about these cases in Arangelovac or elsewhere, as minister I will fight with all my forces to improve police status, to improve the state's relationship with police, because of the specificity of the work the police are dealing with. But on the other hand, I will also insist that the police strictly adhere to the law, respect human rights and, of course, that anyone who has violated or overstepped his powers is responsible for that. The police are here to serve the people, the people should respect the police. Of course, anyone who oversteps his powers or breaks the law should be found where he belongs. Mr. Buha asked me about Croatia. I don't see him, I think he's out. In any case, when I was visiting, and I want to say that the police in the region have to cooperate, regardless of the political views of the states of which we are ministers or MPs, because, you know, in all organised crime groups, there are mostly representatives of all the peoples of the former Yugoslavia, who get along extremely well when it comes to organised crime. In order to fight organised crime, co-operation by the police in the region is necessary. Of course, then I also spoke with representatives of Serbs in Croatia, with Mr. Pupovac and Mr. Uzelec. In any case, the state of Serbia should take care of Serbs living in Croatia, Republika Srpska, Montenegro and, as you know, our Constitution has allowed and the right of all those who feel that they also have Serbian citizenship. At the very end, I would like to say that this is a law concerning all citizens and, independently of it, I would like to call on all the political parties sitting in this House, I would also call on Parliament's leadership and the ruling majority to well-design a further continuation of Parliament's work, so that we can bring this session to an end. I think it would be disastrous for the citizens of Serbia to have problems because we cannot pass this law within the planned timeframe because of their passports. Anyway, Mr. Todorovic, I'm not really accusing, like I said, of the opposition or the government. I think we all have a responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. We were not elected by Serbian citizens here to make their lives miserable, but to help them solve their basic life issues. This is a matter of fundamental importance to all people. We have thousands of requests, letters, questions whether passports are valid or not. I just want to tell you this -- 162.196 requests for new passports have been accepted so far. Three seats were opened abroad -- Dusseldorf, Paris and Vienna, and 881 requests were accepted. It's a small number of people who have new passports. The largest number of Serbian citizens who have passports still have old passports. That is why I think it is of interest to find a way to vote this law, to come into force so that Serbian citizens can travel uninterrupted after 31 December of this year. Of course, I think, too, that this law should have been on the agenda earlier, not waiting for the last days. There were probably always some cross-species, it was probably thought to be one technical law, technical question, one member of the law, etc. Unbound for whether it is in power or opposition, in any case, I would ask all MPs that, when we vote on this, we have in mind that everything remains, practically, half of this month for realisation, for the adoption of this law, for entry into force, means, eight days from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" and, of course, what Mr. Todorovic was talking about, the necessary coordination with other police institutions around the world and through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with all states, so that our citizens do not have problems when travelling. I would like to warn all Serbian citizens that they have no reason to worry too much, because I am sure that both MPs and all of us sitting here will have a responsible relationship with this issue, so that the citizens of Serbia will not be harmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10634	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for the concrete, exhaustive and extremely pragmatic address of parliament and citizens of Serbia. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic, although not usual after the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10635	Still, there are some things I have to say. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if there were an opposition minister, perhaps Mr Dacic would have earned that title. Among other things, Mr. Dacic has brought here the most severe possible charge against the current government and against the previous government. You sitting there were both members of both governments. What Mr. Dacic said is absolutely true. You can go on as long as you want, but that's facts. It really doesn't make sense. We weren't in that government, you were. It's not worth it, Milos had a saying that the easiest way to learn was through a bag, a sweater and an ass. With you, it seems, this method should be applied. Well, my people, you're... (President: Mr. Todorovic, please bring an end to the address. You haven't called any members. I did, on the line. (President: Replica Minister? He's not the Minister of the Holy Cow, so I can't replicate it to him. Please don't. You see, whenever we get to the arguments, they run away, they won't hear. It is a relationship to the Assembly, it is a relationship to the citizens of Serbia. You've put them in a position two days before the New Year's Eve we need to pass this law whether the old passports will be valid or not and you're still trying to charge the MPs with the opposition. You were best told by Ivica Dacic who was responsible and why. Because of the crime, because you were robbing who would take the equipment to work, who would get a job for printing passports, who would get a commission out of it. That's your problem-- crime and commission. That's why you brought the citizens of Serbia into this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10636	Mr. Shormaz has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure. I don't think the atmosphere is in line with the usual practice, that after the minister's speech, I'm closing the search, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10637	I can agree, but you gave Mr. Todorovic your word, you didn't finish the debate, and I'm calling for article 104. Really, look at this atmosphere. I don't know why the MPs got up, first of all the Democratic Party. All I can say is that I agree with Mr. Secretary. I guess it's kind of nice for people in power. I think most of what he said is true, especially for the Ministry of the Interior. It is true that this situation is also the fault of the previous government, but it is certainly the one, because December and it is in power long ago, and those who have long negotiated that this government is formed (which is officially in front of cameras, which is unofficially in the cafes and basements, both with whom), but in any case, there are Serbian citizens. What Minister Dacic didn't say, and I'm going to say, it's one of his current colleagues, most of all, who is Deputy Prime Minister like him, named Bozidar Djelic. He is responsible for all this, along with the National Bank of Serbia and Jelasic. Serbian citizens are in trouble because of this. Absolutely not because of the M.O.P. That's what I'm saying. It's true that when the minister came, he did the best he could, as fast as he could, to get it in the process as possible. But I'll remind you of one more thing. This law was already in the process once, so it was withdrawn, in this assembly and with this government in power. If it was a rush, why did you bring it to tea, why didn't you know to predict what was going to happen? Why were you 40 days late with the budget, even with this? Then the opposition is guilty of obstruction and RTS says it's the opposition's fault that December 31st will not be changed by the Rules of Procedure. Really. The biggest problem for Serbia is that December 31st will not be amended by the Rules of Procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-16-0.u10638	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I called for today's session to be attended by Mrs Jasmina Benmansur, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Ljerka Ecimovic, head of the Association Registry Department. I also welcome our minister who is here. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Officials (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Milorad Buha, Aleksandar Martinović, Sreto Perić, Momir Marković, Milorad Krstin, Vjerica Radeta and Dusan Marić. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Buha. Here you go.
