ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5312	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that at this point in the hall, 88 MPs are present, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. (Zoran Krasic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to take a look at this side? Hold on, and I have a right to finish. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Ruzica Stojiljkovic, assistant director of the Treasury Administration. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. THE YEAR AND AMENDMENTS OF THE FINANCIAL PLANS FOR 2008 The year of the Republic Fund for Pension and Invalid Security, the National Employment Service and the Republic Health Insurance Agency, I would like to inform you that the LDP MP group has authorised it to represent MP Zoran Ostojić on this agenda point. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, and then Mrs. Witcha Radeta, and then Mr. Buha and that'll be all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5313	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, when MPs point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you should probably interpret it as a serious warning and notification that something is wrong with the work at the National Assembly session. I remind you again of your obligations under article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today, if you allow it, although I see a new climate this morning, I'm going to take the housekeeper to the market, and I'm going to stop by the Assembly to hold a session of the Finance Committee. Okay, we'll do it another time. I warn you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, a fight is being fought in this country to contain crime, and the National Assembly must not encourage crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5314	Please allow Mr. Krasic to speak uninterruptedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5315	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, these don't bother me at all. It is important for me that the citizens of Serbia hear what it is. I propose, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that the National Assembly draw a conclusion that will either prohibit Bozidar Djelic from entering the National Assembly building or initiate criminal proceedings against him. He went abroad and made a statement that you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, Nada Kolundzija and other black holes are on Serbia's path to the EU. So he insulted the National Assembly as a state body, pointed out to the outside that something was wrong with this group of citizens who are here and just to remind you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, a few months ago he came from this place and began to whine here like that Italian stud in Sava Center a few days ago, let's go, come on, you know, in Europe. He hasn't been in here since...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5316	Please use decent terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5317	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5318	I wanted to ask you to use decent terms when you're talking about the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5319	The word Kerebecchi means that it is uncontrollably showing mimicry and that is a congruent action that offends the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of Serbia. It's not a bad word, it's not an insult, it's not a slander. That's exactly the word that describes it nicely. He smudged $11.5 million when he came in here with a bag, and now he's going around the world muddling his country and state organs. You must jump and say, either that he no longer enters here, or that a criminal case should be brought against him, or that you should seek his salvation, for he has offended the National Assembly, and the National Assembly, among other things, has the left side. Take care of who you send abroad to represent Serbia. The question is, is he even a representative of the Republic of Serbia where he goes and where he says these things? Please do something, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not a black hole. It's not a black hole. Let him think about what he's doing. Please, don't encourage crime, stop crime. Now this is proof that crime is in the government of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time. ) The first vice president, Deputy Prime Minister, should be arrested by another vice president, who does these things and insults the entire country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5320	Mrs. Verica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Krasic, whenever my explanation would be an additional reason to irritate you and to continue the controversy, simply, you know, as you use the figures of style, it may be that Mr. Djelic used some style figure, and I really am unable to explain the motives, we will do so in direct contact with him. I understand what you're saying, but I don't think you'll be satisfied with this way of explaining me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, reporting on the basis of article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic said a few minutes ago that there are conditions for the start of today's work. I would like to get to know the National Assembly that there are no conditions for the work of parliament, that the majority of parliament, this is a notice for the citizens of Serbia, does not want to pass a law on amendments and amendments to the Budget Law, i.e. colloktimally, to adopt budget rebalancing, because the assembly majority does not allow this parliament and assembly committees to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the assembly majority, today this parliament has been brought into such a situation that it is difficult to find a way out until you decide and agree with who you are agreeing with, specifically with the president of the state, Boris Tadic, it will not be possible to work in this parliament as long as you Members of Parliament, who indeed are, do not allow them to work here and on assembly committees. We just had something that someone called a session of the Assembly Committee, which, of course, was not so, there were several MPs, the session was led by someone who is not a member of this Parliament on the basis of Article 102(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, believe it or not, Serbian Radical Party MPs could not get a word at the rally that someone called the Finance Committee. So until the issue is resolved, until the real financial committee is reunited and the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are able to reach out to the Finance Committee to state their position on the draft budget rebalances, it will not be possible for this parliament to operate because the condition laid down in Article 151 has not been met. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You can't say that you have the board's opinion, because you don't have it, you can't say that the board met because it didn't. Here are the MPs who attended the meeting, please tell them whether the Serbian Radical Party MPs were allowed to speak at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5322	Thank you. We'll have a report from the Finance Committee, Mrs. Ljiljak is determined to file the report. We have information that there are isolated opinions, material in writing is just forming, so after this material that we get, it's going to be a reason, if we have to establish certain irregularities in work, to do so and possibly repeat the session, if there are elements to it. Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday the government, considering problems in the energy system and the current problems in the price of natural gas, made a hasty one decision that effectively denied all these talks that we had on the Committee on Finance, the Serbian Parliament and the general public. The general public was shaken by this high natural gas price, by an increase of 60% for households. This government decision 15 days ago draws not only economic and financial elements, but it also has a political character, but we will remain on this economic and financial issue. On the Finance Committee, we discussed all information relating to the conditions, the way in which natural gas is purchased and distributed. We've been finding all these problems. We have asked the Agency for Energy, as the most responsible state institutions in this area, and we have also asked the Ministry of Mining and Energy, to review and, together with the Energy Agency, take a position and to go with a proposal for a price correction, whether in total, to shut down this decision or to correct the price of natural gas. The government made a decision yesterday, not taking care of everything we talked about. What we found on the Committee and here in the Assembly is that the price of natural gas is unacceptable right now. Households can't pay for that. The Serbian Radical Party's stance is to put out of force and the first decision to increase natural gas prices and yesterday's decision on gas subsidies. According to yesterday's decision, consumers would pay in two wars. The first war would be 62.5%, and the second war in six months would be 37.5%. It is unacceptable for both of us, so we ask the Energy Agency, the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the Serbian Government to withdraw one and the other decision, to look at all the elements again and make a fair decision. People can't pay for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5324	Thank you. Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5325	Madam President, I'm reporting from Article 104, and I'd like to speak to you, Madam Minister. Namely, when Mr Cvetkovic submitted his exposés and presented his new cabinet, we were written in your work biography that you are one of the financial experts and someone who will be at the head of the ministry that you have inherited from the current prime minister, which is not the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, but it stands in your work résumé, to make our financial system and that our policy in this sense is much better economically than it is so far. We openly doubt that, and we wanted to talk about this point of the agenda and the amendments that we have submitted. But, Mrs Dragutinovic, you were brought, thanks to Nadia Kolundzija and the Democratic Party, above all to Democratic Party President Boris Tadic, in a very unpleasant situation. You, as a woman who is a financial expert, have now the situation that someone, falsely presenting as a citizen, would say Col. Komic, from the street, as Mr. Krasic says, is going to the market or to the butik, I really don't know where that person has been going since this morning, stopped by the Assembly and wants to chair the Finance Committee. This undermines your dignity as a financial expert, that some person on the street, not to use some harsher term not to get a warning, but I won't do it, wants to talk to you as an equal partner in a business called the debate on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Well, that's amazing. You know, you should ask yourself about the fact that you are then with you, because you are a minister in the government, with the legitimacy that you have and who has given you the majority of the congregation, and what the congregation remarks want to explain to you is a person who is not a Parliamentarian and who obviously wants to do so, through abuse, and through the true culmination of immorality that shows as a person, to behave and to continue to destroy the dignity of this assembly. That's why, first of all, Mrs. Kolundji is responsible. Mrs. Kolundjia, you are in a situation where you do not have and there will be no session of the National Assembly until what is called the theft of the mandate and violation of the will of the MPs is corrected. Look what this is, People's Messengers. Application for the lists of MPs participating in the discussion, here are the names of some citizens. Why didn't you put one of eight million voters in? Why didn't you put that it could appear in the assembly hall of some Serb from Kosovo and Metohija, some hillbilly from Šumadia, a flag worker, but you're putting the names of immoral people who are nothing in this assembly and you're still telling us that together with us, with our integrity and with what we got from voters, this person will participate in the debate? It really won't work. Ask yourself the fact, Madam Minister, why they brought you into such a humiliating situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5326	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I believe that a member of the 78th Rules of Procedure has been broken on the Finance Committee, since this Rules of Procedure is also governed by the work of the Committee, or by the working bodies of the Assembly. In fact, some SRS MPs were just present at the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia and, in the context of the Rules of Procedure and in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, wanted to exercise their right under Article 78. When all the members of the Finance Committee used their right to speak, SRS MP Zoran Krasic answered and received his word, and after only a minute or a minute and a half he was brutally interrupted and his word was taken away. The fact that whoever, I would say, is usurping the president's place because it doesn't belong to him didn't like what Mr. Krasic was saying, that's the thing of the committee chairman, but no one on the board is a judge and no one has the right to say the political weight of the words of the man who speaks the scale, scale, interrupts him and takes away his word. Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you will have to stop closing your eyes to the fact that in this parliament too, what belongs to the SRS, is being usurped, and all of this has been reflected in the committees of the Republika Srpska Assembly. You will finally have to understand that the thesis here advocates and promotes Mr Krasic, which is that what represented a stone in the SRS boot is cast out, slowly becomes a stone around the neck of all of you who do and represent the congregation majority. We are becoming less and less willing to endure such usurpation and in some way I warn you that the SRS will, in accordance with the law, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, defend its rights in the May 11th elections, seek and demand that they return to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5328	The word is Mr Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to inform you that a recent assassination attempt has been made on another journalist, the editor-in-chief of Geopoliticals, Mr. Slobodan Eric, by sabotaging his vehicle. Fortunately, the man is alive and well, but on this occasion I would like to remind you that a bomb was recently found in the "Kurira" newsroom, which could have endangered members of this newspaper, also members of the "Glass of the Public" and the "Thunder" weekly. I remind you, too, we all know that the murdered journalists Slavko Curuvija and Mr Pantic from Jagodina. So we really need to ask ourselves if the state is doing everything in its power to protect journalists, because I guess we all know what the role of journalists is, what their function is. So modern democracy and the modern state are unimaginable without the work of journalists. I therefore hope that the authorities will examine the latest attack on the editor-in-chief of Geopoliticals, that they will establish all facts and circumstances and inform the public about what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5330	I'm opening a principled search on the bill... Mr Krasic, again, I wasn't sure you really wanted another word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5331	This is where the dioptria syndrome spreads as a problem. I am so graciously speaking to you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that I am simply surprised that you do not see me lifting the Rules of Procedure. It can't be like you imagined. Article 27. You are now directly encouraging the development of crime in the Republic of Serbia. Here, you see that my opinion is shared by some who belong to that criminal group. Here's the thing. Whether or not the National Assembly is a black hole is not a figure of style. I can criticise power in the National Assembly and use stylish figures, so let me say, the government of Mirko Pacera, because his nickname is Pacer, but I can't think of going abroad and saying, "Pacer government." Djelic went abroad to muddle his country, the highest authority in the Republic of Serbia called it a black hole, and you say - a stylish figure. He could've gone abroad and said -- the president of the National Assembly, said the worst, and you'd say he's a figure of speech. No, but you would invite him, and you would say, "What are you talking about?" Boris Tadic? Not if Boris Tadic has authorized you. The government responds to the National Assembly. How can we control the government if you go beyond the fact that a deputy prime minister of the government goes and attacks the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, and in this Serbia, he becomes even the duke of a bank, admitted that he has earned 11 and a half million in a year and a half; small, too smart. Who is it that can rise beyond the state authorities and above the state authorities? We had one case. The National Assembly brought resolution and said -- Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija not to go to the vote, what UNMIK organised. One put over the state, Boris Tadic, called for them to go to the polls, exited 0.06%. You can't get over this. How does he represent a country abroad when he attacks the most authorities in his country? It's an unprecedented scandal. This didn't happen anywhere. When did someone happen to attack their country and leave as a member of the delegation to represent the state? And we're going as a parliamentary delegation abroad, so we represent our country, so when did I say something bad about my country? We laughed when we were in Ireland a year and a half ago, and we were laughing. We asked for an Irish miracle, they get baptized, the Irish say-- which fool told you we were a miracle. We say - Mladjan Dinkic. What a miracle, 25 years old, he says, we can't make ends meet. Is that how it was, where Obradovic is? Well, that's what happened. But we haven't attacked our country again, no matter how politically we differ. This is a classic example of something that cannot be tolerated by the National Assembly and cannot be justified by figures of style. I expect you, under article 27, to apply the Rules of Procedure, to respect the Constitution and the law and to expect you, as president of the National Assembly, to file criminal charges against Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5332	Mr Krasic, your findings regarding the formulations that Mr Djelic may have used will be forwarded to the government and to Mr Djelic and we expect the answer and his comment on this. We'll see if there are any elements to anything else. I think as a man who respects and knows the law and procedures at all, at this point you agree that the Assembly can't do anything more than I suggested. Are you satisfied? You're not again. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, at this point, a number of rules of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly have been violated. If you continue this progress to violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure, it seems to me that only these covers will be unhurt in a few hours. I have to intervene because a large number of rules of the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly have really been violated. First, let me warn you that a large number of provisions violate you personally. Article 27 says the president takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then says in Article 104: MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Are you a People's Messenger? Yes, it is. Do you respect the dignity of the National Assembly? Not right now. Article 27. The Rules of Procedure taxed that all committees exist as committees of the National Assembly. In the first third, I want to believe that it was done in a way that mattered. There's also been said to be a Finance Committee. The responsibility of the Finance Committee is then accurately described in Article 52. This morning we had, I don't know, an appointment session of the Finance Committee and not chaired by someone who should be chairing. You know, I'm often asked by citizens, and who's the chairman of this board, who's that, so they ask who's the chairman of the Finance Committee. I can't say it's one of the MPs and I say it's not there and it's not the only committee that doesn't have its own president. You are obliged to care for the dignity of the National Assembly, you know, not only in this session, but also in relation to meetings of the committees chosen by the Assembly. Please make an urgent effort to resolve this problem because here, in addition to our own interests, the interests of the MPs, we must also protect the interests of the citizens of Serbia and how to protect them. Do we perform our role in accordance with the law, with the will of the citizens and in accordance with this Rules of Procedure if we have a situation in which someone who is not the chairman of the Committee and someone who, to make the situation worse, is not even a MP. Please, in relation to Article 151, you know well that when a budget change is discussed it must also give its opinion to the Finance Committee. Someone who dared and thought he should chair the Finance Committee has not even allowed a single member of the SRS MP to speak, and who is a member of the Finance Committee, and no one who wanted from the MPs to participate in the work of the Finance Committee, to have the final position of the Finance Committee before this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5334	Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5335	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you obviously don't take me seriously. I'm calling on Article 27 again. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I warn you and inform the public of Serbia, MPs left, right and balcony, and Mr. Micunovic, welcome Mr. Micunovic. We have a duty to prevent crime, we cannot encourage crime. For nearly two months, you have been stimulating crime of unsuspecting proportions by your insatiable, passive, and cobayage business attitude toward some issues in the National Assembly. He also has his own material value. You will hear how the day goes, you will understand that you are protecting criminals, but I expect you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to regain the reputation of the National Assembly, not to undermine your reputation. So we don't get into a market situation, so let's stop by the National Assembly and get him to chair. The General's crying. Let's go to the Assembly and cry. Don't, please, knock it down. Take the Constitution and the law, apply, everything is common knowledge. Fifteen days I'm warning you what's going to happen and what's going on, which can be a lot bigger, not for these people, they've done what they've done, will be what's going to happen, but for the legality of the work of the National Assembly. If you continue to lower that level, then you are going to order Boris Tadic who wants to be an absolute dictator in the Republic of Serbia. He also determines the budget, and foreign policy, determines everything. You've seen him yourself, you ask him for his budget, he tells you better than the finance minister. It's more like it's the kind of thing that works on the subject every day. Simply, all issues of vital interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, he believes these are issues of his jurisdiction and is acting accordingly. We cannot carry out our basic function in the National Assembly, in addition to the regulation and control of the exercise of power. We can't. Why can't we? Because these levers and these paws were consciously inserted so that the National Assembly would not work legally. To whom does the illegal status correspond? Let me remind you, the worse, the better. It's from Mexi's speech, it matches those on the left, which no matter what party they are, they're always in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5336	Mr. Krasic, on the reputation and dignity of the Assembly, we can all work equally, both you and I, of course. I'd like to do it again for the public to remind you that I fully understand your tendency and your objections, but the authorities that need to plead to all the dissatisfactions you have are absolutely not here in this room. It's from the Administrative Board, through the courts, to the RIK. I also call on all those organs from this place to act in accordance with the law. I truly fully understand the dissatisfaction you have, but I am not in a position to come from this place, nor is Parliament able to meet the needs you have, both political and very specific requirements you have. I suggest we work on the agenda today, and once again I call on every instance in the state to give answers in accordance with their powers. Mrs. Verica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can appeal to Article 27 or Article 104. Rules of Procedure, it doesn't matter. One member and another were violated, but it is about the fact that there are some pretty dangerous things happening here for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia, and that it is not just formal violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The assembly majority consciously puts us in a position to advertise the formal violations of the Rules of Procedure or the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, just so that some of the things that are happening in the country are out of sight and out of the public. It is now clear to us, in fact, that from the very beginning, why Boris Tadic, along with Nikolic, tried to break up the SRS as the strongest opposition party. Thank God it didn't work, but that's why there's a group of non-national MPs sitting here, and that's what suits the congregation majority, which corresponds to Boris Tadic. As we deal with whether we have a board session or we do not have a committee session, whether citizens or MPs are sitting here, we are informed about many things that are happening in Serbia from the media. So we're asking a question and, of course, during the day, we're going to repeat those questions, because we're not getting answers, you know, you're acting like nothing's happening. You think the citizens of Serbia are foolish, when you say, first inform the citizens that the gas will be collected by 60%, and then someone from the ruling coalition says that the price will still be returned to the beginning, there will be no such collection; then you break down who signed the contract, who had the authority, who didn't, where some huge commission went. And then finally we hear the minister say that it will make it easier for the citizens by paying the gas price twice a month, which is really fragrant. You haven't done anything for the citizens of Serbia, you're just trying to trick them. I'll keep going on about other problems since it's been three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5338	Mr. Milorad Buha's doing business.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to talk in this House about the latest solutions and decisions of the government, because they cause some problems in public and we need to get out of them in such a way that through the assembly debate we point to everything that the state authorities, and ultimately the irresponsible government, are doing in practical solutions. We need to get back to increasing natural gas. We need to talk about it, and we need to find a solution, because this citizen's price can't pay. When we discussed in this House the government's latest decision to increase natural gas prices, we pointed to all the problems in the organisation of importers and gas distributors. We pointed out the huge margins of distributors, ranging from 30 to 40 percent, as a retail margin, if we add the wholesale margins, almost half the price is halved. If we throw this amount of retail-sale margins out, bring it down to some reasonable extent, here's how we can reduce the cost. The government is not thinking about it, and the state authorities in the area, the Energy Agency and the Ministry of Mining and Energy are also not thinking. They have to think. This is current, and we need to talk about it here, because the state system isn't working. We have to say that the government has given consent to the increase in the price of telecommunications services, with such percentages that we haven't remembered since 93, from that inflation that we all know. They gave this to the public company that had the biggest profit from all state-owned enterprises in Serbia last year. Telekom won 11.5 billion or 140m euros last year. This company allows the state to increase the price, so they have quite enough resources and make a large profit based on the monopoly position. Same situation with gas distributors. This government, this state and state authorities allow monopolies to do whatever they want, and therefore the position of the SRS: everything must be restored to its initial positions. The government must review all this increase, get relevant information from state authorities, the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and only then come up with the right solution here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5340	Miss Natasa Jovanovic. I would just like to inform you, you have already received a written report that the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held a session this morning, with the topic - the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia, that the session was completed, that the session was attended by Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister. On the basis of Article 79. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Financial Committee, submitted a report: The Committee decided to propose to the National Assembly most of the votes to adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the 2008 Budget Act in principle. Most of the votes, the Committee decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt proposals for decisions on granting consent to the amendments and amendments to the 2008 financial plans of the Republic of Pension and Invalidity Insurance Fund, the National Employment Service and the Republic Health Insurance Institute. At the Committee session, the opinion was set out by MPs Mladen Grujic and Slobodan Maras, members of the Committee. The Committee's rapporteur at the meeting of the Assembly has been appointed MP Branko Ljiljak, vice-president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5341	Thank you, President, although you have given me your word, I have waited for you to read this important information, but it is indeed in the context of everything we have said since the beginning of the session, the illegality of the work of the Assembly Finance Committee. On the basis of Rules of Procedure and Article 100, I would like to use my business rights to ask a question under Articles 225 and 226 and direct it to Minister Dragutinović Diana, and above all to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic and Vuk Jeremic. Our country is in an extremely difficult situation and the situation in KIM is getting worse and worse every day. What is devastating and that Serbia, not only with KiM, but also in Serbia, cannot accept is the fact that by today, on October 24th, more than 2,000 police officers from what they say is the largest EU mission in our southern province, so-called. EULEX, as judge and special advisers, whose goal, as planned by Martti Ahtisaari, who has rejected our country, is to provide the necessary support, they say, to Kosovo institutions, started by police, through the judiciary. And of course, everything they do is contained in the Shipar Constitution, which our country has rejected, and all previous resolutions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time as we here have to protect the people's will, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, there are 268 polling stations in KIM, here's to connect two things here. Of the 268 polling stations, over 200 are winning with over 50% of the vote, the SRS and the SRS list, Vojislav Seselj. Somewhere in the municipality of Strpce, these results are so expressed that you have polling stations, my colleague Kragovic will correct me if I am wrong, where with 80% beat by SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj. We here, wanting to defend our country, first and foremost because of this alarming statement coming from EU representatives, a certain Ivo de Kermabon, or already as it is called, that the agreement between Belgrade and the EU on EULEX is near, which means giving up our southern province. We are watched by Serbs with KIM, these people went to the polls in occupied areas on 11 May and circled the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj election list. They, like all other Serbian citizens, have been deceived. Their feelings and their concern for the state and that they're the dam... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, out of all these attempts, therefore, the naked forces, to take away our territories, they now see that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia those who have not been elected from that list which they have voted for, and those who have said, in the right sense, that citizen, the disgrace for Serbs with KIM, because they also have an opinion on her. Mrs Dragutinović, I apologize, I remembered your work biography, not only is this person who is falsely representing himself not an expert, he may be an expert in financial malversions of Vukic and Nikolic, but he certainly is not the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5342	National MP Momir Markovic, then Mrs Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5343	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when something goes wrong from the beginning, I can't expect good results. I agree with Mr. Buh, that we must return to the price of gas and all the dances that you, the Euromercalias of the yellow company, have done all the time to this day around that price. The increase in gas prices at once 60% and right on the household, to those you've robbed in the last eight years, you've taken their skin off their backs. Now, after a lot of negotiations, after a lot of "interventions" of some of your concluded coalition, some got angry, and they said they were going to go into general revolt, to run broad crowds, etc. Turn out - the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. You took care of the guy who was angry, he was unhappy with the previous distribution, and now he took advantage of the opportunity to loosen up a little bit and fine, and the citizens remained at a price of 60%. Now you've made up your mind - we're not going to take that money, we're going to take it from you in 15 days. What's the benefit of citizens not paying in one job, but in two wars when the price is 60% higher. I asked the question, I didn't get the answer, and I don't expect him to get it, because this government doesn't think that the MPs need to forward the answer. What about domestic gas? Whose production is it? Whose price is it, far cheaper? Our finds that are in Vojvodina, pay the price, import gas plus domestic gas, and then get to the price of gas. Some industry pays the import price of gas, but some households pay the price of domestic gas, so don't pay for it. What about the salary of the director of Serbiaagas? Three days ago, when it was known who would be the director, you announced that the director has 12,000 euros: three thousand euros in salary, 9,000 euros as chairman of the Management Board, that's 12,000. All the time, when others were sitting in that place, they were receiving 12,000 euros and no one was missing hair from their heads, even hiding it. Of course, the high salary of the director is 12,000 euros, and of course we will always fight it and, of course, we will ask that all the salaries of the directors of public enterprises and others be paid in normal frameworks, because you can't now say that it should pay 60% of the price of gas, and that the director of the company has 12 000 euros. (President: Time. ) Of course all this can happen when citizens are still sitting in the Assembly, I end up in half a minute, when committees are chaired by citizens, when some need two packs of paper towels... (President): Please finish your thought. I'm done. I'm afraid to move on because some of them are going to cry here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5344	Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 100 and on Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform myself, as a national MP, through the President of Parliament, and from the competent authorities in this country -- what kind of state of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of Serbia, is the real policy of water in relation to KIM? I'm not asking this for no reason, but because we from the media are informing ourselves about various moves or test balloons that are being released to the public, I guess the ruling coalition and the president of the Republic are assessing what reactions they are making for the Serbian province of KIM. I also said in previous days that Boris Tadic is somewhere in the white world, and we saw it in the media, said Serbia would have a flexible relationship, i.e. a more flexible relationship when it comes to KIM. Afterwards, stories about the deployment of the Eulex mission to KIM began, and again Boris Tadic says that EULEX can be established for him at KIM, along with some of his known conditions. As for us Serbian radicals, we are firmly in the view that this is impossible and that the National Assembly of the Sea, above all, and before the rebalancing, and before the Schengen laws you adopted yesterday, we need nothing if we lose KIM. That is why we have insisted and insist that the National Assembly discusses and decides on a resolution proposed by 108 MPs, but you do not insist on putting it on the agenda, or vote that this is not for an emergency procedure, but for a regular one day, and then, in the meantime, a statement by one of the leaders in the ruling coalition, announcing that Serbia will be in the EU without KIM. It is very dangerous, it is, I fear, what Boris Tadic thinks and the ruling majority. I'm done. I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5346	Thank you. The state and national policies of the Government and the President of the Republic are both public and all of us known, but in the form of your question will be forwarded. Srboljub Zivanovic, Advertises the Rules of Procedure, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5347	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. I would continue to tell my party colleagues about KiM, because KiM has always been and served the regime's authority, whether it's about Serbs or non-Albanian citizens, to improve their election results. The easiest way to deceive them was by promising that the future government or government would help their life on KIM, which would enable them to cope better with their difficulties now. You saw that after the election, many ministers came to visit KIM, promised them towers and cities, promised them what was possible and impossible, because they allegedly wanted to show how patriotic they thought of the citizens of KIM, or Serbs. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that KIM is the largest Serb site, that Kosovo's bohemian flower is next to the monuments of heroes who died in 1389 defending not only Serbia, but also Europe from the Turkish hordes and that Serbia was the last misery, that Serbia was thorns for that flower Europe. What is it today and what does this flower Europe offer Serbia? It offers in the 20th century to destroy it, to enslave it, to leave Serbia. Many have tried to pass the flower elsewhere, to flourish, but it could not because it had dried very quickly, it speaks only of the importance of Serbian blood and Serbian heroism at that time, which laid down their lives for freedom. We see, those who have betrayed the last plight of Serbia, the last plight is the SRS, they sit here today, you see, here in this frontal forehead, and I don't know how they can sit like traitors. They're probably like the security of those who took the mandates of the SRS. He has propagated his heroism, but I ask him, where is he in front of him, along with Solana, Ollie Rehn, and with many traitors, the biggest traitors who have tried to destroy Serbia and the Serb people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5348	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and then the Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5349	Dear fellow Members of the People, I am reporting on the basis of article 100, and I am calling for an article. 225 and 226. I ask, for who knows which time, the question of when the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija will come to the agenda in this House. Namely, to remind you that you had a proposal from 108 MPs, and for such a proposal, you managed to create a majority and reject the proposal so that it would not be on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Then you had a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, without any reason, after the formation of the quasi-political group, you removed Serbia from the agenda. Why are you doing this, Serbian citizens are wondering, especially Serbian citizens living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. We have formed the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija, which is tasked with uniting all municipalities formed after the May 11th elections. We want to, and since we have about the same problems in all parts of the territory, that we together do something so that we can live better, to ensure that our children are properly educated, that our citizens are treated, that we have our own institutions, from local self-government, through local justice and local police, and that we live as the whole normal world. We hear many stories about the position and policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, immediately after that withdrawal from the resolution procedure, because it would give and define the position and this assembly would determine how the Prime Minister and Ministers should behave, as well as the President of the Republic, towards Kosovo and Metohija. We've sent a memo, we've asked him to see us, we've sent us twice, but he can't accept us. I would like to point out the positive example of Russian Ambassador Koruzin, who, at our request, said, no, you will not come to me to see you, but I will come to you to get acquainted with your problems. This way I thank the Russian ambassador once again for finding the time to come and visit Strpce, Gracanica and Kosovo Mitrovica and to get acquainted with the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Since we cannot ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to see us, we have decided to organise a petition. The petition began to gather yesterday across Kosovo and Metohija. So, in all municipalities, in all Serb communities, the Serb people gather and collect petitions. Hopefully we'll get over 50 as soon as possible and maybe 100,000 signatures. I hope then that these 100,000 signatures will be enough to have mercy on the president of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to receive a delegation that is legitimate, legal, to which people have given confidence in Kosovo and Metohija, and to come together to some position on what to do and how to do to prevent this illegal mission of Eulexa in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5350	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Verica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure as well, and then Dušanka Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I haven't finished the topic I was just beginning to talk about on the basis of article 100 and on Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It refers to the official policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you said that the government policy and the president are transparent and available to the public. I am talking about something that is being played by Serbian citizens as test balloons, and I have already said that these days is the current statement by one of the party leaders making the government and the parliamentary majority in Serbia. The man said Serbia will be in the EU without Kosovo and Metohija. The one who said that is a minor political figure. I certainly wouldn't comment on his statement to refer to anything else. But since he refers to Kosovo and Metohija and I fear it is not only his opinion, but he is a spokesman for Boris Tadic and the government of the Republic of Serbia, for that reason I want to talk about it. For this reason, I would like to ask whether and why neither the president of the state nor the Prime Minister nor the Government has officially called. Yesterday, the government held a session, appointed directors of public enterprises, those whose salaries were five, six, 12, as counterpart Markovic said earlier, thousands of euros. So they have time to deal with it, and that's why we didn't comment yesterday. We expected the government of the Republic of Serbia to be fenced from such a statement. Because, you know, that's not what someone in the opposition said. That's what someone who exercises power, who participates in power. Then it cannot be interpreted as someone's personal opinion, especially if the official authorities of the Serbian state do not respond. So, the question about what I want to ask, or what I'm looking for, and you can do it very quickly, as early as today, Madam President of the National Assembly, to let us know whether the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia share the opinion of this who said that Serbia without Kosovo will be in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5352	Your question will be forwarded, but I can answer you reliably that the government and president of the Republic say that Serbia will be unique in the European Union, they say in every place, and that Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: You believe them? Yes, I trust both the Government and the President of the Republic, I believe. The word is Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 225 and 226. I use the parliamentary right to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mrs Dragutinovic, who is not currently in the hall, I hope her associates will pass on the issue she will bring to the government, as I have an obligation to the citizens I represent in the Assembly, which is the citizens of the Bora District or the whole of Timočka Krajina in front of the SRS, who have no real information through newspapers or through the media about something that disturbs them or discourages them. What does official Serbia do to save an extraordinary man, our countryman, a Serb, Mr Andrija Mandic, who has been on hunger strike for the 11th day, from the anti-Serbian Montenegrin-Shirt regime in Montenegro? Is there any way that this inhuman, predatory, insatiable, and Serbia's ungrateful authority would somehow agree to or perhaps even blackmailing Mr. Mandic would save his life, saving his face and the little freedom his countrymen have. If there is nothing the Government can do, as we have witnessed in many similar situations, for example when striked by reservers, let us only remember those tormented strikers over whom they have skipped out for days to enter their paved cabinets, could a human minister, say, health minister or Mrs Dragutinovic, who is not presently here, agreeing to the brave, persistent and politically unwavering European Tadic's life to influence his brothers by democracy, environmentality and origin, in order to save Mr Mandic's life. Instead of making statements on Montenegrin television and calming the local public that Serbia's official will in no way punish the Cypriot Montenegrin drug lordship and theirs, as he said without any shame, a legitimate decision. I'm originally a Shumadinka, a Garashanka, but all the wounds of my generation hurt me, so I wonder how those born in Montenegro, and in our government, thank God there are plenty of them, and more than ever, my Garashans, the Timicians or the Shumadinians, turn their heads from these monstrous events. So, I expect urgent action from the Serbian government and detailed publicity. We've been hearing here for days about how G 17 plus is trying to prevent the realisation of the gas agreement through Mr Dinkic's sticky fingers and his encrypted perpetrators, which all of Serbia has long known, and how the whole government and the public are engaged to investigate something just because it's wanted by Mr Canak, especially if he hits the floor with a stick. So I ask Mrs Dragutinovic to take this issue seriously and ask the other members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5354	Mr. Milorad Buha, then Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to open up a story about increasing the price of natural gas and opening up all the elements that are important for determining and determining the price of natural gas. This is where we have to start to calculate the natural gas price. I'm going to get some data here, especially financial data, that adequately determines the price of natural gas. According to balances for the financial year 2007, the public company "Srbigas" has earned a profit of 861 million dinars, which represents close to 11m euros. In addition, if we mention that there are dozens, 37 or 38 distributors of local character who have also made a huge profit, our estimate is that the profit of all is, we do not have a suprare review, but we estimate that around 35m euros is the profit of these companies, together with this profit, we have exactly how much gas consumption will be for 2008 and 2008/2009, respectively. A year. When we compare that total consumption data, which is somewhere at 40 million, and this profit, then we see that we can simply cover a lot of things from this profit. We can also cover this increase. So there's no need to raise prices. There's no need. Why is there no need? It is about the distribution of gas treated in our legal system of action of particular interest. Companies dealing with this business are companies that have the approval of whether the republican governments or local self-government, but if it is enterprises that are carrying out a particular social interest, they have turned into monopolies in our system, they determine all the elements, and ultimately they are the ones who propose a real price for an increase. If we said that margins are too high, if we realized that profits in businesses that deal with these activities are too high, two to three times and five times larger than in other parts of the economy and the economy, then we come to the conclusion -- where our reserves are. There's our reserve. We warn the government, we warn all state authorities, don't do that. This gas price has neither an economic, economic, nor a financial foothold at the total calculation price of natural gas. Look again. What you've done, you've got to put it out of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5356	Thank you. I think that through the active participation and engagement of MPs, the committee responsible and the Assembly in general, the Assembly has sent a very strong message to both the competent authorities and the public about the price of gas. I think today would be very useful to work on budget rebalancing. Our need for our government representatives to be here is now satisfied with Mrs. Finance's presence today. I really think we should use that opportunity today to work on the agenda points. Mr. Dragan Stevanovic reported, a breach of the Rules of Procedure also.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appear in the context of those members that I have just called in, which through the Rules of Procedure regulate the work of the Assembly committees. We received a report from the Finance Committee's session a few minutes ago, and if you read it, you can't tell through any of his sentences that you recognize or see that something was happening to him that was objectively not in the spirit of parliamentaryism and the principles of democracy. Apparently, everything's okay. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you said after Mr. Krasic's presentation that you understood the dissatisfaction of the Serbian Radical Party and that you were unable to help us. You mentioned and referred us to certain addresses or institutions. We appreciate very much that you understand us, but we have absolutely nothing of it. I repeat to you this second time today, and who knows which time in the last few days, the problem encountered in this congregation and which objectively is the expression of the political will of the congregation's majority. That's what I'm going to do to you on one case and illustrate it. At one of the meetings of the Administrative Committee, it is requested that the Management Board be chaired by the Vice-President or Vice-President. The expression of the will of the congregation’s majority was not accepted. Therefore, the problem is not only in the Serbian Radical Party, and it is not true that you cannot solve it. So, you have to show, both you and your congregation majority, the political will to really want to resolve it, that the usurped rights to the Serbian radical party come back. We are not looking for anything that you cannot and should not return, nothing that is not in line with the basic principles of democracy and the fundamental principles of parliamentaryism. So I urge you once again to use your political authority, to take advantage of all the levers of the system and the authorities, that the rights that have been denied to the Serbian Radical Party, which is the right to have 78 mandates and everything that arises from that, be returned.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5358	I've informed the Parliament and the public that today's committee review will be the deputy chairman of the Committee, Mrs. Ljiljak. I understand, and I have information that everyone has received their word, and those who are not members of the board that have received the word in the end. I was wondering what was going on on the board. Faith of Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5359	Obviously, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you are disinformed when it comes to the rally that has been forged as the Finance Committee, but I am not going to talk about it, but I am continuing what is the real problem of the state of Serbia and of all citizens in Serbia, which is the problem of Kosovo and Metohija. You said earlier that you trusted the President of the Republic and you trusted the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that's your right, but we Serbian radicals don't trust Tadic or his government, and of course we have reason to say it. Not only because we are the opposition political party, but because many times it has proved that they have no sincere intentions when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. I don't know if you understood the question I asked, that is, the information I wanted to learn, which is what is the official position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what is the official position of the president of Serbia in relation to the statement of one of the ruling majority coalition partners who announced that Serbia would join the European Union without Kosovo and Metohija. This is not harmless at all, and this is not a non-serious question, but the opposite, so we continue to insist. We have no official opinion, nor the position of our authorities, let's say, nor what will happen after this post-washing conscience about the truth about Račka, which means the truth about the start of NATO's aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia. We also read about it only in the daily press and none of the official authorities have anything to say about it. This is what is worrying, and we must and we want to warn each day, to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the State, that they are obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that they must do their job seriously and responsibly, to have a serious opposition in the SRS and that we will not allow them, in a folk way, to open their eyes until they answer all these questions. I'll keep going, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5360	The question will be forwarded to the right addresses. National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5361	Dearly beloved, I am obliged to inform the public, to point out to him a great danger, a great fraud prepared by the Serbian government these days, and of course I will use the presence of the finance minister. In fact, if I am not mistaken, the government assured citizens' roles in banks up to 50,000 euros the day before. This is an increase of about 17%, as the guaranteed stake before it was around 3,000 euros. So I'm asking you, where does this kind of money come from to a poor country, where there's no investment, there's only good wishes, in a country where we don't have dinars for basic social affairs, there's a variety of corridors, roads, and all of this seems to be for some campaign that's not unfortunately pre-election yet? So we're 17 times stronger than the U.S., all of which are, that's what the government looks like, and it's started. The United States has caused this financial fiasco, but in its economic thinking they have not gone further than increasing the guaranteed role of seven or eight times, if I am not mistaken. So we went from 3,000 to, I say, an abnormal 50,000 euros. So, in my court, it's a simple bluff, a real card game for the government to save itself from what the Americans have wrapped up so nicely, and what we've been reported as something marginal, something that won't touch us. However, the tsunami and what it looks like to hit Serbia's shores. This is all happening in a country that has no economic policy, unfortunately, in a country where economic policy consists of an artificial course of dinars, which is also a serious threat to citizens, especially those who have taken loans. Of course, three minutes limit me to explain it a little more, but I think most of it's clear. So if someone has a salary of 100,000 dinars, on this current rate, they pay back a loan of, say, 30,000 dinars, and if a dinar ever goes to the right market, that loan will be much bigger. Isn't that right, ma'am? I think you're looking at me with understanding. I'm hoping for your explanation, but since my three minutes just expire, I'm not gonna take any more time, so I'll get back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5362	National MP Momir Markovic, then Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I look at this book called budget rebalancing and when it stops talking after the Rules of Procedure, when we move on to this book, you'll see why there are huge additions. The budget hole is 45,784,730,463 dinars. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the price of gas is 60% higher, therefore the price of bread, and the price of oil, and the price of all products and broad consumption will soon reach the price of gas. Anyway, let me finish that part, because when I talked about the salary of the director of Serbiaagas and the salary of the chairman of the Jugoros Management Board, so when it comes together because it's one person, it turns out to be 12,000. In order not to remain unspeakable, Serbian employees' salaries range from 30,000 to 50,000 dinars. These are the people who are on duty all night, who maintain the pipeline system, who are ready every moment to come out to end the haemorrhaging, sometimes risky, very risky and their own life, because I remind you, when some big explosions on the master's pipeline were happening, then the lives of those who came to work were threatened. Therefore, the salaries of employees are not large. The salaries of those we choose here, which are chosen by the ones we choose here, are huge. To remind the director of the flight control board's salary, he is now the chairman of the board of directors, who, according to the qualification of the secretary, former secretary, former president, or head of the cabinet of former Prime Minister Biljana Stankov. Let me remind you that the salaries of many directors are over a million dinars, or over 10-12 000 euros. Therefore, this is no exception. You cut the salaries of those you have chosen and brought to them with state money what they once did or what they will do and you will come to the level that you do not have these 45 billion, which you will once again on the back of the citizens, you will pull out of an empty pocket, black under the fingernails you will take people to cover this. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I ask a parliamentary question, I demand that I be answered, what are the salaries with all the receipts – not only the salaries, because there is a dance, the salary is 500,000-600,000 and twice as much in various ways, then it comes out to millions and several hundred thousand – what are the salaries of all the directors of all the public enterprises in Serbia, the public enterprises that are controlled and the business of which the old government of Serbia is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5364	In fact, you have no right to ask at this session parliamentary questions. It's a special session. I understood that as your finding and interest. It'll be forwarded and you'll get an answer, but you didn't actually stick to the agenda, or harm to the Rules of Procedure that you advertised. Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5365	Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 225. And I think we should move on to the agenda, but obviously something needs to be determined first and settled some previous questions. So I ask the government why she disobeyed the unanimous conclusion of the Industry Committee that he recommended, ordered that the price of gas not be raised, because we see from yesterday's session of the government that the price remained increased by 60%, only paid in two wars. It was simply not a conclusion, not only of the congregation's majority, but almost a consensus has been reached in this assembly and among the members of the Committee, that the government has room not to raise 60% of the price of gas for households, as households spend only 12% of the total gas in Serbia. That 60% higher on those 12 is about 40m euros. The government's generosity, so the citizens of the 40m euros will pay for the increase from two parts, is no consolation for the citizens they are due to pay. We from the LDP, who opened and launched this topic, offer a solution. Then, unlike some others who, for demagogue reasons, step on this subject, because it is simply clear that this increase is scandalous and inappropriate, we have suggested: abolish the mediator, who makes 35 million dollars on the commission and that is exactly how much the household needs to pay more. It's a finished story. The industry will have to pay for what has to be paid. It's clear there's a reason for some price hike, it's also clear that the rate of dollars has changed, etc., but the essence is in the middleman. With this in mind, under Article 225, I ask which of our citizens participates in the management of this firm, Jugorosgas, in that part run by the owner of Fenerbahce, Ali Shen, and who recommended our citizens to this Mr Shen, and what is the connection between these citizens and the parties introduced by the mediator, and I remind you that it was during the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic. I am looking for answers to these questions, because if there are our citizens in this commission, I think the authorities will deal with how Serbia lost 25% and how it fell to only a quarter of its ownership, but this is now a second question: who put our citizens into that company and what is their relationship with individual parties, structures, organisations, sports companies?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5366	MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5367	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I brought one newspaper, but the same situation is that I brought all the newspapers today. I need to point out to you a member of our 27th Rules of Procedure who, no matter what I politely address you and ask you for an understanding that you understand what this is all about, and you are deafening yourself by calling on the speaker in charge to do your job. I think the purpose of my announcement is not to invite them through the pay phone but to take sharp action, and you are authorized to do so because you are under certain conditions and the President of the Republic of Serbia. What's this about? For days, I have kept you informed that the National Assembly is not a place where crime is encouraged but where crime is trampled. So those criminals are supposed to get arrested, to duck, to be sent to an appropriate place. You're all somehow finding some justification. Now let me tell you what's been published in the paper today. "Bajatovic will pay 12,000 euros. Fifteen days in the National Assembly, opposition MPs criticise the government, criticise the phenomenon of increasing the price of gas heating. Meetings are organised, discussions on the subject are avoided in all possible ways, and then the Government of Mirko Pacera informs us nicely yesterday that one MP has become the director and that the place is pulling two salaries, a salary plus a fee, that when added is 12,000 euros. An ordinary man can conclude that the reason for such an increase in the price of gas is just to secure the salary of this man. But that's not the point. If you look at the article below, it says this: "Serbia Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic on economic development. Salaries will rise 2%, pensions are discussed." Let's go to the other side, and read the text, "The Parliament adopted the budget rebalance." This morning, the paper says the text - Assembly adopted budget rebalancing. We haven't even started the budget rebalancing debate yet. Now, when crime is encouraged here, immorality and all the worst that can exist, then it's no surprise that outside of this room, outside this building, crime is booming. Of course, it flourishes in the government of the Republic of Serbia, in the presidency building, where Boris Tadic, who strongly supports it. I will no longer report to the Rules of Procedure because I think the public has figured out what kind of manipulation it is: manipulation with the National Assembly and manipulation in the media conducted by Djilas, Shafer and Miki Rakic, and one Italian stud.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5368	Mr Krasic, as it is not true that the agenda has ended on budget rebalancing, so it is not simply possible or physically that Mr Bajatovic, who has not yet begun to work, has the salary spoken of. So what someone does professionally and professionally, it's a subject, but not for today's session. Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President of Parliament, I request an explanation from the Ministry of Agriculture. The autumn harvest of wheat and other pruning grains began. I ask the government, which has promised, whether it will meet its obligations and whether it will do something about regressing fuel and artificial fertilisers, and thus help farmers whose products today are extremely low on the market. In fact, you have a situation like this, you need a farmer to produce four kilograms of corn, and the value of four kilograms of corn is one egg. Does the government think about farmers? For years we have been able to monitor the work of the Government, especially the Ministry of Agriculture, and to make sure that the Ministry of Agriculture does nothing to improve conditions, improve or help repromaterials to obtain at lower prices, that the fertilizer at some normal prices is sold to farmers, that the work of an artificial fertiliser manufacturer is controlled, that imports of artificial fertilisers are controlled and that prices are controlled, and that artificial manure is sold to farmers, and that no one buys out any of their agricultural products. Ladies and gentlemen, the other day I asked a question concerning the renting of agricultural land by the Ministry of Agriculture on the territory of the Katastrian municipality of Omolivica, in the composition of the town of Pancheva. Nikolaj Dimitrov, who represents the company "PD Omorica" A.D., rented 731 hectares of agricultural land. I'm asking a question, and I'm actually asking for an explanation and a notice, because citizens are asking me, is it true that the contract and contract provisions relating to the lease of these 731 hectares of agricultural land are not respected? Second, what's the D.A. doing? The D.A. doesn't do his job, and the huge areas of agricultural land have been taken by greeners and profiteers, so I ask the question: will the public defender do something and take those measures to which the law obliges him to control whether this contract has been executed? I'm asking the Ministry of Agriculture for a notice - did this tenant honor the obligations he made under the contract or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5370	Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of article 100 and on Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I want to keep talking about what we think is the most important problem right now in Serbia, which is KIM. Although you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, said you had confidence in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, I must repeat that we Serbian radicals do not trust them, but I want to tell you that when we had some negotiations, talks with Minister Bogdanovic, about the proposal for a resolution on KIM, we, of course, made our position and worried that Mr. Bogdanovic would not be able to work in the interest of the Serbian people because of the fact that he was a minister in a so-called minister. The Shiptar government. When we spoke to the minister about the motion for a resolution of 108 MPs, then it came from a fellow member, again from the ruling majority, I deliberately did not mention the names because I do not want to challenge the replicas, one of my colleagues said then, and these talks were before that non-binding General Assembly of the UN, that it is best that we do not bring any resolution to the National Assembly until we see what happens in the General Assembly. We then expressed the opposite position and claimed that this is why and because of this decision we should have once again a clear position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on KIM. Why am I bringing this up now? Because here it turns out that we were right and that it was really necessary. What do we have now? Again, without a reaction from the government of the Republic of Serbia, without a reaction from the president of Serbia, we are familiar with the media that the International Court in The Hague is calling on illegal Kosovo representatives, Cypriot representatives, to deliver some documentation, to answer some questions, and that is exactly what we were afraid of. You know, in this way, this international court has already indirectly recognised the existence and independence of KIM and then it really raises the question of what intentions we've been going with that proposal at all, but I'm going to do it below since it's been three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5372	Miss Natasa Jovanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5373	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Madam Minister, you are truly brought about by such will of the DS in this situation, but as they humiliate you with an illegal representation of someone at a session of the Finance Committee, I will take the opportunity to respect your legitimacy and, above all, your expertise, although I do not agree at all with the economic policy that you represent and the Government of Prime Minister Cvetkovic, to ask you some specific questions, i.e. to take the opportunity to inform myself on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Otherwise, this Article 225, you will hear during the day and you have heard that we are calling multiple times, says that we must be informed of all issues, that is, from the work of the MPs, and that certain publications are being delivered to us. We have not received, and are not members of the Health Committee, research conducted in Serbia, from the Institute for Health Protection, from 2000 to 2006, and from 2006 to 2007. I'd like to ask you this route for a specific notice, perhaps you've managed to find out as finance minister, and if you're not required to know urgently what happened. The issue was also raised by Dr. Jagoda Jorga, who is from the DS, at one of the meetings of the Health and Family Committee. Mrs Dragutinovic, the World Bank has granted funds to the Republic of Serbia for a national health account, which is necessary to combat healthcare corruption and we have indeed been representing it for many years. Dr. Paja Momcilov, president of the Health Committee, insists on these issues, but we have a staunch Minister Milosavljevic, who does not want to listen to the MPs, who enters the duels, who often performs so unpleasantly that the committee sessions leave him and those who support him from your coalition authority. Money has been approved for this project, and why is that important? Because until Serbia has a national health account, we will have chaos and corruption in our health system. I did not receive a publication under Article 225, nor was it possible to inform myself of it through congregation services, but I did so through the Internet and through publications that I came to as a National MP. As many as 46% of Serbian citizens have suffered from hypertension and the health ministry has done nothing in the strategy to combat this non-infectious disease, but is spreading as contagious, to help Serbian citizens. I will finish, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it would take me a lot of time, because I started a very important topic for the citizens of Serbia. Madam Minister, since you're the finance minister, all research shows that not only are there indications, but it's research that people have come to, above all, the Institute of Health Protection, that 30% of the total money in human healing flows relative to state control is out of progress. They have signed, some owners of private offices and clinics, with the Republic Health Insurance Contracts Fund, but he clicked thousands of those who didn't? It's the basis for corruption. Since Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic is a respected professor, a regular professor of the Kragujeva Medical Faculty, she knows very well that drugs and anti-corruption pills do not exist. She will probably need many who are illegal MPs, and citizens, to prescribe some other therapy, I see it by their expressions and by how she observes them, but since there is no possibility... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... To invent pills, pills for corruption, the state must take that job into its own hands, and the corruption in health care and these illegal flows of money are great. Thank you. I'm sorry I timed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5374	Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, MP, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 100 and Article 100. 225 and 226. Namely, I request an explanation from Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who, ten minutes after the UN Assembly's decision on a legitimate request from the Serbian state to review the illegal declaration of independence of KIM, spoke with UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon. Our media have not transmitted any information regarding this conversation, but we have learned from the Ship's press that this conversation has been negotiated and that some alleged six points have been negotiated, in order for the Eulex mission to be legalized in KIM space. I ask the question -- on whose behalf, certainly not on behalf of the Kosovo Serbs and Serbs from Serbia who voted for the SRS, can't Vuk Jeremic negotiate and cannot implement politics, and again I remind him that he is bound by the latest resolution in December 2007, which says that the Eulex mission is undesirable in Serbia's territory, which is a significant area of KIM. On the other hand, it is increasingly clear to the Serbian people with KIM that a large edition is being prepared from Belgrade to Serbs in KIM, so I want to take advantage of the pay phone and this opportunity to appeal to the Russian Federation, China, India and all other countries that are against the independence of KIM to take the view that no mission of EULEX has passed in the UN. Today, we have a press release saying that this Eulex mission will be put on the agenda of the UN, and that our government and our president are asking the Russian Federation to soften its position and be gentler than that mission. As an SRS MP, in front of the Serb people with KIM, I am sending an appeal to the Russian Federation not to soften the position, because there is no softening of the attitude. This is about the classic betrayal, the surrender of 130,000 Serbs to the mercy and mercy of the Shiptar institutions and an unobstructed mission, which is illegal and which in one way extremely savagely carries out its mission at KIM. I therefore appeal to the Russian Federation, particularly President Dimitri Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, to continue to have a clear view that international law cannot be trampled and that all decisions in the UN must be respected in order to protect KIM... (President: Mr Kragovic, speak 25 seconds longer, you want to bring the end, please. )......................................................................................................... and the Serbian people at KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5376	National MP Dragan Zivkov, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. The fact that I am not going to talk about the KIM issue, I do not dispute that the most important issue for our country is the territory of KIM, my colleagues have already explained, but I would like to address the Assembly as a member of the Committee on Industry, as at the last session of the Committee there was a minister who heard all the MPs on the Committee and members of the Committee. After yesterday's session, the minister answered all the questions we asked him and gave the task before the Industry Committee, he did not remain deaf to these issues. I have just reported to inform the citizens and this parliament that an increase in gas of 60% will certainly strike a major blow to the citizens' budget in Serbia, especially those who use gas. Of course it will also hit the citizens' budget that don't use gas, because many factories, plants, production, especially in Vojvodina, use energy as a gas, as energy for production. Since I've asked a few questions to the Minister, I think it's likely that no one's paying attention to these questions, I think that the issues I asked on the Committee on Industry are very important: how much and what burden does the gas cubicity charge that the price has to go 60% higher? Is the basic burden of employment? What is the percentage of employment in a public enterprise, since we know that certain political structures, especially in public enterprises, political structures that exercise power, meet their appetites and employ many people in these public enterprises that may not be necessary? One of these questions was -- how much does the employment of the public company cubic gas burden? Is the coin, our dinar, no longer worth as much as it is presented in public and as much as the National Bank holds it artificially, is the price of gas exactly why our dinar is no longer worth so much to foreign currency? These days, it's been heard the most about the margins, the percentage of the construction of gas-traded companies. The basic and elemental question was - who issues a license for gas trading companies and how many of these companies in the state do they have? (President: Time. Let me finish. How many percent of the gas cubicity is charged on the basis of intermediaries and how many such intermediaries in the country are there? I'd like you to sign me up again, since I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5378	Mr. Milorad Buha, then Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will show you that the state authorities are not working, especially those bodies that are important and vital to the functioning of the overall social, economic and political system of the Republic of Serbia. We're talking about a drastic increase in natural gas prices and we tried to see who these entities in society had to react in a far more responsible way than they did in the event of this increase. We have to mention the Energy Agency, which was founded under the Energy Act. I'm going to read a few provisions here, and you're going to see one of the reasons why there's been an increase in natural gas prices. Article 13 The Energy Act is intended to form the agency as a single legal entity and functionally, it says, independent of any state body, energy entities and users of their products and services, as well as of all other legal and natural persons. In Article 10, it says, with regard to jurisdiction, it monitors the application of regulations and rules for the operation of energy subjects to provide regular supply of energy and services to customers, their protection and their equal position, as well as other transactions identified by this law. Article 15 provides that the Agency shall carry out tasks for the adoption of a tariff system for the calculation of electricity and natural gas, harmonising the methodology for the determination of tariff elements for the calculation of electricity and natural gas prices, etc. What is important is that in terms of competence in the work of this agency we have the managing authority, which is the advice of the agency elected by the Assembly. There are five members in total. The agency's board of directors is obliged to submit a report on the work to the National Assembly, it says, at least once a year, and this report contains a report on financial operations and a report on the financial plan for next year. The moment the Assembly chose counsel, the council had to be in office, the council was not in office. The agency isn't in office. If the agency had taken all the activities and given full information to the Ministry in time, etc., there would have been no such increase in prices. Time's up, I'll get back to you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5380	Mr. Marash, and then the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5381	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, I wanted to speak in line with the agenda, I wanted to ask Mrs. Minister how this is possible for budget rebalances to increase funds for the JP Ski resorts of Serbia. But we'll talk about it later. My predecessor, Mr. Buha, encouraged me to say something else after all. The Industry Committee came to conclusions the other day. We made a commitment to the government to try to solve the acute problem currently in society through these conclusions, which means collecting 60% of gas. However, other than paying for wars, or slowly killing, nothing other citizens received when it comes to gas. Mr. Buha just tried to explain why there was a gas collection. The gas collection took place because then Finance Minister Dinkic replaced his then G17 party president. That's when he replaced the man who led until then, Serbiagas. He set up his man Milos Milankovic. His man, Milos Milankovic, introduced a mediator in 2007. So, the essence of the whole story and the question of all the questions, why was the middleman introduced then. That story that the Russians were looking for it to turn our gas, etc., that's a story for unserious people. It is a story of an attempt to launder a person who has been repeatedly in this country and from this assembly speaker has been called that a person who has greatly damaged the budget and has greatly damaged Serbian citizens. So we directly believe that the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic is responsible for the gas collection, regardless of what this government has now raised prices by 60% and does nothing to reduce those prices. At the time, Finance Minister, current Minister of Economic Development, your colleague from the government, Mladjan Dinkic, is directly responsible for introducing a mediator, directly responsible for paying Serbia's state, here's how much we heard from Minister Skundric, 40m euros a year in fees to a firm, which became the mediator of the moment it moved into majority Russian ownership. More specifically, the 25% we keep talking about still cannot claim to be the pure property of Gazprom, since there are various names, from Mr Ali Shen, Mr Zečević, etc. It would be interesting to find out who is behind this, that is, why Mladjan Dinkic introduced a mediator through Milankovic and damaged this country, its budget and its citizens at least annually worth 40m euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5382	Mrs Radeta, then Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5383	Article 100, relating to Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Why it was necessary for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to consider and adopt a resolution on the KIM proposed by 108 MPs to the National Assembly. We were very late in the afternoon, but in some ways we discussed the two proposals and had a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the SRS MPs could not accept, because it was very incorrect there, or at all, that was left out of the position of the National Assembly on the Eulex mission, and we think that's exactly how we have to preserve KIM within Resolution 1244 and in the framework of all the previous resolutions and declarations brought by the National Assembly, as you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, say in line with the official policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS's opinion from the beginning was, and I am now saying before you applied to the UN General Assembly, it is essential that individually that the court in The Hague be sued by those states that have recognised the illegal state of Kosovo in the territory of the Serbian state. Now it's showing, it would be much more efficient and more concrete, because what we have now is something that leads to doubt, which is why we, as a state, have been going towards the General Assembly in general and euphoric in the wake of the General Assembly's decision to inform us that a huge result has been achieved. If after this we have a fact that we are informing ourselves from the media, that the international court in this procedure, which it has announced will be completed in a few months, is seeking the opinion of the false state of Kosovo, then it is indeed not what Serbia needs. I am convinced that this is not what you asked for when you asked for the General Assembly's opinion; either you incorrectly suggested that resolution or it was a huge deception for the citizens of Serbia and we want it to give us a statement from both the government and the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5384	National MP Milan Avramovic, then Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226. First, I will inform the public that there is still another people's, sworn by the country of paradise that all secrets are known and that slowly, as time goes away, we get answers to the questions raised by the position. To remind the citizens that the other day Mrs. Susana Grubjesic came out and attacked some parliamentary groups here that they are the cause and the biggest problem of gas collection prices and that the culprits from these parliamentary groups are still the culprits, and that nothing has changed in the meantime. So now I'm going to inform the citizens of Serbia, as Milos Milankovic, now director of the Power Network of Serbia, also caught in one criminal act, which is not at all a foreign phenomenon for G 17 Plus officials, at that time introduced intermediaries into this whole story, gave an excuse that he was only working on the instructions of the Management Board of Serbiaagas during that period and that normally, as time went by, the laufercics slowly appeared and the truth came to light. What's going on? A total of nine members, five members from the G 17 plus party, two members from the SPI party and two members from the DSS, participated in the Management Board of Serbia. Of these five members of G 17 plus parties, two of the ranks are also members of G 17 plus, which only says that five is larger than four and that G 17 wanted to throw out a mediator at that point, he had the possibility. What is also interesting is that one of the G 17 plus members of the staff, Nedeljkovic, opposed this introduction of mediators at that time. Let's take a look and ask where he ended up today. According to Mrs Dulic and Mladjan Dinkic's express warrant, Nedeljkovic is neither a member of G 17 plus nor is he able to return to work in Serbia because he was expelled within the deadline. What I'd still like to say, since I have a little time, but I'll get back to you, is that the backgrounds that are being called to their sources today, say LSV, Cankova's party, I don't even know how to say what they're called and I don't want to know, so we're going to ask who Boban Sokolovic is? Who's behind the Centres? What did Bedget Pacolli do on September 15th in Osijek at the Liberal Council in Croatia in 2008? Who did he agree to charge Russia with this gathering? Is Pacolli a bankroll? Is Pacolli known for it as an Austrian firm? Then we'll reveal further details. What's the role of Ali Shen, the Shiptara of Prizren? What's his role? How big is he, U.K.F.F.? Afterwards, the lauferci appear over time, to see why it washes, how and how money is laundered from the middleman, who participated in the middleman being even where he is... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. Here I am, sorry, just two seconds. How do these money wash and where do they go? They certainly didn't go to Fenerbahce, a football club, they certainly didn't go to the Serbian cash register. I'm sorry about the time-out. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again. I have to finish this whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5386	The word has been made by MP Vladan Jeremic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He gets a word based on Article 100(1). After him, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I will use my right to use the corresponding Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to join the discussions that previous speakers today have also held for the assembly speaker, and by the way, these ten previous days, have devoted themselves to a subject that is certainly the most intense and ensuing of the citizens of Serbia. Of course, it's about collecting gas by 60% or being exact 59.9%, how much it really is, although I don't think it really changes anything. It is certainly one of the most difficult blows to the already modest standard of living of the vast majority of Serbia's citizens and that it was carried out at the most awkward moment, means at the very beginning of the heating season. Despite opposition party MPs' attempts, as well as the official positions we held at the meetings of the Assembly Committee on Industry, the only thing that followed as a response from the government of the Republic of Serbia, is the decision to pay the bill in two wars, the first one of about 67% and the second one, possibly 33%, which is not so important. I think it's one, least said, incorrect decision, because it's not the point of how much war we're going to be able to pay, but how we're going to even be able to pay gas at this price. Speaking of gas, I was quite surprised when I was talking to my fellow citizens, the Mladenovs, who have learned that the current price of 24.51 dinar per cubic metre is otherwise higher by nearly five dinars than in most other municipalities of Serbia. Of course, some explanation or attempt to find an explanation may not be in the transport price or else, because Mladenovac is an integral part of Belgrade and there is about 50km away. So now, it seems to me, that over 3,300 households, as much as it is connected to gas in Mladenov, are rightly practical and twice as angry. All this is additionally devastating, if we remember the belief and conviction that gas will be the most economical energy, although in Mladenov, for example, the accession amounted to about 1200 US dollars or if it is known that in Mladenov, the lowest average of personal income in the Belgrade city, and that the number of unemployed people is significantly higher than the number of those who still have employee status. So I'm also taking this opportunity to join more than justifiably the revolt of the citizens of Mladnevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5388	Three minutes, please state which member is injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5389	I only had four words left to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5390	National MP, you are under obligation to indicate the injury of which member is involved. At the end of three minutes, I'm obliged to ask you which member was injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5391	I think you listened very carefully to me at the beginning, I said it was Article 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5392	People's MP, you didn't say which member. You can see that through a stenogram, I listen very carefully to every MP, and that is why in the third minute of the presentation, I ask the MP to, because of the stenogram, and there would be no doubt that you are violating and misusing the Rules of Procedure, indicate which member is injured. Thank you. The word is by MP Sreto Peric, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I am reporting on the basis of Article 100, and in relation to Article 27, paragraph 1, paragraph 3, which reads as follows: "The President of the National Assembly (including others) is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. "It implies, it does not apply to you, an active relationship between the president of the assembly. What does that mean? Several SRS MPs informed and warned on time that we could work on the agenda item, which reads "The Bill's proposal and amendments to the Budget Law", we need to hold a session of the Administrative Committee. The Management Board's session was not held, there were eight members present, but that doesn't mean anything. There may be 249 MPs present in this assembly if the Assembly is not chaired by the National Assembly or by one of the vice-presidents, and on the basis of the authority of the president, a session of the Assembly cannot be held, no matter how many MPs are present in the hall. Eight members of the Committee were present at the meeting of the Finance Committee. The deputy chairman of the committee was also present, so there were conditions for holding the session, but it was not held because he tried to chair someone who was not a member of the committee and someone who was not a MP. To make the situation worse, Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic, who is entitled and able to speak at the meeting of the Finance Committee, is not given a word from anyone who is not even a member of the Committee and certainly not a MP. It's about the art. 225 and 226, as things continue, that we will have on the agenda, that is, to discuss the said law, the law on amending and supplementing the Budget Law in the next few days, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken some measures to prevent the global economic crisis, and has recently been intensively promoting its programme for both citizens and businessmen of the Republic of Serbia, and a decision has been made to guarantee the savings roles of citizens not more than 3,000 dinars, but 50,000 euros. I'm interested, I don't enter names anyway, because it's within the business secret of banks, how many stakes are numbered, how many Serbian citizens save 50,000 euros in business banks in Serbia so I can adequately prepare for the agenda period ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5394	There's no damage to article 27. Taking care of the coordinated work of congregation bodies and the appointment of this session of the National Assembly, the National Assembly president scheduled a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The debate takes place in accordance with Art. 151 and 139. And your claims that a member of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia may be someone who is not a National MP or that he can be president are arbitrary and untrue. I ask you to refrain from making such claims at the speaker of the National Assembly because only the MPs of the National Assembly can work in the bodies of the National Assembly, and only so does the congregation work in the congregation bodies. From their status as MP, everyone has equal rights and responsibilities. Any telling of the truth about someone who is not a National MP presided over the committee is a serious collapse of the dignity of the National Assembly. The word is from MP Dragan Zivkov, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5395	Reporting under Articles 225 and 226. Excuse me, Chairman, do you remember where I left off the last time I spoke? Well, if you don't know, then I have to do it all over again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5396	National MP, only the chairman can interrupt the speaker, and your attempt to establish a dialogue with the chairman is a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the treatment of the speaker and of Article 104, and I ask you that if you are already given the floor to sum up your speech with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5397	I didn't mean anything by it. I just wanted you to remind me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5398	People's MP, the duty of an MP who has received the word is to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and what you are now doing behind the speaker of the National Assembly is to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You can't start a speech like that and you can't talk to MPs like that. Please sum up your speech with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5399	I request a notice under Article 226 to answer those questions that I asked in my previous speech on the Committee on Industry, the Minister who was present, and I would refer to the speech that I wanted to conclude in the previous presentation, so I had to return. Since gas collection is certainly 60%, which the government does not think to return to an old price, it will certainly make a major blow to the citizens' budget and will collect many products produced in the gas and energy industry. Especially a group of pensioners sitting here in this parliament, boasting that they have received a 10% raise, will certainly not be able with that pension raise to pay for gas, especially people who heat up on gas during the winter. What the government has decided to pay in two or three times the gas that has been spent does not mean any extenuating circumstances for the citizens, meaning only the burden of 60%, as it has been passed. Serbian Radical Party MPs have sought on the board and are asking in parliament to lower the price, to return the price to the old one, and in what way they will do so, you have already heard it here a thousand times, that the biggest problem is the margin, the installation of people dealing with trade and gas distribution. Since a license who knows how much gas is issued, if they could have the right to distribute gas, the question is how many such companies there are and how many times can they fit into the cubic gas and how long would that price of cubic gas get to everyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5400	I ask the service to direct the part of the stenogram in which the MP asks for information on distributors to the Ministry of Energy of the Serbian Government. The word has been issued by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1), followed by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5401	As regards Articles 100 and 226. In my previous presentation, respected citizens, I spoke directly to the present lady minister. Madam Minister, when I say that, I use the right Serbian language, it's grammatically correct, this minister of male origin. Imagine what it would be like if I told you, Madam Minister, then it would be the grammar of Mrs. Attending Komic and then you would get angry, they would say - so I am not Nusic's Zivka. So, the Serbian language is a very precise thing, there's no playing with it and we don't really need these European innovations. So I stopped at an artificial dinar course, which is actually the only instrument that this government has in curbing inflation, which at this point, if I'm not mistaken, is about 11%, but it has reached 16%. How much do you say? Okay, we can talk about it a little later. What is indicative of this whole story is that Governor Jelasic uses only anesthesia to this people telling him that nothing will happen, that these unfavourable movements in the world banks will not have any effect on us, and he dares not take the government into his mouth, to say that there has been excessive budget spending, which can even be called rampaging in certain cases, that there is no investment, that privatisation is a complete failure, etc. So Governor Jelasic, about himself, broke down these statements to the level of that plumber who was recently elected in Kursumlia as director of the Public Enterprise Vodavod and sewerage. Of course, the left hand side, which led to such a choice, brought such a man to the citizens of Kursumlia. So here is a single thesis that we heard from Minister Dinkic that the governor's seat is unpartial, that it is a man who is independent, etc. In this process, by his public appearances, he also proves that he is also a tool of government and that the people here have no one to trust, least of all, the People's Bank. So, in order not to get too angry at all of this and not get to something concrete, I'm still going to sublime all of this into just one point. I would like the Minister to answer: Where do we get money from, this country, this government, to guarantee 50,000 euros in the role of citizens who have played so many roles, although there are very few. I'm going to be fair, so I'm not going to make any other topics, and that doesn't even allow time, for example, it would be interesting for you to answer what's going on with the price of fuel in this country, because it's known that the barrel of oil on the world market recently fell to half that enormous price that was, I think, $144. That was half this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5402	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Proposer representative, Minister Diana Dragutinovic, announces he has obligations that will make him leave the session for a short while.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5403	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising the members of Rules of Procedure 225 and 226. Last time I checked in with the Rules of Procedure, I was out of time, so I couldn't finish. To remind Serbian citizens that the salaries of Serbian employees are not large, that they range from 30,000 to 50,000 dinars for some leading places, and that the salaries of the tops of the executives start from the CEO, the chairman of the board of directors and down are enormously large. There's one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, which has not been talked about so far, now I've got a text message from my former colleagues, so they reminded me that besides this, there are six people who signed the so-called "Serbigas." Management contracts. So, besides the salary they receive in a public enterprise, they've signed management contracts that allow them to take, not make, incredible sums of money. The manager's contract means that when you finish some business for a public enterprise, you get a percentage of the job done and that's going around up to 100,000 euros in one move. I demand that MPs, the People's Assembly be given the names of those people who signed management contracts and total receipts that they took on that basis last year and last year. To inform the citizens of Serbia that we were returned to our parliamentary mandates in Priboj and Užica this morning and that this job is slowly being brought to an end, that the district courts are doing their job and that, in this regard, I commend the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice, they are doing it correctly and in accordance with the law, except in Kragujevac and in one more or two cities, New Belgrade, and I think there is another city in question. That part of the job will be completed by the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court. There are ways to get those mandates back. I ask the National Assembly to do everything possible to ensure that the theft, which has been proven, is stopped and that the mandates return to the SRS, I mean the parliamentary mandates. To inform members and supporters of the SRS that Serbia now has a second story from this group of citizens sitting here in the back rows. You know, we did it to collect more votes, so we'll eventually. There is no possible, there is not the same between honorable and honest radicals and traitors who stole the SRS, financially above all, tried to destroy it. They're not gonna make it. They tried to steal these mandates, and it won't work either. Counter-legislatively and unauthorizedly, they signed credit agreements that the SRS were not required.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5404	You speak for four minutes, MP. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5405	Thank you for this one minute. I'll see if I can make up for it when I get back to you next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5406	The MP made it clear that compensation implies less than one minute of speech next time. Every time you call and tell me you're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you're entitled to three minutes. National MP Bojan Mladenovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly's service that part of the stenogram of the presentation of MP Momir Markovic, concerning the request for information on employees in "Srbigas" on the amounts of earnings, deliver to the MP and the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. I want information on what's going on with So Leader. In one of the previous sessions, I noted that the president of the municipality was elected in a completely illegal way, a violent way. He was elected outside the assembly hall, in an office of 38, where the opposition's committees were forbidden to vote, or the municipality's security did not allow the opposition's committees to enter the vote. In the same way, the deputy president of the municipality was elected. The answer to these questions hasn't been answered yet. I talked about this a lot more last time, and in the meantime, another scandalous session took place, where the board held a second session without a quorum, 28 of the 56 council members were present. According to them, the 29th committee was a certain Isidora Ignac from the LDP. They indicated that the mentioned SRS had become a member of the Municipal Council and that it was no longer a committee member and that it could not give a quorum. Despite that fact, the DS continues the violent session again and interprets the law as it suits them. After that, opposition parties file a lawsuit against the court. The court adopts the same thing. The decisions taken at the session are not valid. It is interesting that the old OIK has been resolved, and the new one chosen at the session does not exist because there was no quorum, as the court also confirmed the decision to elect a new OIK annulled. Now the Vozdovac municipality has no OIK, no quorum and no way out of this situation. The unnatural DS-SPS-LDP interest coalition had a total majority of 31 council members, now having 28 thanks to their mistakes because they resigned. They don't have a chance to change them because there's no OIK, they don't have the ability to secure the quorum, they can't hold a session. The ruling parties have made a mess out of which they have no way out and have no solution. My question is, how long will this state of the municipality be tolerated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5408	I ask the National Assembly to deliver the request for information to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The word is by MP Milan M. Nikolic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5409	Dear People's MPs, according to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. I'd like to take advantage of it, the finance minister isn't here, but there are representatives of the ministry, to ask the next question. It's a budget, but a budget charge in local self-government. Under the Law on Local Self-Government, municipalities have the right to collect income via municipal taxis, specifically the tax on the company's emphasis. It is in accordance with the law, however, the way of collecting in my municipality, the municipality of Arilla, is next. It's about traffic through an account, so there are certain economic operators in my country in Aryl, depending on how much traffic there is, moving the company at 100 to millions of marks a year, so there's a lot of pressure and questions to me as an MP whether it's in accordance with the law. The company's mostly paying by zone, whether it's pointed out in the city centre. In the center of town is the largest company, and away from the center are the smaller. I checked in Belgrade in Prince Michael's, the extras, the firm's level of the year is about 150 grand. Let's compare it to one firm in Ariel, in a village, and there's good traffic and he pays a tax on a company of 100 to a million dinars. This is also related to the Ministry of Local Self-Government, but also to the Ministry of Finance, to give me an answer, is that in accordance with the law and the positive regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5410	I ask the service to direct a stenogram of the MP's presentation to the competent ministries. The word is from MP Marko Milenkovic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After that, the People's Messenger, Milorad Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has become a state today with accumulated citizens' problems, and this trend has been maintained by the new government of Boris Tadic. Serbia has become a country in which its citizens are delivered to the Hague tribunal sacks, a country where various types of mafias, bankruptcy, construction, road, education, energy, pharmaceutical, football, forest and many others are being harassed, and these days we come up with data from members of the ruling majority and on the existence of the gas mafia. We are all concerned that gas has accumulated 60%, that there is a mediator that is installing 35m euros. We were concerned by the purchase of a telephone subscription three times, an impulse of 100%, a variety of purchases of the prices of goods of broad consumption, meat, milk and other products, and the fact that the price of goods of broad consumption produced in Serbia is cheaper in countries in the environment than in Serbia. Of course, if we pull a parallel with us close to Greece, in which due to the suspicious privatisation of aerotransports, reform of the pension system and the collection of some life-forms, there has been a general strike, and this as a sign of warning to authorities there not to play with citizens, but to provide them with a decent life, we come to the conclusion that this is how it should work in an organised state of the type of Greece. And not as it happens in Serbia, which is what the DS introduced us into, where trade unions practically don't exist, because citizens mostly work in the state administration. I'm going to ask a question, or I'm asking for a notice and an explanation from the Prime Minister, whether there's a possibility of overcoming this rally, by the government finding some other alternative in terms of the rest of the price or a much smaller collection than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5412	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5413	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting to member 225 and 226, which means I have three minutes to speak, is that so, Madam Chairman? We have been witnessing for several days that in this house we are discussing an enormous collection of gas, one energy used by households, since this source of gas is the most in Vojvodina, unfortunately there is the most of them who use it. I don't know, in addition to this calculation of yours, how these households will be able to provide one social security family, their children, how to continue their education beyond this price of gas. But it's not just about households when it comes to the price of gas, it's about agriculture again. Namely, those who have decided, those 6.5 million tons of corn that have been removed from the field, the good part has gone to the droughts, you know how they behave when they get what the new price of gas is going to be. It's known that now that in the fall, when you knock it down about 32-14% of moisture, 14% of it's that ex-JUS, if you take 10,000 kilograms of corn into silos or droughts, which uses energy gas, you're 10,000 pounds with 22% of moisture, you have a new amount that's your property - 7,909 kilograms. Which means the owner of the dryer or the warehouse took it from you because of the enormous price of the gas of 2,100 kilograms for drying. This is another blow against farmers, farmers, couples, individual agricultural producers, and another indication that the government, the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water industry are not taking care of it, another blow that the farmer does not know what to do with this huge surplus in the spring because the stock reserves are not interested in the surplus in this agricultural product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5414	People's MP, you have called on the members of 225 and 226 and in your presentation you have not asked anyone for any information or information. I ask you that if we have an already silent agreement to be tolerated and that we have an agreement that the word is obtained and if it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then at least to meet our own exposure to some kind of request for some kind of notice, that the exposure under Articles 225 and 226 would be, as-so justified. This is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The word is from MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and I would like to ask specific questions to the representatives of the Government. I wanted to set it up for Mrs. Dragutinovic, but I assume you're here for her now. Namely, in the shadow of all the unpleasant things that have been happening in Serbia, especially in the last few weeks, first of all, the withdrawal of the mandate of the SRS, the declaration or recognition of the independence of KIM from Montenegro and Macedonia, the collection of gas, the fact that a statute that is at stake in the constitutional order was adopted in Vojvodina, the Government of the Republic of Serbia made a decision a few days ago which I say passed or missed in the shadow of all this I have stated. The decision was voted by the Ministers and you, which is that from 1 January of next year, a unilateral trade agreement with the European Union, i.e. the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which the European Union was not prepared to accept, is being applied. Since it's a trade-species agreement, I'm interested in certain things, and I'd like you to give me an answer to them. First of all, since it obliges us to reduce customs rates, excise duties, to cut taxes on certain grounds, I am interested in how will this affect the budget projection for next year, which measures will be managed by the government to secure the revenue side of the budget for all of what I have stated? I am also interested -- how will the government fill out the revenue side of the budget, because of the fact that the laws that we are now adopting certain taxpayers will be released from the tax benefits they have, because if they pay the principal debt by March next year, they will be given interest, how will this affect the revenue side of the budget? I want to ask the representatives of the government and the leadership of this parliament -- when will the final account of the Republic of Serbia be presented in Serbia after seven years? Will the practice of the current governments continue, given that it is an EU standard and that the EU insists on it? The last question, Mrs Kalanovic, since you are here, is very specific -- how long has it been since the implementation of the project of the regional system for sewage systems in the South Morava Basin, for which the study was done by our people and people from Denmark? I assume you know of how important this is for southern Serbia, for the municipalities of the Pcinj County, and since you are promoting even regional development, give something concrete, so that it is not just a story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5416	The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5417	I speak on the basis of article 100, as you said, and in relation to Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to remind, first of all, that, for the public of my fellow MPs that this morning at the beginning of the debate, I said to the ruling coalition, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course the President of the Republic, corresponds to the chaotic situation in parliament and in the assembly committees, because in this way some of the more important things are hidden from the public of Serbia, and therefore the stolen mandates of the SRS are, among other things. Mrs. Comic, otherwise you're doing well, to deny yourself every time, you tried earlier, when you spoke to one of the colleagues who spoke this morning about an illegally held board meeting, then you explained how the MPs had the right to participate in the Committee's work, I wrote when you said it, but I don't know if you were informed that this morning it was impossible for the MPs to participate in the Committee's work. I remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that the Committee also participates in the work of committee members in one way, and MPs who are not members of the Committee in another way, that I do not elaborate, but I only remind you and ask you to give the exact facts when you answer to fellow Members what they are advertising here. A moment ago, you also drew attention to your fellow Christians that he spoke to the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 226, but that he did not ask anyone for an explanation. I now remind you, Mrs Comic, that Dragan Todorovic two days ago asked for an explanation from the official authorities of the Serbian state, familiar with the fact in the newspaper, from UN spokesman Alexander Ivanko, that some talks were being held between Pristina and Belgrade, and that the mediator in those talks was a certain New Zealander Andrew Ledli, whom they designated as the UN. Dragan Todorovic has asked and it has been three days, we haven't received a statement, and now I repeat and supplement the question, if you allow just 10 more seconds -- who on behalf of Serbia talks with this Mr. Ledley, what is the topic of the talks, and why do MPs not have official information about it? We asked three days ago, we still don't know the answer, so we ask again. Thank you, and I apologize for your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5418	The notice you need will be delivered after a part of your presentation is delivered to the foreign ministry, as well as a question, i.e. a request to inform MP Dragan Todorovic. As for your objections about the illegal committee sessions, in the National Assembly, no committee session is illegal, each one is scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and in each committee are members and members of the Members of Parliament. You are absolutely right to apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at committee meetings, as is the case at the meeting of the National Assembly. If there have been cases of breach of the Rules of Procedure by the chair or chair of the Assembly Committee, then that is the reason for the wish to seek a word on the basis of Article 100(1) and to describe the type of infringement of the Rules of Procedure made at the session of the Board. The People's MP Milorad Krstin did not request any notice from anyone. (Clock voices: three minutes and 15 seconds.) ) The National Messenger throws out of the bench, please do not do this because it is the basis for giving a warning measure, as forbidden conduct in the National Assembly. The People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade asked for information, asked for explanations. I'm obliged to give those notices. She mentioned that I was wrong to say that in my presentation, after you received your word, and you sought her on the basis of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you had an exhibition in which you did not ask for any notice, which is a serious abuse of the rights of the MPs to receive words, and according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. All I asked you to do is, while you are already abused by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, do so by allowing me not to give you any notices for violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for disrespecting the National Assembly and for having an inappropriate relationship with the chairman and all MPs present in the hall. The word is from MP Mirko Munjic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 100 and on Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'd like to talk about privatisation, because that's one way to fill our budget, so I'd like to have two questions. One refers to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy... (President: National MP, Article 206. [[off microphone]] The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly reads - when the National Assembly votes non-trust to the Government, or to a member of the Government, it makes a decision on the resolution, and the President of the National Assembly immediately informs the President of the Republic. National MP, at the beginning of your presentation, you said you were calling for article 206. Please either stand up straight or there's no way you can get a word in. So, the People's MP is correcting himself. The MP has corrected the statement of the member to whom he is calling. Here you are, Article 226.) Article 226. In accordance with Article 226, I wanted to ask the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which is: how many workers were left out of work in the cancelled privatisations? The second question is for the Ministry of Justice: how many criminal charges, which after the operational work, so after the work by the Ministry of Justice, which were filed against the responsible persons, were processed in the privatisation process? I can say that privatisation in our country is done in certain concentration circles, so in the first concentration round there are a number of companies that are well known and who can participate in the tender and who can buy them. These are, for example, "The Irons" Smederevo, RTB Bor, etc. In the second concentration round, those companies, as we know, are only bought for three euros. I'll remind you of cements, sugars, brewers, etc. In the third concentration round are companies that buy local tycoons, and in the fourth are those who or no one buys, so that are not sold so far, because there are no interested in them, or who buy interested in the employee order. I have a full list of these companies that are privatized and in which privatisation has been annulled and criminal charges against the responsible persons and against the owners of these companies. But that's not gonna happen. Many of these criminal charges are in the drawers of some public prosecutors or their deputies. They don't process, so there's nothing. For the sake of the public and for the sake of these workers who, unfortunately, lost their jobs in the privatisation process, I'll just mention some, I don't have enough time to mention everything, but for example, PIK Cačak, the production of chips, criminal charges raised, the company tends to be ruined by the customer, specifically so that it does not work; Hidrograding traffic Cačak, against those responsible in the privatisation process of criminal charges, privatisation cancelled; AD "7 July" Cačak, raised criminal charges for abuse of official position, also cancelled; AD "Autotransport" Gornji Milanovac, first cancelled privatisation, launched criminal charges, then the company returned to the owner, probably promised to be good; "Autoservis" Cačak, a report was filed to the public prosecutor, privatisation was annulled; "Intertrans" Lucani, also raised criminal charges, no privatisation. The common features of all these companies are that workers are out of work, that production is completely dead and that the fate of criminal charges against responsible persons is uncertain.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5420	The word has been made by MP Nikola Savic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1), followed by MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I would like to say immediately that this Rules of Procedure applies to the President of the National Assembly, in this case to the chairman, Mrs Comic. Perhaps it is a good thing that I express this violation of the Rules of Procedure in front of Mrs. Comic, because it seems to me that she is stricter than Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. She's more rigid in the application of the Rules of Procedure. What I'm about to say about this member of the Rules of Procedure, she'll probably be able to apply. I'm going to quote pages 3 and 4 of this Rules of Procedure. So it's about the president of the National Assembly, it's about Article 27(3). "old on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly", and item 4. "is concerned about the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly." I still have to remind myself of what the working bodies of the National Assembly are, here on page 10 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, in chapter 5 of the title "Committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly". So the committees are the working bodies of the National Assembly, and we here have a situation for individual committees to be chaired by citizens. It seems to me that there are four such committees. We also have a situation that this morning one such committee, the Finance Committee, was chaired by a citizen, or rather a citizen. In all of this, it may not be the worst thing for a citizen to chair, but the worst part is that the same citizen, or citizen, dared to deny the right to speak to a legitimate and legitimate MP. So, Mrs. Komic, I ask you to bring the work of the National Assembly, the work of the working bodies of the National Assembly in line with the Constitution, with the law, with the Rules of Procedure, with parliamentary practice and that you have in mind everything I have told you about. Don't accuse us of being late for Europe. What you are doing will certainly not bring Serbia or anyone else to Europe. On this road you're going to Europe, we won't get far from Surcin, or the Surcin clan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5422	There's no breach of Article 27 in either the third or the fourth indent. The President of the National Assembly shall take care of the consistency of the work of the Assembly's working bodies, and the Committee on Finance shall be chaired by the Parliament of People, Mr Jorvanka Tabaković, having all the rights and responsibilities arising from the status of the MP. It can be considered a violation of the reputation of the National Assembly if it is otherwise claimed for the speaker, that is, if people who are seen in the direct transmission of this session are led astray, because they can conclude that there are citizens in this assembly who chair the committees or sit on committees. On behalf of the President of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, and currently trying to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure during this session, there are only MPs in the National Assembly, who have the status and mandate of the MP and all the rights and duties that arise from it, and so is the chairmanship of several Assembly committees that you have listed, one of which is the Committee on Finance. I ask you to keep an eye on the language that we speak to each other and to keep an eye on what kind of information we give to the public, especially when we call upon the obligation to speak the truth. People's MP Milorad Krstin wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100, paragraph 1, and after that, MP Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, as an MP from the SRS Parliament Club, I respect the Rules of Procedure. I went out, I said what was the breach of the Rules of Procedure, In 225 and 226, and in my presentation, I noticed that it was 3.05 minutes. As an MP who respects the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I interrupted my presentation, with what I intended, as I am now, to report again and to refer my suggestions to the Government, as a national MP representing Serbian citizens. However, you always made your comment, which after my three minutes was about and Mrs Verice Radete who went out, went about a minute and a half, that was why I left, respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, right after three minutes and five seconds. I couldn't just ask a question, i.e. to give a suggestion to the government to still meet the citizens of Serbia who, regardless of what you want now, first gas payment or payment, and somewhere 63% of payments immediately, and in the spring of the other 37%, that once again the Serbian government will consider it well, because you will not be able to help with this price of gas heating households, but only to help cool these households. That, Mrs. Komic, was my suggestion to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now you have time for another minute, so finish my speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5424	People's MP, for the second time, you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. Art. In 225 and 226, it obliges you to look for information, and there is no way to get word of it, not to violate the reputation of the National Assembly, to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and to say in the second report that you have suggestions for the Government and that you do not once again seek any notice and show a minimum of knowledge about how the provisions of this Rules of Procedure apply. I give you my first warning. The word has been made by MP Suleiman Spaho, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). After that, National MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5425	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 225th and 226th, and I'm asking for an explanation from the People's Office of the President, and here's the reason why. The family of Aleksinca Brankovic, otherwise of Roma nationality, was admitted to the People's Office of the President on Wednesday. And look at the wonders, take them in and schedule them to come in six months. The reason is that they explained that their house collapsed on the 26th of this month, and that's the day after tomorrow. Normally, people are gunned down by it. I ask for a notice, why the People's Office is not president or president Tadic, but he can't, he's constantly traveling and he's not here and he can't even talk to ordinary citizens, why they haven't responded. I am fortunate to have addressed Mr Vita Mihajlovic, president of the National Council of Roma, and I have also addressed Macuri Vladimir, Koka Ljuan, who are representatives or work in the Roma protection organisation. They reacted, normally and Protector of the citizens, and with the understanding of the municipal self-government, they came to the conclusion that this Roma family did not tear down the house because this time, winter, etc. Mr. Vita Mihajlovic, president of the National Council, told me that the position of the National Council is that Roma who built buildings with solid material for more than ten years do not have the right of local self-government to destroy them until they find an adequate solution to their dwellings. On behalf of the Brankovic family, I ask the local self-government of the Alexinac to regulate it and to find them some sort of accommodation, provided they crash to find them some adequate accommodation in Alexinac. What is difficult for me as an MP, and above all as a man who accepts other creeds, this is a sign as much as the National Office, and especially Mr. Tadic takes care of these citizens. I'm trying more time and through this pay phone to say that it's not exactly what you're talking about here in the Assembly, dealing with national minorities, especially since the National Minorities Committee has not yet formed, and there's our only chance, we who are members of that committee, to tell the problems of national minorities and citizens who are other religions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5426	People's MP, do you agree to refer the request for an explanation to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights as well? Thank you. I ask the Service to refer the question, or the request for information that the MP is asking for, about the citizens Mr Spaho spoke about, on the basis of the stenogram and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. The word is a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, followed by the National MP Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5427	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, under Article 226, ask for a notice and an explanation from the current National Assembly of Ms Gordana Comic, who, as far as I know, is an economist by profession, how will 800,000 unemployed persons in Serbia and their families, as well as the same number of those who work and for two or three years do not receive salaries, survive this winter? For the past eight years since the five-octobaric changes, it has confirmed that democratic governments, including this current yellow-red government, cannot and will not solve Serbia's citizens' material and social problems. In Serbia, something collected daily from the constitution of a yellow-red company. The culmination of the collection has been these days since they've been collected, more than once from this pay phone as we've heard, the gas 60%, the supplies, there's been an announcement of impulse collection in fixed telephony, as well as the collection of communals. It is evident that the Serbian government is not interested in Serbian citizens and not only is it not trying to solve the material existential social problems of the same ones, but its daily gatherings lead them to even greater misery and poverty. This is the result of 100 days of bad policy of the existing government. In Serbia today, the wealth of the rich and the poverty of the poor is at work. The SRS believes these gatherings are inhumane, unfounded and endangering the lives of many Serbian citizens. The Serbian government should know that Serbian citizens cannot live by the euphoric promises of Mr Djelic, but the Prime Minister should openly tell Serbian citizens, but this must not be from Mr Boris Tadic, first of all, that the Serbian government is not interested in economic growth, that it is not interested in investment, or only in the selective ones, which leads citizens to the idea that they are working under cereals; secondly, that it is not constantly growing poverty and that it is not interested in constant gatherings of basic existential goods. How long will we listen to the daily systematic media brainwashing of the Serbian people about Euro-Atlantic integration and utopia of a better life waiting for us there? How is it possible that the same record has been spinning for eight years? Why are they insulting this people's intelligence? It only takes a little bit of morale to recognize the full collapse of political ideology of the ruling coalition. The fact and common sense speak as long as it has led us as a people to accept the sick ambitions of an interested group of people gathered around the DS, as well as the uncritical acceptance of a highly problematic ideological project entitled the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5428	Three minutes. Since the notice has been requested from me, all the necessary data on poverty, the number of poor people, the areas in Serbia, and the less poor, are on the government of Serbia's website, where a key word of poverty reduction strategy is sought. The macroeconomic parameters, therefore, monetary policy and projections for 2008-2012, 2008-2015, 2008-2020, are on the NBS website, at the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. The strategy of balanced development, results, data, comparative data is on the Ministry of Economy and Equal Regional Development website, within the framework of a strategy on Serbia's future even development. It's data from our official, home-based websites, which I'm looking for myself, and I'm getting all the information I need. If you are particularly interested in the web site in other languages, we can do so without a session of the Assembly, but thank you for the topic you have opened, because it is important to talk about it. The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After him is the Messenger of the people, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basis for my notification is Rule 225 and 226. I request a notice and an explanation from the competent ministry, the minister, the Energy Agency to give me an answer on who in Serbia are gas distributors, how many are there, how did they get gas distribution licenses, what are the conditions for obtaining a gas distribution license and how much do they have the margin for gas distribution per meter of cubic gas? I'll tell you one example, one local distributor has a monthly profit of at least two million dinars on gas sales. It depends on whether it will have more sales, how many connections it has and how much it has installed the gas network connections in that city. That gas distributor gasses at the bar, he only has three employees at most. We know the VAT on gas is 8%, so you see how much in five months there's a gas distributor at the bar. The gas distributor at the bar earns a season of 90 to 200 000 euros, which was a profit at this price before the purchase. I'm responsible, and I've claimed from this pay phone, the price of gas can't be higher than it was before it was collected. I can doubt and question here, and I mean, when this gas deal is signed, it's very clear here, and it's simple, when a freeway pipeline passes through Serbia in two years, the price of gas will be much cheaper. There won't be an intermediate gas sale. That's why these intermediaries you've listed now, Ali Shen, Zecevic, I don't know, but it's good, you better say their names, we won't, there's more people, we know very well, and we call it short and clear, and all of Serbia's citizens, it's the gas mob gentlemen. That's what you go to jail for, that you've kept quiet now or a little bit after, but time will come in at least five or six months, when a lot of people about gas will go to jail. These people estimate that in two years, there's a highway pipeline passing, there's no more installation, there's nothing left, and now it's time for them to make as much money on the gas as possible, because there's no more after that. This is the main question and the main answer. Everyone else who talks here, except the SRS, I think they've built themselves into an increase in gas and I'm free to claim from this place. We have a problem in our Kruševac municipality, but I won't talk about it now. I'll get back to you later because I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5430	I ask the service to refer the question from the Members of Parliament's stenogram to the competent ministry, or the Agency. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After that, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5431	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the interests of the citizens of the Pomorava district I come from are at risk of not fulfilling the obligations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am asking for a notice based on Rule 226 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, from the Ministry of Infrastructure, since that ministry had an obligation to compensate for damages recorded by the Commission for the assessment of damages, resulted from the explosions of the ammunition warehouse at the military facility "7. July" at Paracino, and on the reconciliation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's obligations. To remind the government, the MPs and the public in Serbia, the explosion took place on 19 October 2006, today in October 2008, so two full years have passed since the event. A large number of persons, both physically and legally, are waiting for the Serbian government, i.e. the Ministry of Infrastructure, to pay for the remaining damage. Since this explosion, the most damage has been recorded in the municipality of Paracin and the municipality of Cupri, and partly in the municipality of Jagodin. What surprises me is the fact that there is no evenly paid damage to all the municipalities affected by this unfortunate event. For example, in Paracino, most of the damage was paid, in Turkey smaller. Thus, in Turkey, as far as the damage done to the property of the natural persons has not been paid another 2,114,000 dinars, and as far as the damage to the business facilities is concerned, the damage is estimated to be much greater and is at the rate of 101,500,000 dinars, which has also not yet been paid. I'm talking about the official data I received in the county of Cupri. On behalf of the damaged citizens and legal persons, I ask the government when will the damage that the state has caused them be paid? What was the state waiting for for two years? It is barely about 2m euros for all damaged facilities in Pomorava County. Based on this information on the million-dollar gas commissions, the waste of money for the many unnecessary agencies that the government is wasting, that's not a big amount of money. Most citizens stand houses, cottages, small businesses like two years ago, with no roofs, cracked walls, fallen windows, with destroyed carpentry. Some also had to raise loans to make them fit, because they work in them and live on their work. So, I ask for an answer or a notice from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Minister Mrkonjic, but also from the Serbian government, unless the Ministry of Infrastructure is able to do so - when the final payment of damaged citizens is planned based on official Commission findings on damages to the Ministry of Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5432	The consultations were only with my People's MP, to whom exactly if not the Ministry of Infrastructure -- did the Secretary-General of the Government or the cabinet of the Prime Minister? Yes, the MP agreed to refer a stenogram of his request for notification to both the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Secretary-General of the Government. The word has a folk letter from Vjerica Radeta, followed by Parliament MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the other day I began a debate on the basis of Article 201. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and with you, Mrs. Komic, have failed to agree on my position as far as I can speak on the basis of that member. I'm still saying it's five minutes, but I wouldn't be getting into that kind of debate right now, but I want to talk about what's the point, and it's about my intention to talk about it on the basis of that member. I would like to remind you that when Members of Parliament ask for information or a statement from the competent authority through the President of Parliament, because this enables us by our Rules of Procedure, we receive answers, from time to time, not on a regular basis, and in the meantime I have received a reply from Mrs Malovic, Minister of Justice. The issue referred to the Serbian state's attitude towards the indicted Serbs in The Hague. As a member of the defense team, Dr. Vojislav Seselj and we all have experience on the team that doesn't match what's in the answer to the question he's asked. We know, we reminded of this more travellership of Serbia, that the state of Serbia has no relationship with its citizens in The Hague tribunal, but therefore it has all the doors open for the UN tribunal's prosecution. I remind you, and we have spoken several times about that all the archives in Serbia have been open to UN tribunal investigators, and today, with all the documents they needed, the seals of state secrets, military secrets, official secrets have been removed. So, for the UN tribunal, as far as the Serbian states are concerned, there are no secrets, they can work and use the documentation they need. If they are already doing so, then the authorities would have to know, and above all I mean the National Council for Co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia so-called, that everything they give for use, that is, all the information they give and all the documents they give to the representatives of The Hague prosecution, would have to give and defend at the same time, now I am speaking specifically about the defence of Dr Vojislav Seselj, of course that applies to the other Hague prisoners. It's been three minutes. I'll keep this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5434	There is no breach of Article 201, since an article in 201 treats parliamentary issues, and we are in the course of a session on budget rebalancing, so the injury did not occur. The word is by MP Milan Avramovic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1). After him is the word of the Messenger of the people Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on members of 225 and 226, in which I first inform the public that the famous Milos Milankovic, the signator of a contract that burdens Serbia's mediator, has committed another crime as the director of the Elektro Network of Serbia and against whom criminal charges have been filed. Here, I'll read it, because in three minutes, I can't explain everything. So Milankovic abused the official position, contrary to Articles 5 and 6. Public procurement law because it did not call a tender for the transport of autotransformators purchased by the Croatian company "Cončar Energy Transformator d. Oh.". On the side of why they bought from Končar, who intervened here, which is Mrs Dulic-Markovic's role, we'll talk about it some other time. So, according to a contract he concluded with the Croatian firm Končar, Serbia's Elektro Network was to deliver two autotransformators to a traffic station in Belgrade, as specified in Article 2 of the contract. Serbia's power grid, watch out now, subsequently changed the destination to which autotransformators should be delivered, so Končav's company "Zagrebtrans" from Zagreb to the railways only brought them to Resnik railway stations in Belgrade and Novi Sad. Director Milankovic then decided that autotransformators from these stations, instead of in Belgrade, are driving to the Roman Shancheva transfostations, i.e. in Subotica. Such a decision under the Law on Public Procurement demanded the launch of a new tender for this transport because such transports are extremely expensive and prices are moving up to 300,000 euros. Instead of calling the tender, Milanković directly arranged the transport with Končar, who hired Zagrebtrans for these needs, and Zagrebtrans then handed the whole business to the domestic company "Eurosped", which was registered at the address Splitska 44/6 in Zemun. Therefore, the transport of autotransformator to Novi Sad has already been completed, while the transport of the second autotransformator for the train station in Resnik has arrived special wagon Zagrebtrans. In this way Milankovic misused the official position of Eurosped and Zagrebtrans, allowing them to achieve an unlawful advantage, which is prohibited by Article 242. Criminal code. Also, it is said in the contract, Milankovic abused the official position when he did not charge from the Croatian company through the bank guarantee 10% of the total value of the job contracted. Therefore, the unrelenting banking guarantee that Končar had to and did not give, as provided for in Article 8 of this Treaty, caused damage based on the delay in the account. The account based on Article 12 of the contract mentioned is 05% of the value of the job for each week of the delay.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5436	National MP, on the basis of the member you've called upon, you're obliged to seek some sort of explanation. Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure beyond the measures agreed by a silent agreement to use and abuse it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5437	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again because I haven't been able to ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5438	You will not report to the People's Parliament again by the Rules of Procedure, but I warn you that we are all obliged to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you have been given a word on the basis of Article 100(1), because you want to talk about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in your presentation you quote Article 226 and do not even comply with the provisions of Article 226, these are serious infringements of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are the basis for giving criminality to the first, second reminders. Therefore, if we already have a silent agreement on the use and abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I ask that we respect that agreement. The word for the change of order has a folk letter from the Verica Radet, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5439	Thank you very much for this change in order, because I would really like to continue in continuity what I started on the basis of Article 201. So, the National Council of the Republic of Serbia for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal is obliged to deliver each document to The Hague prosecutor at the same time to the defence team, I am speaking again in a concrete case on the defence of Dr Vojislav Seselj. That's never happened before. We have repeatedly warned of this fact, we have had confidence that it will be so in the future. Here's what's going on. When the prosecution, who knows how many months, translates a certain text into Serbian, then delivers it to Vojislav Seselj, then we find out what it is, means with a delay of a few months, and then we have to look for a particular document, so that after our search, I have to admit when we're looking for something then in a relatively short time, although not every time again, we get it. So, the question that was raised was precisely the attitude of the Serbian state towards Serbs in The Hague tribunal, of course because of the fact that The Hague tribunal is an anti-Serbian formation and that only Serbs there receive high sentences of imprisonment, that Haradinaj, Oric are released, etc., and then, in the second part of this response, says: when it comes to the threat of the human rights of the defendants so far, those persons have never addressed in any case been aided by state authorities, that also applies to Vojislav Seselj. Of course Vojislav Seselj did not speak to any of the state authorities, nor does he intend to speak. You do not expect Vojislav Seselj to address any help to Boris Tadic, who has worked hard to try, along with Tomislav Nikolic, to break up the SRS, of course failed to do so, but cannot be expected to do so by such a man and by such authority, since in Serbia, in the work of the dictatorships of Boris Tadic, Mr Seselj is speaking to anyone from this authority, nor will he do so. I warn, I will probably go over ten seconds, that Vojislav Seselj does not have privileged communication with his legal advisers, that this has happened because Tomislav Nikolic went public with a fake stenogram with the alleged defence team Vojislav Seselj, and the consequence of this is that Tomislav Nikolic intended not only to kidnap the party Vojislav Seselj, but to help The Hague prosecutor and The Hague tribunal kill Vojislav Seselj there.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5440	There is no violation of Article 201, as Article 201 cannot be applied to a session of the principled review on the draft amending and supplementing law on the budget, only at a special session which is set out at the request of a parliamentary group attended by a minister, Prime Minister and at which MPs have the right to ask parliamentary questions. That member is not in service during this session. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, First Vice-President of the National Assembly, reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Mrs. Komic, I wouldn't quote about the weather, and since the question is very important, I'm going to try to fit in in in three minutes, but if I can't, I'm not saying I'm going to answer again right now. Namely, I come from Odzac municipality, and it is intended that the Municipal Court of Odzacs will be abolished, which has caused a great deal of dissatisfaction, primarily with the citizens of the Odzac municipality and then with the Municipal Court, with the judges themselves, with all the employees of the court, with the public prosecutor's office, with a large number of lawyers in the Municipality of Odzac. But most importantly, it's a dissatisfaction first and foremost for the citizens of the Odjaks municipality. The court would reportedly move, and today there is a meeting in Sombor in the District Court, and Odzac municipality, headed by its president, Odzac municipality, Serbian Radical Milan Cuk, is normally meeting with the Municipal Court, and the Bar Association, as well as with our citizens, and currently collecting petitions for the court's failure in Odzac. I am sure the public knows that, unfortunately, a judge was killed in the Odzac Municipal Court, which was the first case in Serbia. I don't think that's why this court would be lifted. Just for the sake of data and citizens, I say, we're currently collecting petitions and we think in a short time we're going to collect an incredibly large number of signatures, and I think the Ministry of Justice should think hard and come out first of all to the people of Odjaks, not to go to Sombor, because the costs are incredibly high. And Odžaki municipality is one of the municipalities where privatisation is, I can say freely, in the most generous way done, that absolutely all the companies that are privatized don't work. So, all the workers are at home and now they're on their own. Odzaci municipality has 38 thousand inhabitants, and unfortunately, we still have a few agricultural cooperatives left, where about 30% of the Odzaci municipality's population worked in these cooperatives, and now they're starting to privatise, three are privatized. I'll talk about it some other time, when agriculture comes on the subject. For now, Mrs. Comic, since I've overstepped my time, I wouldn't really be using it, I'll have to report back later, I'll have information in the course of the day that's agreed at the Sombor District Court, so I have to present my obligations as a MP in front of the people of Odzak municipality to address the Ministry of Justice and to you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5442	People's MP, reorganization of courts is the subject of a law that is in the works. It is on the website of the Justice Ministry and when all MPs of the Assembly decide they will be on the agenda here in the Assembly. The MP says there can be a kind of public debate, that in the use of requests for the use of members of the Rules of Procedure, that's all we have in mind. These are the notices we should be making, not looking for, because the lawmaking process is, I hope, a debate and, I'm quite certain, the Ministry of Justice's willingness to take into account the suggestions during the debate in progress. The final vote on the bill will be given to all of us when we have an agreement on the agenda. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I have first reported to you under Rules 225 and 226, infringements of the Rules of Procedure. I was talking for three minutes and five seconds, so I could turn around and finish what I first went out for, which took two minutes and 14 seconds. After that, I got out of the O.R. and I heard I got a warning. I would quote an article in 106 to see why I was warned as a member of the SRS parliamentary group. Article 106 says this: "The warning is given to the MP who approached the speaker without permission of the National Assembly"; I did not approach the speaker; "which speaks before he asked and received the word, which, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda". I think the SRS MPs are too serious to show the situation regarding gas-gathering that will hit Serbian citizens. I don't think that's beyond the agenda, and I'm not the only one who spoke. I'm sorry that one of you is from the opposition, who made the decision, don't go out on this one. "If a speaker interrupts and throws or interferes with speakers or otherwise endangers freedom of speech." I was at the pay phone. "If it brings out facts and assessments concerning the private life of other persons." I didn't. "If he uses swearing and offensive expressions." I didn't. "If other procedures violate order at a session or act against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure." I didn't. Gentlemen, I got a warning, I wasn't in the O.R. Unbelievable. For the vice president of the National Assembly, a member of the DS, it seems to be a form of democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5444	There's no damage to article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Milorad Krstin received a first warning measure because he did not want to do anything other than violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in a repeated case. It is asked that, using Articles 225 and 226, in its presentation, it shall request any notice from anyone. He got the word the second time, again he didn't want to have his show-off with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. He was throwing himself out of the picture, so he could read that I asked the People's MP, Milorad Krstin, not to throw him out of the place, because that's the basis for a warning. I asked once again that none of us would do anything to create the basis for the sentence, because no one in parliament likes it, but when the basis for a warning is created, then such an unpopular measure must be expressed, because it preserves the dignity of the National Assembly and takes care of the order in the meetings of the National Assembly. The word has a National MP, Momcilo Duvnjak, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After that, MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 225 and 226, requesting a notice and explanation from the competent ministry, and I'm asking why the gas thermopower plant in Novi Sad, which is 900 megawatt, is worth 609m euros. When the gas power plant was to be finished it was to work and employ 500 people, in its construction by the time it was finished, about 5,000 people were to work. We know that Novi Sad, when the biggest energy consumption is around 800 megawatts. This power plant was supposed to be built and used electrical energy for export as well. I ask the government and the competent ministry who was supposed to be the head of the business, is it true to mention the name of a professor, Dr Milan Bačević, Tomislav Nikolic, a Swiss businessman, a mobster of Russian origin? Who's the woman who's been waiting for these two at the airport in Switzerland? Why did they go to a bank in Switzerland, what they were doing at a bank in Switzerland, whether they were making a commercial or taking money? I'm looking for an emergency response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5446	I ask that the Members of Parliament's stenogram, with a request for notification, be addressed to the Ministry of Energy. The word has a National MP Milan Avramovic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5447	I appeal to Article 225: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP." At no point did I violate this position in the previous presentation by informing the MPs that the one who signed the agreement is that. the contract to impose a criminal plea on Serbia for abuse of the official position in the Elektro Network of Serbia as director. And I don't see anything wrong with that, Madam Chairman, if it bothered you because it's your coalition partner, I think you should hold back and let me finish...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5448	National MP, the position of Articles 1 225 and 226 is very clear. You're asking for the word to speak of breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get your word and say that some of your rights and duties in Articles 225 and 226 are not fulfilled. The fact that you have information has been granted the right, and the silent agreement on the use and abuse of this member is that you are looking for information, because from the work of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Rights and responsibilities you feel that you are missing some notices. Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure and that what you wish to say when you received your word in this second notification of the Sumerita with the provisions of Art. 225 and 226. You can't get word that you're giving notice by this article because you don't know what it is that other MPs consider their rights and duties. I'm warning you to take your exposure to sum up this attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5449	I'd like to finish this, so when I'm done hearing your answer, in accordance with Article 100(3)...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5450	People's MP, I warned you, so you can see with a stenogram that you feel you have the right, on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, to give notice to the MPs. You have no right to do that. The section of the rights and duties of the Members of the People's Parliaments and of the Members of 225 and 226 are the subject of our session in this section because the MPs consider that they lack some information and are required to carry out their duties. Please, if you intend to really request a notice, do so on the basis of Article 225(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5451	Therefore, Article 226: "The MP shall have the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he needs to exercise the functions of the Members of Parliament". So I'm asking the judiciary, the justice minister -- when and if Milankovic is going to be prosecuted, to get him arrested so that, first of all, he doesn't affect the witnesses? Secondly, the emergency procedure blocks the workers of Zagrebtrans, who are currently preparing the transport of autotransformator for Subotica without the necessary work permits in Resnik. In this way, I ask the judiciary, it would be prevented to complete the planned crime of abuse of official position and obtaining material benefits to Croatian firms. What am I looking for this for? I have to explain it to the judiciary; therefore, Milankovic has violated the basic standards of the law, which says a public tender must be opened on the bidder for the transport of these autotransformators. He didn't do it, he entrusted the firm with Končar, and thus allowed about 300,000 euros in illegal profits. What is more important, in order for him to do so, he did not charge the bank guarantee to Končar from Croatia, who must pay 0.5% by contract because he is about 40 weeks late and 0.5% goes once a week and the contract is worth about 4,939.160 euros. I ask the question: will the Justice Department do anything about it? Will the D.A. react to my statement from this pay phone and will he return this money from where it came from, because these funds are intended?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5452	The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). The MPs warn that it is time for a break, I think that the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic has the right to, when she has already asked for a word, talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, to get a word in the part of the session where she considers that the injury was committed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5453	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Members of Rules 225 and 226. In order to carry out the function of the MP, I need information on the work of the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency. I'm curious to know what specific activities the Agency is doing to promote exports? Given that Serbian rulers announced a unilateral application of the trade part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement early next year, experts are announcing a more sensitive increase in Serbia's external trade deficit. Our country's export opportunities are very low, so with further increases in imports of goods of general consumption can be counted on the deterioration of the external trade position of our economy. The data suggests that in the first eight months of this year, the world exchange reached $23.67 billion and that it was 39.7% higher compared to the same period last year. This growth is the result of more dynamic imports of no exports. At the same time, the external trade deficit is 41.9% higher than the first eight months of last year. Since the beginning of this year, only $7.72 billion has been exported and imported twice as much as $15.95 billion. It should be noted that it is a highly unfavourable commodity structure of exports and imports. The imports are dominated by the final products intended for wide-ranging consumption, while the products of less value, i.e. raw materials and re-promaterials are exported. It has always been said that our agricultural products are wanted on the market, however, the question is how competitive they are now, because European farmers have strong support through various subsidies, which our agricultural producers cannot count on. What the state does to farmers makes it selective, so subsidies are given to individual privileged users. With all this in mind, the question arises -- what have economic policy makers been doing over the past eight years of transition? The domestic economy is completely unprepared for sharp competition in the European and international markets, and is constantly talking about Europe and going out into the open market. It's nice to award prizes, but let's make available the favourable loans for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and for those outside the yellow company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5454	The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5455	Thank you very much. I'm reporting from Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Komic, I assume that you will soon take a break in work, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I would ask you to request certain information in the course of these breaks, and I will say which, and to inform the MPs. Namely, she called the chairman of some call committee this morning has actually defined the course and way of working at today's session of parliament. In order for us MPs of the SRS, who have our position when it comes to the SRS' kidnapping mandates, and we will not stop asking for what is ours to return to us, but to be able to continue to work today, it is necessary to inform us of the following. First of all, let us get an accurate list of members of the Committee on Finance who attended the Committee's meetings. Then, exactly the list of members of the Committee or of the Members of Parliament who were not members of the Committee, who participated in the work, or spoke about the draft law amending and supplementing the Budget Law, i.e. budget cuts. Third, to provide us with a list of persons who voted, whether they were MPs, in your opinion or in our opinion, but in any case, to provide us with a list of persons who voted in favour of the Government's budget rebalance proposal. I think it's quite optimal for you to inform the MPs of these facts that I was just talking about, and then, on behalf of the MPs of the SRS, we're going to say, on behalf of the SRS, how we're going to assess how we're going to continue today's session. I'm not expecting that information right now, because you certainly don't have it in your head, but I'm asking you to find out and let us know. He can deliver the service to us in writing, wait for us on the bench, or you can let us know from that place, it doesn't matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5456	I ask the service to, in the course of the break, find all the information and provide all the necessary information, and on the basis of the stenograms of the presentation of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet, and if at the request of one of the board members a stenogram is conducted, since I know that this is only done on the request of the members of the board, it is not routine, which is a shame, therefore, if there was a request to conduct a stenogram at the session, that this stenogram is also delivered, at the latest during the first work of the afternoon, if it does not arrive immediately at the beginning, but I do not think it is a problem to arrive at the beginning. I am setting a break of an hour and five minutes and a continuation of the session in the afternoon is at 15 hours and 15 minutes, continuing the debate in the principle of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. Thank you. [[After break – 15/15]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. I'd like to inform you that the Secretary of the Finance Committee is in preparation to give notice at the request of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta. What I can now give as a notice is that the stenographic notes are not kept at the session, but that there is a tone record of the session, so that the document can also be in writing, and the Secretary of the Committee will provide all the necessary information on the asked question. Does the proposing representative, Minister Diana Dragutinovic, want a word? Please, there is a word from Finance Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5458	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, it is my great honor to present to you the proposal for a rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, noting that I am aware that it is not quite standard for the rebalancing to be made in the last quarter of the current year. But even the situation in which the Republic of Serbia is located is not exactly a standard case. I would start my exposés by assessing the latest macroeconomic trends that are in every country, including in the country of Serbia, the basis for making rebalancing. In doing so, even though I am a representative of the government, I will try to be as objective as possible. So I won't look at what's done or what's going to be done through the pink glasses, but I would also ask you to be as real as you can and not always see a glass half-empty. So, on what assumptions is the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget based, along with all social security funds plans? The rate of economic growth, regardless of the start of the global financial crisis, is likely to be around 7 to 7.5% of the social product. It is a dynamic rate in international terms. Of course it can always be more and better, but when you look at the region to which we belong, when you look at countries in transition, and some European countries close to us, such as Bulgaria and Romania, you will see that growth in this country has been significantly higher. Growth is relatively broadly diversified, and that means that a large number of branches have a growth that is either average, so 7%, or greater than that average. The inflation rate is in a single-digit zone or territory somewhere below 10%. We expect, of course, with the help of the world's oil and food prices falling, that it will remain there and be even lower. Of course, as the biggest problem, we see the balance of payments deficits. What we expect for next year is a continuation of positive tendencies despite the global financial crisis. The global financial crisis, simply because Serbia is not an isolated island, must hit Serbia's coast. But what it is, for example, recession for Serbia, is a growth of 4% of the social product. It seems to me that the lower limit of growth is next year. The government is aware of the underlying macroeconomic risk. The underlying macroeconomic risk is the continuation of the global financial market crisis. We must recognise that the dynamic economic growth in Serbia over the past years, as the growth rate has been above 6% in the last three or four years, has been the result of a huge inflow of capital. Many of these capital inflows were not satisfied, but figures say otherwise: 18% of the social product, between 6 billion and 7 billion euros, came to Serbia. It was mostly revenues in form and related to privatisation, to a lesser extent new loans. The effects of the global financial crisis on Serbia's economy are expected in a sense as a drop in capital inflow, and a drop in capital inflow would affect investment and a less dynamic rate of social product growth. I repeat, four percent, that's the lower limit we expect. Why the rebalancing? There are several reasons why the finance ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia have defined themselves as rebalancing. The first reason was, and this was the occasion of the finance ministry, which was wanted to make the final fiscal result a reality. So for the first time, the fiscal outcome, the difference between the Serbian state's income and expenditure, is shown according to international methodology. This is good so we can compare to the world. It is also good for all of us here together, and most Serbian citizens, the professional public, to see how much fiscal burden there is and how much public expenditure. The second reason, I call it sudden happiness, it's incomes are bigger than planned at the end of last year. The revenues are higher by around 10 billion, and then, as we all know, a new government has been elected, and, regardless of the presence of partly the same people in this government, the priorities of this government are significantly different from the priorities of the previous government. What was done and what had already been spent, as the government was formed in July, could not have been made to be gone. So that's what happened. The past just can't be fixed. And the priorities of the new government are, once again, although I am convinced that we all know that: speeding up infrastructure building, financial incentives for strategic investment, improving pensioners' position, financial assistance to young talents, etc. Therefore, the rebalancing of income and expenditure is consistent with development and social priorities and some kind of balance has been reached between social and development objectives. About balance, of course, we can always discuss it. The most common subject of criticism was that the rebalancing was a compromise. I really don't know if there's anyone making any compromises. Life in the family is also a compromise. So you're always making a compromise. The most important thing is to put a limit on how far you can make that compromise. I think this compromise is reasonable under the given political circumstances. I consider it, as Minister of Finance, reasonable, because I have not broken any of the rules of fiscal policy. So there are some rules, like rules of good behavior. These rules apply to fiscal policy. If you don't cross them, you run a responsible fiscal policy. I followed all the rules. Of course, three options are available to fiscal policy makers. I apologize for perhaps getting used to another kind of audience, somehow my natural audience are students, so I would just briefly refer to the first lesson about the fiscal policy that I am giving them, which is what elections the creator of fiscal policy has when it makes the budget. Fiscal policy can be neutral and countercyclical. So, if you're in the expansion phase, the budget has to be restrictive, if you're in the recession phase, the budget has to be expansional. It's a solid and responsible policy. It mainly implies the balance of the balance of payments. There is, of course, a moderate procyclic fiscal policy, and that means that regardless of the cycle phase you are in, you generate a mild deficit, a deficit that is not excessive. And as an excessive deficit, one that is greater than 3% of the social product has been defined. Of course, there is an extremely procyclical or popularly popular populist policy that implies a deficit greater than 3%. To go back to the global figures of budget rebalances. Total revenues increased from 639.6 billion dinars to 650.2 billion, so total revenues increased by 0.4% of gross social product. The revenues that have been increased, therefore, will be better or greater than planned, are, above all, the income tax on citizens, income tax and customs income. Total expenditure increased from 680.5 billion dinars to 695.9 or 0.6% of gross domestic product. The total budget deficit increased from 40.9 to 45.8 billion dinars or 0.2% of the social product. Increasing fiscal policy expansion through rebalancing, I'll say, is not very statistically significant. Fiscal policy is as expansional as it was when we adopted or when you adopted the 2008 budget. What happened and where are the biggest changes compared to the original budget? The increased revenues were used for significantly higher subsidies than planned. Above all, subsidies to the agriculture sector. Subsidies have increased by nearly 10 billion dinars. Also, increased revenues have allowed pension expenditure to rise. I think it's well known that pensions went up 10% once, they're October pensions, and the first payment will be in November. As increased pensions are practically paid in November and December, pension growth by 10% includes all pensioners, including military ones, increased expenditures amounted to 13 billion. Finally, payments to the National Employment Service have been increased. There are obligations of states that are not settled in time in the past. So, three months late, he's paying compensation for the unemployed. We've reduced that delay with this rebalancing. These are the biggest changes in expenditure. They are financed first by increased revenues and by reducing some other expenditures. Relatively small projects within the NIP have been reduced to shift the rest to Corridor 10, and credits, different types of credit, start-up credits, different types of credit to small businesses etc. have also been reduced. To conclude, the fiscal burden and public spending in Serbia is not small, but it is, I say, at an interval of what is the average of the region to which we belong. The fiscal deficit in Serbia is not excessive. He exists. It's not excessive, because it's significantly less than 3%. So, at the level of the average countries in transition, it's significantly below the master's requirements. All fiscal rules are respected. Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency and People's MPs, this is the sustainable budget of the Republic of Serbia. He could've been better. There's room for improvement. This is the choice of this government, please support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5459	I thank Mrs. Minister. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, MP Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs Mladen Grujic and Slobodan Maras, who issued an opinion at the session of the Finance Committee, want a word? Yeah. Mr. Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mrs Dragutinovic, I assume that this Power Point presentation is about the same as I have, which we have downloaded from the site. It's never the same? It is interesting that what you have exposed is here, and that is you in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you are signed. But you've kept some of the things quiet that you've probably met your coalition partners and other colleagues, which I don't argue with is okay and allowed. When it comes to budget rebalancing, what is a basic criticism, it is that public spending has jumped again instead of saving. We come into a situation where we have to criticize you and your government for increasing public spending. I had this pleasure with the help of, or well-willed Vice-President of the Finance Committee, to attend a meeting with the head of the IMF delegation, Mr Jeger, who said about this: it is absolutely impossible to increase pensions through rebalancing and invest in infrastructure. It's something that's absolutely contradictory, something that no responsible government can do, no government that pleads to implement some reforms, to reduce public spending, etc. What is in the budget rebalancing, which I have to draw attention to, what really seals ears when heard, is: strengthening the private sector through the completion of privatisation of existing businesses and the creation of new businesses that will create new investments, exports and new jobs. When you said privatization of public enterprises, I hope you didn't mean NIS. Since I'm a lawyer and you're an economist, I'm sure we'll agree that the privatisation of NIS is not privatisation but ethics. Because we sold a state-owned company to a long state, meaning not a private company. I don't know what you thought you were privatizing over the next two months. Improving the business climate and creating a competitive environment, as preconditions for new investments and changing production structure. Business climate and the creation of a competitive environment, the development of market institutions and the promotion of anti-monopolis policy. So we all know that the basic criticisms that went to the expense of the previous government and at the expense of this government are high corruption, the existence of monopoly. What's to be done in those two months to come, which is why we're doing the rebalancing. This is fantastic. Effective salary control in public enterprises and the state sector, strengthening financial discipline. I fear that through this budget rebalance all the negative consequences of slowing down and stopping reforms are seen. Again, I must quote the IMF delegation chief who said he is afraid that Serbia has missed all the opportunities to carry out real and root reforms, i.e. that this country should take the path it should take. There are also negative consequences due to the monopolization of an inefficient and expensive state. You said here the following, as a proposing - that price control will be carried out in the public sector. Obviously, that's what I said the other day, do we live in the same country? I'm glad you're smiling, but do we live in the same country? Ten days ago, the price of gas was up 60%, you raised your impulses, the citizens must be living in this country that I'm talking about, 60% of you raised the price of gas, you wanted to raise the price of the pulse 300%. Just tell me, is that price control in the public sector? Is there any excuse for that? Everything you say, like good wishes, I respect that, but it's inconclusive. So I repeat, you can't raise tensions and you can't invest in infrastructure. That's what you wrote yourself, and that's what you did, with this rebalancing, you do it. You said here, I have something else to remind you, I'm going to try to finish, since the time I have left is very short, mostly, the point is that you're going to, it's in your Power Point presentation. The measures of fiscal policy and public expenditure, the conversion of savings on subsidies, loans and recapitalisations of announced investment, primarily Corridor 10. You said earlier that there was a drastic increase in subsidies in the economy. So what you have stated in your conclusions is that it is not macroeconomically sustainable to simultaneously increase pension spending, investment in infrastructure, incentives for strategic investment, loans for beginners, subsidies to agriculture, population policy, science, ecology; you are the three things that are most burdensome, which are incompatible together, means pensions, investments in infrastructure and subsidies in agriculture put into this rebalancing. This rebalance dramatically increases public spending. I repeat, instead of showing that the state has to be thrifty, you're acting quite the opposite. And something else I don't understand. You must have worked this rebalancing in August, September, right? I guess that's when you worked. There's been a lot going on over a period that's happened since then... (President: Time, Mr. Marash)... I'll be done now. The LDP is neither on the Finance Committee nor will support this kind of budget rebalancing because we believe that everything is the opposite of what should be, instead of saving -- huge public spending. We think this is extremely irresponsible, that this is not a socially responsible government, this is extremely irresponsible to the citizens of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5461	Thank you. Let me inform you that the representative of the SRS parliamentary group at this point is Milorad Buha, Jorgovanka Tabakovic of the NS MP Zoran Kasalovic of the SPS-PUPS parliamentary group. First, Milorad Buh came forward. Here you go. To inform Elvira Kovac, yesterday was a notice, but again another announcement, and she is a representative of her parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5462	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we received information from the finance minister, who said in his opening statement that it is unusual for the last quarter of the year to rebalance revenue and expenditure in the budget for the current year. Let us immediately say that it is common to change the positions of income and expenditure whenever there are reasons for this. Now the real reasons didn't exist, because we don't have the income side of adequate income to go into the right to rebalance, but there are on the dissipating side of the budget spender's request, and in the later presentation, I'm going to tell you who those who put political pressure on are to rebalance the budget. There is also the task of the future government in the course of pre-election activities to implement, in certain segments of the budget, the spending of funds we do not have in the budget. That's why the 45 billion deficit is suited to the political promises and demands of ministers who came here. We are ahead of us with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of Serbia for 2008. When we talk about the adoption of this law, we must mention and we will have to refer to the decision to give consent to the provisions of the amending and supplementing financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, due to the government's assigned activities in terms of providing adequate funds to increase pensions. In addition, giving consent to the decision to amend and supplement the financial plan of the National Employment Service and the Republic Health Insurance Institute. The budget is normally one of the most significant, not one, but represents the most significant political and economic and financial act adopted by one country, as it covers all assumptions in achieving macroeconomic projections and economic policy objectives, as well as planned measures of economic and fiscal policy that involve and implement state authorities. The 2008 Budgetor set the main objectives of macroeconomic policy and I will read them here: 1) macroeconomic stability; 2) dynamic economic growth and growth in investment activities; 3) employment growth and living standards; 4) the accelerated process of stabilisation and EU accession; 5) the accelerated implementation of economic reforms; 6) more balanced regional development. When this is a little bit deeper, you have the feeling that this is the draft budget of Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, etc., because we will see later from the presentation of budget items that the basis for all that is written in the objectives does not stand. Furthermore, from the economic-financial aspect, the budgetor has set up certain frameworks of financial and economic, so it says - predicts a growth in social gross product of 35.5 billion euros, i.e. a growth of 6% in nominal amount, as stated in dinars of 2.779 billion; an increase in investment activities by 20.2%; exports of goods and services by 25.8%; imports of goods and services that will grow by 20.5%; a decrease in external trade balance compared to a gross social product of 18.9%; a reduction in current balance of payments compared to a gross social product's share of up to 14.1%); a combined debt and a share of external debt compared to a gross social product of 56.8%; inflation in the frameworks of 6%, and a base inflation of 3-6%; an increase in employment of 0.1%; a real growth of 5.3%; a real growth of 5.3%. The draft budgetor, who made this proposal somewhere between the eighth and ninth months, saw certain economic and monetary positions, realised that some corrections and corrections in the budget items had to be made, but still proposed for the 2008 budget rebalancing: an increase in economic activity, an increase in exports and imports, an increase in investment activities, a stable rate of dinar towards the euro, etc. The macroeconomic indicators observed in the first seven months, according to the rebalancer, are the following: inflation 6.5%, baseline 6.8%, and inflation should be 9.5 at the end of the year, meaning single-digit inflation. International inflation is, meanwhile, seen, the seventh month of 2007/2008. 10.5%. An external trading deficit based on seven months somewhere at 4 billion 820m euros. The growth of gross social product remains at 7%, which could be made in the dinar amount to two billion 773.8 million dinars. The current account deficit relative to the gross social product to 18.3 and the number of employees, you see here is a reduction of 0.1%. Average growth of 6% and productivity of work increased to 6.9%. It is very interesting to comment on what the rebalancer has outlined as its tasks that will produce the rebalancing of budget items. Under one -- strengthening the private sector through privatisation and the creation of new businesses that will create new investments, exports and new jobs; improving the business climate; developing market institutions and improving the anti-monopolis climate; effective pay control in public enterprises and the state sector and strengthening financial discipline. Look, these are so wide-ranging settings for one rebalancing that it's impossible in neither the most developed economies in the short term, with small financial resources, to achieve, and with a good state apparatus, with strong discipline, financial and each other, and monetary discipline, to step up in two to three months. Probably the budget promoter thought there was plenty of time ahead, there's enough power, four years, so all of this here is going to happen in that period. But economic and financial, as well as monetary indicators say that everything that's written here doesn't seem exactly like that, and we're going to start with a gross social product. I'm just going to tell you that the gross social product, which is foreseen here for the financial year 2008, is only 68% of the gross social product of 89, when we had far less investment, when we had far less technical and technological equipment, when we had a far smaller and weaker travel connection, telecommunications connection and all other inputs compared to the business and financial year 2008. The budget rebalance shows that the planned budget projection is reduced by about five billion. It's not that small, but if we see what makes you the basis of a gross social product, it should concern us. The largest growth in the gross social product has services, over which this country has the least control options and where the effects of performing these services and performing these jobs and services give the least benefit to the state budget. Bank services, telecommunications services, commercial services and, we could say, construction services, where we may have the most significant effects. Now we'll start with bank services. Bank services make a serious point in the gross social product. However, we in the state banking system have very few state banks. The participation of state banks in total banking capital is somewhere between 10% and 12%. So, more or less private banks and foreign banks, which have opened up classic representations here, do not meet the banking role they should have, they have the highest participation in these services and have the greatest effects. Banks, by placing funds, have committed and over-indebted the population, both entrepreneurs and businesses. When we say over-indebted, then we have to say that the total banking system has placed 312 billion dinars, i.e. three billion and 700 million euros, which is about 400 euros per capita. It's a lot when we know what unemployment is, what problems are, and the employees' low incomes, etc. It concerns and needs to worry about the business's debt, 670 billion allocated funds, which is about eight billion euros. In particular, this concerns state-owned enterprises and private companies that are over-indebted. They won't have from where, especially these state-owned enterprises, and everything will fall back on the burden of the state. We need to talk here, and we need to say that in the banking system, as it is now set, we have the highest interest rates in Europe. Interest rates on credit cash, consumer loans go to banks somewhere between 22 and 30% now. In foreign exchange loans were acceptable, tempting until a month and a half ago, until this global crisis when they moved between...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5463	Mr. Buha, just one moment, I'm sorry to interrupt, because we're approaching 1600 hours, of course your time will be extended. In accordance with the agreement made by the heads of the parliamentary groups, and pursuant to Article 85, we will be working until 20.00 today. As agreed, we won't be working on Monday, we'll continue working on Tuesday at 10.00 hours. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5464	I'm saying, we should be worried about this majority of interest rates because our citizens are unable to get cheaper loans, they're talking about loans to banks, mostly foreign banks, which are high-interest assets. This must concern the Ministry of Finance and all state authorities because citizens in these conditions cannot repay loans. The best shows us the situation in other Eastern European countries, the same situation was in Hungary, it was in Poland, Czechoslovakia, etc., because citizens and the population were eager for credit, eager for wide-ranging goods. They're in debt. The moment they lost their job, they stayed on the street. Where do you get it back from? Then come the payment instruments. The payment instruments are mortgages. At that moment, there is a situation where people are left without houses, without apartments, without the movables they bought, etc., unloved prices, and this is what the state authorities of Serbia who create monetary and financial policies must know and take action. In banks, more importantly, it's that we have to say that the profit of the banking system is growing year by year, precisely because of these high interest rates. The ratio of passive and active interest, the relationship between loans taken, as a rule the bank takes loans at foreign banks at the rate of, before this crisis, five to seven percent, here they place them up to twenty percent, you see what the difference is, then we see that the profit of banks from year to year is increasing. In 2006, sixteen billion is the profit of all banks, in 2007 21 billion. In seven months this year, 21 billion dinars. By the end of the year, up to 33 billion dinars are expected. So somewhere around 400m euros, that's all that citizens and businesses turn into a banking system. That's what we need to worry about. We privatized the banks, sold the banks, in some situations and donated the banks to foreign banking systems that entered our country. The least of the benefits were the state and our citizens. The finance minister here spoke very little of the foreign trade deficit. The deficit needs to be worried. He's already experienced cataclysmic positions. In 2001, the foreign trade deficit was two billion 560, in 2006, six billion 270, for the first eight months eight billion 230m euros, with 13 and a half billion dollars expected by the end of the year. This will be an increase in 2008 from 2007 to 70%. We've got huge trading systems coming in. We import, this country and this government, both ministers and people working in ministries, lobby for individual systems. That's why we have this. Domestic production is being destroyed. That's why we have this system. On the other hand, the government does not have a national strategy to increase exports and reduce imports. There is no budget, no stability, no prosperity in this country until we have a national strategy that will know exactly which entity is doing what job. Until export funds are created, there is no stability in foreign trade. What needs to be done is that last year we had a surplus of 320m euros in external trade in the exports of agricultural products during 2006, in the course of 2007, 700m euros. This is very good, however, not the state behind it all. The subsidies the state gives are very small. The state must invest in the agrarian budget and the agrarian budget will transfer funds to agriculture, agriculture to exports, we receive quality foreign exchanges, healthy foreign exchanges, from domestic production, from farmers, and do nothing to increase the budget. We have been talking here in this high house for years about the budgets allocated to agrarian, for agriculture, having to be double or even three times that. The SRS, I'll tell you later, suggests that in the framework of the agrarian budget for this year, over 50 billion are allocated for business 2009. From where? I don't know. Find it. Because if one activity, agriculture, gives such good results without almost any government involvement, because if we invest 200m euros, we give to improve agricultural production, and we get the product that we sell for a billion and 700m and we make a surplus of 700m euros, that's a good result. That's what we have to invest in. Otherwise, this government and this society have no priorities. We don't know where we invest. We're disposing of funds, instead of targeting them primarily, into a particular area that's going to give us a result. The balance of payments deficit should also worry. What mostly the World Bank and the IMF object to is a huge deficit in the balance of payments. We cover it with various foreign credits, incredits from privatisation revenues, etc., but we must mention, for this business year it will be at 500m euros, which is about six billion euros. It's a huge asset, and this society can't settle for a long time. In the short term, yes, but in the long run, we just can't take it. What's the IMF nagging us? The reduction in public spending, the reduction in foreign debt, the particular debt of the state, the borrowing of private persons, the increase in exports and the reduction of imports, the total reduction and balance of external trade, the reduction of deficits in the budget, and by these changes, we increase it with this rebalancing and now from about 14.8 billion dinars to 45.7. Furthermore, they impose a restrictive monetary and fiscal policy, etc., but basically we are not acting on the orders of the IMF and the World Bank, and that will cost us anyway. Since my time is about to end, let me just have two more minutes around the conclusions. How can we talk about the development and stability of the state when we take such negative macroeconomic steps? Nine billion dollar balance of payments, foreign trade deficits of about 13...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5465	Mr. Buha, can you bring the end?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5466	Let me have another minute. How can we talk about stability if our external debt came to a level of 63% of gross social product, and we ourselves said we'd take it down to 58.6%. We use government funds for purposeless purposes. The budget's default to the tolls amounting to more than 30 billion dinars, representing about 4.8% of the budget, which would have to be settled because these are long-running jobs. Instead of hiring, the draft budgetor here says that we're going to...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5467	Speak three minutes longer, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5468	I'm done. What is the position of the SRS is that we cannot accept all of this as stated by the budget's rebalance. What the government should stop is a rapid decline in demographic structure, we each year have 30,000 people less, 500 people educated every year are going abroad. We're not doing anything in the field of employment. We don't have conditions for development, we don't have conditions for stability, we don't work for employment. This government is both social, economic and economically unhealthy, and it as such must go into oblivion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5469	Representative of the LDP parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5470	I must confess, Madam Minister, that we were pleased when you took up office to discuss the reduction of public spending, the need for the state to tighten its belt and adapt to reality. But you shut up very quickly. Now, during this debate on the budget, I will address you, but in essence I see Dinkic, Vuk Draskovic, and Nenada Chanka, and Sulejman Ugljanin and Rasim Ljajic and all those who make up the ruling majority, so don't blame me if I'm a little bit more energetic, it's better to see you than all of them. You say this is the compromise budget, perhaps between the DS and the SPS, but for the LDP, the budget should be a compromise between populism and accountability. That's why we think this isn't, this compromise that needs Serbia isn't. For us, the government has missed a chance to change our economic policy so far. We think politics is bad, the rebalance changes, she hasn't changed. It's the same as before. For LDP, this new economic policy should be based on the consumption of only what was created, and this rebalancing is still expendable, and it is well known which people are so called. We think the problem is that we continue, ever since Djindjic's murder, we've been cheating on each other, and all together, society, that in this country reforms continue or even accelerate. The only one we can't fool is our partners in Brussels, so I think the damage will be great. The increase in budget costs is for condemnation, as it is clear to the sparrows on the border that Serbia's economy cannot finance this unsustainable spending of the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. This increase in budget expenditure is a direct threat to all citizens, and that, I am sure, will also be seen during this debate. You say you're socially responsible to the government, but we think that this budget is equally irresponsible to all citizens, whether it's about students who don't have money, or pensioners who are promised 10%, which is already spent or not they won't be able to buy 10 percent more. The draft budget rebalance rests on unrealistic projections and an attempt to minimise the negative consequences of slowing down and halting structural reforms, delays in the EU accession process, monopolisation, inefficient and expensive states, I would like to stress this, and the political agreement reached in the formation of the government. This rebalancing is obviously the price of your coalition deal. This rebalancing is trying to cover up the negative trends that have escalated during this financial year. And you know there are things that can be covered up, but they can't be covered up. The growth of inflation under one is higher, retaining a high-level unemployment rate, relying on a purely monetary policy to run economic policy, that's all. Jelasic defends the dinar, there is no other policy. That's what the exporters get, the importers profit from. Massive public spending is trying to cover up this rebalancing perhaps unsuccessfully, perhaps not trying, it is seen, the Party's reconciliation of public spending, the catastrophicly low level of privatised income, insufficient foreign investment and the crisis in international markets. In light of the -- the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, it is based on the achieved macroeconomic and fiscal results in January-July 2008, on the revised macroeconomic and fiscal projections for 2008 and the planned economic and fiscal policy by the end of 2008. Such an argument that stands in reason is incorrect and it is actually trying to hide the basic reasons behind such a proposal to increase public spending and deficits to as many as 45 billion dinars. We can put it in different relationships, even with the social product, but when we put it with the budget deficit, it's about 10% higher. Why isn't this true? We are going in order; the rebalancing is not based on the achieved macroeconomic and fiscal results in the current year, because macroeconomic and overall economic conditions in the country are more unfavourable than they were at the beginning of the year. They were worse at the time of the draft, which was somewhere in August, September, and today when parliament's rebalancing debates are even worse. Secondly, the government itself acknowledges that a higher inflation rate has been recorded than the one projected for this period of the current year, and the annual inflation, August last year for this year, is double-digit and is 10.2%. The IMF carried out an evaluation a few days ago, made up after their visit here, that this year will certainly be two-digit inflation, about 11%. The number of employees has dropped slightly, but it should be taken into account that the decline would be much higher, that during numerous election campaigns and after the formation of such a massive state apparatus, no additional increase in the number of employees in the state sector has been made. The external trade deficit is huge and is more than 4.8 billion euros in these seven months. The net inflow of foreign investment is modest from projections and amounts to only 1.5 billion euros. The privatisation revenues are almost negligible, given the projections and the expected funds, which should partially cover the major deficit. The debt savings of the population are listed in the rebalancing proposal, according to data from the end of July, about 5.5 billion euros, but MPs should know what this amount is today and whether we can take as a macroeconomic indicator such a high and stable level of savings of the local population, I speak in the context of what happened, not chasing banks, but a crisis in the banking sector caused by recession in the world, i.e. financial instability. The reason for the rebalancing sets out the economic prospects for 2008 and it is said that the main objectives of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - are dynamic economic growth, employment growth, population standards and balanced regional development. And indeed my colleague, Marash, says, where is it? This here as a goal, perhaps for another country, but such an optimistic view of the economic perspective today, during this current crisis that we all survive, I don't think it can afford either the Government of France or the Government of Germany. What gives the government reason for such optimism? In the current government, the majority has the same party that was majority in the previous government, which proposed the budget in parliament, and this new, socially responsible government, further increases it by raising an additional 150m euros for its basic post-election coalition promise, an increase in pension. That's about four or five times more than a commission to pay to Jugorosgas. In the first seven months, unemployment has slightly increased by 0.1%, official data. What measures did the government, meanwhile, bring and prepare, that should reduce unemployment by the end of the year? What does this government projection mean that it predicts the rise of population standards? The projected inflation rate by the end of the year is single-digit and is 9.6%, and we know it won't be. (Minister, from the scene: we don't know. We don't know? We can assume it won't be. The claim was followed by the government's assessment that the dinar course towards the euro would be relatively stable, you wrote, and price control in the public sector would be carried out. It is certain for us, perhaps not for you, that this is how the projected rate is unrealistic and that the current trends, and the evaluations of relevant institutions, such as the unsaid mission of the IMF, which was recently here. It is also enough to look at the list of product purchases in the last month. All these purchases will be installed in all other products and services on the market by the end of the year, which will increase the inflation rate, and therefore we say it is unrealistic. When was this budget rebalance prepared? August and September. In the meantime, a lot has happened since then. Today, the dinar is much weaker, by almost 10%, or walking towards the euro, than in August of this year, and the decline in value would be higher without interventions from the Central Bank that reduce foreign exchange reserves. We must say that we are pleased that the government has accepted our initial proposal from the beginning of this crisis, when we asked to increase the guarantee for savings, although at the meeting of the Finance Committee your State Secretary, who said it would not be. After a few days of that, it was good, because it brought back trust in the banking system, but these unrealistic assessments can objectively lead us to trouble by the end of the year. What do you say for what you wrote that price control will be done in the public sector? Ten days ago, he picked up his gas by 60%. Yesterday, you rejected a reasonable proposal not to have any gatherings and to have the middleman abolished, because it's about the same amount. Under pressure from the government, you forced Telekom to delay the impulses, but the price of the subscription was raised. Is this a price control in the public sector? Unfortunately, I only have two sentences to mention and get back to that gas. We've got gas, we've got some kind of company that's taking money from Serbian citizens. That's exactly how much more they need to give. We've got a private company that's doing the state's job to the University. Every day we have such expenses, I won't now, because it's not time, it's going to be, according to the Rules of Procedure, to talk about public enterprises, about salaries, about the airport, but it's undeniable that the state has to tighten the belt, and this budget doesn't guarantee it. On the contrary, in a situation where everyone makes up barely an end, when people delay some investments, to change the machine that works poorly for them, not only in Serbia but also in the world, only this government wants to spend, to promise, to say that it is a government that is socially responsible or has promised something, so it will come true. I don't think it's a big shame that comrades Mrkonjic and Gilas are going to eat beans with ribs on a construction site, it's not a big cost for those comrades, but there's a lot of other expenses that are installed here, and we're now sharing in a society where there's some real money, and they're getting smaller and harder, and the others are spending more and more, and they're getting more and more rude. That's what this budget rebalance clearly showed. How does the government plan to achieve its policy and structural reform? Strengthening the private sector through the completion of privatisation of existing businesses and the creation of new businesses that will create new investments, exports and new jobs. It's like it's prescribed from some textbook that it's supposed to be, but what's to be, what are the measures to make it happen? Improving the business climate and creating a competitive environment as preconditions for new investments and changing the production structure. How? We don't have any capital, and the capital along the state pump goes out. Seven days before recognising Kosovo's independence from Montenegro, the president of your government, back-to-back, went to open that shopping centre with Serbian capital that went abroad from Serbia, and we don't have it here. They knew, apparently, what would happen in seven days, because I doubt they could do so after Kosovo's recognition by Montenegro. Current budget reserve. The government in the Rebalance proposal provides for additional funds for the budget reserve, and it cites as one of the reasons for increasing the expenditure side of the budget and its rebalancing. What is this serious state administration that cannot assess in October the amount of funds it needs by the end of the year? The government is asking parliament, of us, to grant it nearly two billion dinars for the current reserve. Excise. Is it realistic that the prime minister's announcement that excise growth will increase public revenues? Although excise duties were increased in absolute amount sometime in the spring, the government acknowledges that, at the time you admitted, it brought in a slight income on that basis, only 1.2%. Compared to expected revenues, around 100m euros will be collected by the end of the year less than excise money. In this budget rebalancing, the government is proposing a reduction in expected revenues, while the prime minister announces an increase in excise duties on motor gasoline, as the excise on motor gasoline is now close to 36 dinars per litre, and for diesel about 19 dinars. Why do you keep contrasting excise policy in relation to the environment? When oil prices rise, all normal countries reduce excise duty to keep the price of gasoline the same to protect population standards. Is that what happened with us? It's not. When the price of oil falls, as is the case now, what do we have? Excitation of excise duty. I understand that this is a need, we all have some needs, but we cannot satisfy them to the extent that it endangers others, and this budget rebalance threatens citizens who work and pay taxes. Here's the income tax for the citizens. Profits, and thus income from the income tax of citizens, increased during the seven months 2008. So, increased earnings, increased income from the state. The government argues that the increase in income on this basis is higher by about 20% compared to last year. We of the LDP believe that the government has acted irresponsibly when in the rebalancing, it envisioned an increase in income on this basis and focused that money on its otherwise irresponsible and excessive spending of our money. We think it is much better and fairer to reduce tax burdens on earnings and other similar incomes, thus creating conditions for market development and increasing employment. Get somewhere else if you want to spend that much. This is how you kill the entrepreneurial spirit and motivate those who work and those who hire. If the initial projection of the required income is achieved, then it is not necessary to punish, but to reward those who work, the few, because there will be more and more of those who spend, and less of those who do. Then at some point we'll all be MPs or employees of the state administration and no one else will be. My colleagues will go more closely on the items, just to conclude. You mentioned pulsism. I think it's a populist budget. Serbia's economic perspective threatens the ruling economic philosophy of populism, collectiveism and all-powerful states. Such philosophy is mostly represented by a complete political intellectual elite, both on the left and on the right. I listened to my predecessor, we disagreed on the budget, but from a completely different point of view. So it is no wonder that many people believe that the state is responsible for our well-being, that economic progress is not a matter of individual efforts, but of smart use of state resources, such as. The NIS, which we give, and then we go to Brussels to look for access funds. Learning by mistake has shown that the universal state is a true obstacle to a good life. (President: Time. I'm done. Does this budget rebalancing show that he's learned something from his mistakes? For LDP, it doesn't show. The unpleasant truth about Serbia is: we are a society that spends more than it produces, which has high taxes, expensive and unproductive bureaucracy, low sides and domestic investment, a completely unreformed public sector, a bad judiciary and enormous corruption as a consequence of the major state interference in the economy. We have a quasi-intellectual scientific and political elite that is unaware of the need of a Serbian society for change. The elite encourages socialist mentality, political kidnapping, and thus pushes and keeps citizens in poverty. (President: You'd like to conclude, please, speak a minute longer. Is all of this seen in this budget? Yes, it is, you can tell. This budget has nothing to do with reality, as the government's policy has to do with reality in other sectors, such as Kosovo, and therefore LDP MPs will not be able to support such wastefulness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5471	Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, and then, as representatives of their parliamentary groups, reported on the word Zoran Kasalovic, Radojko Obradović and Elvira Kovac, and then Velimir Ilic. (SRS emissaries banging hands and pencils on the bench). Gentlemen, please allow Mrs Tabakovic to speak. I'd ask you not to knock.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5473	Either the beating or the arguments, so let the citizens judge who beats the benches, who makes the arguments. Dear colleagues and citizens of Serbia, I can call the budget the emperor's new suit. At this point, the state appears as an insincere stiltist, because it makes us a model that may be modern, but simply doesn't suit us, because the state of Serbia has no money for such high fashion. Our children don't have time for this kind of deception. The basic characteristics of this budget can be disproportionate, i.e. proportionality. These proportions are expressed in the following: we spend more than we create, we have more consumption than tax revenues, we import more and we borrow more than we produce and invest. The budget grows disproportionate to the social product.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5474	Gentlemen, you are really intruding the work and I ask you to be quiet. The message is clear, you have expressed your dissatisfaction, but indeed I ask you, for the dignity and reputation of the congregation, to continue, not to take a break. Don't put me in a position to make demands.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5475	The budget grows disproportionate to the gross social product compared to business activity, to purchasing power and to standard. Between 2000 and 2005, the budget of the Republic of Serbia increased 10 times and amounted to 521 billion dinars in 2005. During that time, the social product was increased by only three, four times today. Since Mrs. Secretary wants to record the data, I'll say. The social product was $11.4 billion in 2000, and today it's about $40 billion, but that's why our budget went up a dozen times compared to the one that was in 2000. We have one of the most important structural problems of the budget in the Republic of Serbia. We have credit financing, I can say the inherited debts, but your debts are higher every year than your receipts, I deliberately say receipts, not budget revenues, because privatisation and sales are not revenues but privatisations. We have another disproportionate that's called that the revenues that go into the budget are, with a wave based on VAT from imports. As much as 48% of the budget accounts for VAT from imports, which is why I am based on the claim that we are transformed into a company that imports and that absolutely does not have adequate production where, based on exports, it could cover its imbalances in the foreign currency sense. There is another important provision called subsidy financing, which is a practice from 2000 to today. This spending on subsidies is problematic, because in every serious state there would have to be a subsidy law and criteria should be prescribed, as billions of dinars are spent from 2000 to today in financing regulations published in almost every other issue of the "Official Messenger". What Mr Dinkic often boasts, as a guillotine regulation, is just a modern experience -- to abolish the regulations of ministers and lower levels of government, and that is the guillotine of regulations. It means that laws are the basis for spending public money. Budgetary consumers grow in the Republic of Serbia's budget as weeds: agencies, organisations parallel to ministries, when they find their place in the budget, rarely come out of it. One who once joins the national faucet, the state manger, finds a thousand reasons for never coming down from that faucet and manger. There are only two exceptions. It's about the Agency for Privatisation and the Agency for Bank Rehabilitation, and now it's called Deposit Insurance, which is very skillfully derived from budgetary control, and then when they sell out state property and when they have money from the sale of state banks, then they're not under the control of either the finance minister, nor this parliament, but only under the control of the board members who are in those bodies...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5476	Fellow MPs, it seems that Mrs Tabakovic doesn't mind, but indeed everyone else has a problem with that noise.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5477	Don't, please, for my sake, intervene, everyone makes the arguments they have. These two agencies spend money without control, which you recognise Article 2, because you say that the necessary funds for the budget deficit will be settled from privatisation incomes, loans, donations, but everything with a decimal and a list of text, with no real size as much as in the coverage of the budget deficit and the financing of these items each of these individual items participates. What's interesting is, these funds, agencies and para-state organizations have the treatment of half the girl, the state when they have the funds, privately when they're avoiding control. How serious these figures are, I would say, only one reply from the finance minister, who in December of last year gave us information that 8.4 billion liquid money was charged to us as of 2007. So, no compensation from those banks, those four big banks closed in January 2002. What's problematic is that 8.4 billion dinars are actually 800 million euros, which I'm using here and here to ask, who has that kind of money, where it's located and what it's invested in. What I find particularly controversial is that you use debt and budget ratios all the time. You are not talking about the debt ratio of the state, public, private and budget, but you are talking about the debt ratio and the social product ratio all the time. However, as the budget of the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed for all international obligations, as the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the recipient, as well as the payer, economists will understand all other citizens, it is important that when borrowing and financing the budget deficit, we take care of what the possibilities of the budget are, i.e. citizens, to finance the return of credit rather than the product of the social one we run at current prices, mean inflationary. So it's not shown in value, because such high value simply puts us to sleep by making us an ideal debtor. You know, the state of Serbia in the image of the budget, or whoever runs the country, is easily in debt. That's what Mr Dinkic does when he goes and asks for loans from the World Bank, because he has a sure, we talked about an accept warrant earlier, and now we're talking about the guarantee of the bank, or the guarantee of the budget. What are all the other citizens doing? Some of them are banging. That's the only thing they can do. Some have to live a risky life of the market economy, living an uncertain life when they seek a job, taking credit, growing credit rates, growing interest rates on credit, but budget users have a life without risk, because the budget is guaranteed for commitments they take, but in the name of future generations, because every deficit that in this budget is a burden on future generations. Where did you make your savings with this budget? What I am particularly concerned about is the savings on the budget of the State Auditing Institution. You say no funds have been spent, so let's take away some of those funds and regulate what you've said exactly rightly, the government's compromise and the compromise contained in this budget. However, how sincere is the intention to show citizens that public funds are being spent transparently and that you are willing to make an account, if the State Auditing Institution, which is to control the spending of public funds on thousands of users, has no working conditions, has recently been given space, but here you are taking away their funds, not wanting in fact or having the power to fight for that state control. However, when I say that your budget rebalance is the emperor's new suit and when I say that the Emperor is a go, the Serbian Progressive Party and Parliament Club Forward, Serbia is ready to sew a new suit for the emperor. When you realize from the budget the way we've done with the amendments that you can't spend what's not being produced and not making money, when we stop funding from loans, but only from real sources, and when you give up new borrowings, the budget is balanced. More than that. There is a certain amount of funds that we, by submitting amendments, have transferred to youth, to amateur sport, to support families, to support the activities and work of national minorities, to develop the village, to support the army for its equipment and better wages, to support the diaspora through the funds intended for the Emigrant Matika, to the work of the State Auditing Institution, and not only for the salaries of auditors, but for services under contract, which need to be hired by a large number of auditors to exercise control of public funds. In this place I simply have to mention one very important thing, that a problem with the control of public funds through the State Auditing Institution probably wouldn't have had us today if we had preserved one of the few valuable and useful liquids called the Social Accounting Service, which was both professional and capable, had both personnel, and the space and ability to control the spending. However, we will not forget that the SDK, as well as the business banks, has been very deliberately and consciously destroyed, that in time it has moved into their space with the National Harm, but also some other banks, and that today we do not have a real property map and balance of the Republic of Serbia, which would have to tell us what it has sold, and what it has earned, for example, from the Post Office Savings Bank. What's he going to sell and what he's going to make? You have a situation in the budget two years ago to force your creditors to drop lawsuits that had real claims for the works done, because they shouldn't argue with the state, say who it is to beg him isn't angry with. I will conclude, this time not only the global financial crisis, but the possibilities of the Serbian state, all that is coming with the application, the early application of the Association Agreement, which will reduce our customs revenue by 150m euros annually, is a moment for Serbia and citizens to be tailoring their suit. Which suits suit those who beat here, let the citizens conclude. Thank you. (At all times the speech of MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic, SRS MPs were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5478	I apologize for not being able to provide a regular and adequate atmosphere during Mrs Tabakovic's exposure. First of all, I would like to apologize to Ms. Minister, Mrs. Stojiljkovic, all MPs, all of them, and I would like to tell you that, in accordance with Articles 105 and 106, despite the fact that it was a suggestion to impose certain sanctions, or measures, I did not do so this time, but I will do so in the future. I'll do it in the future, please. National MP Zoran Kasalovic, as representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5479	The President-in-Office, the Honored Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the defined priorities of the new government by the end of 2008, primarily in terms of speeding up the construction of infrastructure and financial incentives for strategic investment, improving the position of pensioners and socially endangered categories of the population, as well as significant support for the development of agriculture, are the basic framework for the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia and the proposed budget rebalancing for 2008, in fact, is an expression of the tendency and efforts to implement these priorities. Part of the priorities has already been formalised through an emergency pension increase regulation, a contract with Fiat, a contract with infrastructure contractors, and a regulation on conditions and how to use funds to regress repromaterials for the production of military and vegetable cultures in 2008. Measures in terms of raising the capacity of the tax administration, increased control measures to collect tax obligations, information integration of the service results. The structure of our tax revenues of the budget moves and develops in line with EU trends and practices, in which the most significant tax revenue of the budget is VAT, value added tax, with a projected level of participation of 48.5% and about 315 billion 600 million dinars, respectively. With the favourable movement of certain macroeconomic indicators that the Minister also spoke of, and the budget revenue developments for January-August 2008, all of this allows certain stability and sustainability of the fiscal system of the Republic of Serbia and currently realistically planned to increase budget revenues by 1.6% compared to the original plan, i.e. 650 billion and 174 million dinars. It is necessary, accordingly, to align expenditure, and with the 2008 budget rebalancing proposal, the government identified key budget spending priorities of 695.9 billion dinars. First of all, the 2008 budget rebalancing planned additional pension funds of 12 billion and 658 million dinars to implement the government's early pension increase regulation by 10% since October 2008. An increase in social security and social protection funds from underbillion and 500 million dinars, relating to social security benefits from the budget, above all, to provide additional funding for maternity benefits, due to an increase in the number of births, which is an excellent indicator, as well as compensation for family material security users, other people's care and assistance, fostering fees, and in the 2008 budget rebalance proposal, these funds are now affecting around 9.2% of total expenditures and amounting to 68 billion and 119 million dinars. In this way, the government of the Republic of Serbia proves that it is socially responsible and ready to take care of each citizen of the Serbian state, as well as to significantly improve the status and standards of pensioners in the coming period, many of which have been hit by long-standing and insufficient concerns and the lack of understanding of society for their material position and social status. For agricultural subsidies, additional resources amounting to a total of 7 billion dinars have been planned in order to implement the rules already laid down in this area, and above all for the regression of repromaterials, for the production of wartime and vegetable crops in 2008, support for non-communicated agricultural holdings, genetic improvement of dairy livestock, regression of dairy livestock, animal insurance, crops and fruits, as well as in the area of animal health and animal food safety. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that agriculture is a strategically important business branch, and also the largest development potential of the Republic of Serbia in the future. Certainly, through the allocation of additional funds, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has clearly defined itself in this regard, and in the future it wants to raise the level of competitiveness and efficiency of the agricultural sector, provide quality and safe food intended for domestic consumption and exports, and preserves the environment from the adverse impacts of agricultural technological processes, and thus provides, in the best possible way, full support for sustainable rural development and balanced regional development of the Republic of Serbia. For the realisation of traffic projects of national importance, and the tours around Belgrade, the Dobanovci-Bubanj stream, and the construction of highways on Nis-Dimitrovgrad and Leskovac-Presevo shares, are planned by a budget rebalancing proposal for 2008 of two billion and 300 million dinars, as well as additional funds in the amount of billions and 970 million dinars for another project of national importance, which is the realisation of a joint investment agreement with Fiat, and the funds are allocated to the name of the founding role. These projects and the allocation of additional funds confirm the government's determination to launch long-awaited capital projects, which will certainly ensure employment growth and population standards and create preconditions for dynamic economic growth. Of course, in order for the planned priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the objectives to be fully achieved, there will be challenges, and above all, increased control of expenditure will be needed in the coming period, as well as a clear course towards changing the structure of public spending towards greater participation of public investments, such as Corridor 10. In this way, a potential effect on general price increases would surely be suspended. Certainly preparedness to cover the increased budget deficit from the planned 40.95 to 45.78 billion dinars from two real sources, and accumulated privatisation revenues from previous years and accumulated surplus from the pension fund of independent actions, further excludes such possibility and scenario, and I am sure that this is the choice and determination of the restoring ministry and government. Of course, limited resources are available, real resources are provided for by this 2008 rebalance of the Republic of Serbia budget, and can be defined in a different way than in this proposal, in particular, by respecting the indisputable fact that the needs are much greater than the possibilities of available real resources. However, given that this proposal for the 2008 budget rebalances the priorities that I spoke about, which the SPS-JS MPs consider the most important and sees as the realisation of their pre-election promises to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are confident that this proposal for the 2008 budget is good and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5480	I thank you, the word is Radojko Obradovic, authorised in front of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5481	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the long announced budget rebalancing is finally ahead of us. It's a little paradoxical, because under the Budgetary System Act in the next ten days, on November 1st, the budget that we need to adopt on November 15th should appear, so in less than a month we will adopt the 2009 budget, but there are always specific circumstances in Serbia that have some unusual conditions. Why the budget rebalance today, as Mrs Dragutinovic said? Well, there are two answers to this question, one given by Mrs Dragutinovic, and the other by her State Secretary, Mr Ilic. Mrs Dragutinovic said the reason for the rebalancing is a new methodology and we welcome it anyway. And on a very watched show, Mr. Ilic said the budget rebalance is in the Assembly because the government consists of a large number of parties, just like he said in "The Imprint of the Week". The government consists of a large number of parties, there are a lot of small parties, they fear the elections and they want to meet and fulfill all pre-election promises in the first year. This is a political budget that represents the fulfillment of pre-election promises. The show has been replayed several times, you can check to see if that's the case. Of course, we always have a dilemma in the Serbian Parliament whether the glass is full or empty. It's important to us here that the glass has water, and whether it's full or empty depends on the angle from which we look at a particular problem. 15 days ago, the entire opposition was practically accused of spreading panic. We have indicated that there is a crisis in the financial sector, that this crisis will, by means of a method of combined courts, be more or less poured into Serbia, that we do not know what these effects are, but in any case, that they will feel it here. The Finance Committee included the governor and was also Secretary of State Ilic. They told us you couldn't, you had other obligations. We had a conversation with them. I assume you've been informed of all this. We are told that three thousand euros, the amount of deposit provided under our law, absolutely covers and guarantees the stability of the system, covers 90% of the parties and that there is no need to increase the guarantee deposit. When we proposed the law, the DSS and our parliamentary club, under which we raise the deposit to 20,000 euros, we were accused of demagogy, of pulsism, of spreading further panic and confusion. Ten days later, the government decides to increase the deposit to 50,000 and possibly to 100,000 euros. Is the glass full or is the glass empty? There's a tape recorder, it can be checked, so we'll see what's going on. So much for the glass. We will analyse individual government policies in the part of the principle debate and in the discussion on amendments. I will try to answer the question whether this budget is real, regardless of what your secretary of state has told us and how likely this budget is to be fulfilled. In your presentation, it's a little wider on the government's website than you said here, this version, in any case, says that the basic assumptions for the implementation of this budget are to accelerate reforms, continue European integration, fiscal and monetary policy and increase the investment rate to 25 to 27 percent of gross social product or eight to 10 billion euros. These are the assumptions that this policy is being fulfilled. First, according to all the surveys and all the reports by international institutions, Serbia's credit rating is dropping. The World Bank said in its 2009 business report that Serbia holds 94th place, which is three places worse than last year, 12 places worse than in 2005. The World Bank said in a management report that the government of the Republic of Serbia's efficiency has been significantly reduced. Canada's Fraser Institute says Serbia takes 98th place in the region under business conditions and in the region only Bosnia and Herzegovina is worse. For example, Albania ranks 65th, Bulgaria at 68th. "Transparency International" says Serbia shares 85th place on their report. For example, Romania ranks 70th, Macedonia is 72nd. As for investments, which are a condition for meeting this economic policy, they will be more than twice as much this year as you are designing. Twice as much investment as it takes to implement a project like this, only 12.3% of the gross social product, which is significantly less than last year, when it was 17%, and twice as much as you assume for realisation. Serbia's balance of payments has deteriorated significantly. This year we spend 19% of gross social product more than we produce. According to the IMF, in its report, 500 billion dinars are spent more than is being made in Serbia. How do we make up for it? Through privatization, borrowing, and foreign credits. Many of our people work in different countries and bring that money to Serbia. Total external debt amounts to 60% of gross social product and increases year-on-year. According to the Memorandum before us, the external debt this year is $20.8 billion, in 2009, 24.4, 2010 27.8 and the 2011 projection is 31.1%. Over the next three years, external debt will increase by $11 billion, and the Memorandum clearly says that the long-term credit rating, on page 75, is a bb minus and will remain so long-term. Public expenditures are 18.7% higher than in the same period of the previous year. There are significant increases and an intrinsic growth of subsidies, recapitalisation, loan, transfer, supply of goods, non-selective investment in buildings and construction facilities. It's a little unusual since you're going with the rebalancing right in front of the budget, but it was a good thing we got the data on budget implementation. You said at first that we had a happy environment, you called it -- sudden happiness, since this year we have 10 and a half billion more resources than planned. That sudden happiness is called customs, because out of those 10 and a half billion nine are customs. What does customs mean? That means we're importing incredible quantities of goods and that deficit is getting bigger and bigger. I'm not sure if you're importing huge quantities of goods, that's sudden happiness, I'd call it something different. In any case, public spending is getting much lower, rather than public spending is increasing, and the fiscal deficit is increasing more and more. In this budget and the Memorandum, there is no record of how this and this budget will affect basic parameters, price growth, wage policy, economic growth, new investment, poverty reduction, social protection, state aid and all other important macroeconomic parameters. Some concrete items, we will discuss this in the amendment debate, but it is a very interesting programme part of the budget and it is said that the NIP will be in the programme section of the budget. There is no Ministry of Economy and Regional Development in the programme work, but has the Ministry of Faith and the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government. It's a bit unusual that the programming part of the budget is made up of the Ministry of Religion, and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is not, but well, it's a matter of proposing. In the most important document with the budget, which represents government policy, which is the Memorandum of Economic Policy, by just one year's increase, i.e. the share in the expenditure of the gross social product is 6%, the 2007 Memorandum of Understanding 39.5, the May 2008 Memorandum is 43.3, and now it is 45.4. A significant increase in consumption. If all that is promised is fulfilled, we will be even worse. I commend the Memorandum which is very fair, very efficient and very precise. He talks about this budget more than any of us can say. On page 56 in chapter - fiscal risk, you say this: populist economic policy. You call your policy populist. There's nothing to add. You say this: serious fiscal risk is the possibility of continuing to implement populist economic policies. You're not saying it might be run, you're saying that populist economic policy will continue. I have nothing to add to this. This isn't a budget we can support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5482	According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word for Miss Natas Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5483	Madam President, someone's forgotten something here, I think it's a paper towel, when it goes to the market, it's probably going for the road. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister, I am reporting to use your presence as members of 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, because a memo came in, actually a copy that was forwarded to you. It is a letter from the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Ministry of Tourism, and the Property Directorate, the Institute for the Protection of Monuments and Culture, directed by Dr Radosav Svabic, president of the municipality of Arangelovac. The "Old Building" hotel is one of the monuments of culture, one of the most important in Šumadia, but certainly also in Serbia. Anyone who's ever come to the Arangelovac knows it's a symbol of this city and for years, the Aryans have watched this symbol of their city and the monument of culture collapse. The municipality is unable to solve this problem because the state's concern over such facilities is necessary. We know that only with the great engagement of the Raško-Zorzen diocese and the people of goodwill is the reconstruction of our sanctity in KIM, thanks above all to the overly consecrated bishop Artemia and monasticism, the clergy, but when it comes to these things, which are still in several such drastic examples in Serbia, we must or state, or you must tell us that you do not want to protect our cultural and historical monuments, to react as soon as possible. Today is October 24th and the fact that this extension of the miholi flight primarily pleases the citizens of Serbia, who will have shocking gas bills, and for electricity and at all for the heating of the entire season, will barely survive, but imagine, Madam Minister, that the road will lead you there, and you as finance minister, I suppose, should tour more cities in Serbia. Otherwise, with regard to the business of taking over the tax administration by the municipality of Arangelovac, it is an insightal example of the municipality that has done so in the best possible way. The fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not worry, not only this but also the previous one, as well as the ones before that, about this so important problem, is enough about us being a nation that, in every place, in the right sense of the word, is a disgrace. I am telling you this because the meeting of the Lord is near, and also the day of the jubilee of the municipality of Arangelovac next year and because of the fact, and I am asking for the answer, whether and when, on the basis of this request, you will now be given this photocopy, but first of all, they have addressed you and listed your ministry as one, a working meeting which is the president of the municipality of Dr Radosav Svabic, as a responsible man, a Serbian radical, asking that this problem be solved as soon as possible, as well as our coalition partners from New Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia in that city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5484	Mr. Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have received one piece of information and one letter from fellow citizens of Panchev asking a question, which belongs to your profession, and I am speaking to you as an expert in the hope that you will answer the Panchevs on one question. What is the health care of the people of Pancheva municipality in the light of bureaucratic discards? That's what Vladimir Dejanovic, called Dandi, says, with a number of citizens from Panchev. We can't believe that the fate of the Pančevs is decided by inhumans, who make the sick seriously travel for 200 km, several times a month, for specialist examinations and therapy, radiation and others. So far, we have been able to do this in Belgrade, at a distance of 20 km, now the health bureaucracy, the republican and the provinceal, makes us citizens, both in winter, and in size and in heat, have to travel to show healthcare to patients of Pancheva in Novi Sad, Sremska Kamenica, I say at a distance of up to 200 km, when you go in one and in the return path. The new Sad, they say, robbed and built while the Pančevs, in addition to their huge production income, remained a palanka, because at this moment the health mafia and the health bureaucracy do not respect them and give them any faith. So the citizens of Pancheva must go to Novi Sad, not to Belgrade, and I must remind you that Panchevo was part of the city of Belgrade and there was an area of the city of Belgrade. We are asking and asking for an explanation from the Minister of Health - why are citizens and patients of Panchev being punished, and it is known that all the serious diseases are suffering from the citizens of Panchev? They suffer from the most severe diseases, cancers and others caused and caused by a known industrial South Zone by the Refinery, Azotara and Petrochemy. Panchev doctors are struggling to help, but helplessly and unsuccessfully, to allow our citizens to be treated in Belgrade. I ask the Minister of Health if the Republic Health Ministry will take some steps that the citizens of Panchev can finally exercise their rights in their capital, 15 km away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5486	The Republic Health Insurance Office and the Minister of Health will be forwarded to you and waiting for an answer. Mrs. Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5487	Dear Madam Minister, Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM MPs will support the 2008 budget rebalance in the proposed form since we are all aware that it is the way in which the adoption and expenditure of the budget is coordinated. I would point out, however, that at the end of last year, when the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia was passed for 2008, the MPs of the SVM and the Parliamentary Club of Minorities had more amendments, and that they remained faithful to their principles. Even now, we are not giving up our demands and we expect that our demands will be respected in the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the coming year 2009. Currently, during a period of unremembered financial crisis in the world, we believe the proposed rebalancing is still too wasteful. The 2008 Budget Rebalance proposal envisions a total revenue of 650.17 billion and expenditures of 695.95 billion dinars, with the deficit increased by around 4.8 billion dinars. In view of the maintenance, a more accurate non-infringement of the country's stable political situation, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget has the support of the Minority Parliament Club. We are aware that, after the entry into force of the new Ministry Act, it was necessary to provide conditions for the smooth execution of jobs, expenditures, expenditures, more precisely, among all direct beneficiaries of budget funds, and we know that some have seen changes in competences and there have been newly educated ministries. As we all know very well, it has ceased with the work of the Service for Human and Minority Rights, whose responsibilities have been taken over by the newly formed Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, which, certainly, my party, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, as well as the entire Parliamentary Group of Minorities to which I belong, welcomes. The Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, among other things, took over competences in the area of national minority members and the keeping of registers of national councils of national minorities, for which funds under the Law on the Budget of Serbia for 2008 were established in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. For the sake of reminders, the powers of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights are among other things: general issues concerning the position of members of national minorities, the keeping of the register of national councils of national minorities, and the selection of these councils, the protection and improvement of human and minority rights, the making of rules on the same these human and minority rights, the position of all members of national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the achievement of all minority rights, the achievement of the links of national minorities with the countries of origin, the position and exercise of the competence of the national councils of national minorities mentioned. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, unfortunately for us, is not exactly specific items to finance the work of national councils of national minorities. Therefore, MPs of the Minority Club have submitted an amendment that we will discuss in more detail in the discussion of details. I would just like to point out now that we are proposing only this amendment to fund national councils, and this draft amending and supplementing law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia, to establish in the same way as already done in the 2008 Budget Law. We are aware that the Government's Emergency Retirement Regulation found that pensions increased by 10%, and therefore, on the basis of that increase and the regular harmonisation of these pensions, additional funding of 12.7 billion dinars for pensions is needed. The government therefore fulfils its pre-election promises, which is certainly the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians as a positive one, but on the other hand we are showing our concern that the fulfillment of our country's strong pre-election promises will take place at the heart of our country's financial stability. The government really should be worried about the big budget deficit. An even bigger budget deficit could not be covered, given that the expected revenues from privatisation are becoming smaller, more modest, and that the end, mentioned earlier, of an unremembered financial crisis in the world still cannot be seen. By the end of 2008, additional funding needs to be provided, with 7 billion dinars, for subsidies in agriculture. This is necessary, among other things, because of the expansion of the circle of users and legal persons, and the surprisingly increased number of registered agricultural holdings this year. The minority parliamentary club supports transfers from the Republika Srpska budget that finance active employment policies, self-employment programmes, severance programmes to work, training and retraining programmes. Also, we find it very positive that this proposal increases the funds to provide additional funding for maternity benefits, compensation to the family's material security users, other people's care and assistance, foster care fees, etc. However, most of the funding from the Republic's budget is spent, i.e. providing for the salaries of teachers in education. This law would also provide financial resources to honour signed protocols concluded between the government and representative education unions. I would just like to remind all of you respected citizens that, in fact, the main objectives of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - are dynamic economic growth, employment growth and population standards and more uniform regional development. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians supports the improvement of the business climate and the creation of a competitive environment, as we know that this is a prerequisite for attracting investment, which would allow an increase in exports in the coming period, thereby reducing the external trade deficit and unemployment in Serbia, which is a burning problem. To sum up, the adoption of amendments and amendments to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008 is necessary for the smooth functioning of newly established state bodies, for the provision of funds for the extraordinary increase in pensions in accordance with the Government's Emergency Retirement Regulation, for the payment of subsidies in agriculture, as well as for the execution of any other expenditure for which additional funding is required this year. People's MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and Parliament Club, I stress, do not give up their demands on the issue of improving the position of members of national minorities and decentralisation, and we all expect that these demands will be respected in the budget law for the coming year 2009. I would like to give just one concrete example of our amendments last year. We all feel it is necessary to finance student and student homes whose founder is not a state, but also their funding is from the state register. I would mention just a few of them, for example, that's the school home of Emmaus in Mužlja, I live in Mihajlov, which is only 20 kilometers from Mužlje, and I've been to that dormitories, or dormitories, several times. There are high school students from South Banat, who have the opportunity to learn in secondary schools in their native language, only here in Zrenjanin, as in central Banat. The second home is the House of Girls in Zrenjanin, which is just 12 kilometers from my village, and I've been there several times. Many young girls are happy to receive accommodations in that home. Furthermore, the school home "Laslo Rehap" in Subotica and the study home "Opaca" in Novi Sad. I would like to inform all of you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the Republic of Serbia, in addition to institutions of student and student standards whose founders are either the Republic or the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, there are several such student or student homes, and so far they are maintained by traditional religious communities or non-governmental minority organisations, and they continue to receive no funding from state sources. So they're getting zero funding from the state register. The Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, however, will support the 2008 budget rebalance, in hopes that the new government of the Republic of Serbia will remain of primary importance and support a stable political situation in the country that is needed for further economic development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5488	Thank you. The word is made by the president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Mr Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5489	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I am very sorry that the ruling coalition is a little interested in budget rebalancing, which we are talking about today, and I am extremely sorry that this budget rebalance didn't happen much earlier, because it would have had some effect. I can't understand that the ministries that filled 100 days of work didn't have a dinar of funds, because the newly formed ministries, how they could function. I want to ask a few questions that are extremely important. I can't understand that someone 15 days before winter, when it starts snowing, invests in agriculture. And someone before the end of the construction season talks about big investment in infrastructure, construction. Especially this one for agriculture is a very interesting story to me. Are we normal, making rebalancing, investing in agriculture on the eve of the new year? Also in the infrastructure, in the construction of roads, a bypass that was to be opened on September 1st and delayed by September 15th. I don't know why we're investing in something that opens up in the other day. It was said to open a rate on November 10th. So, we're giving out funds for something that's been spent for a long time, and now we need to be some kind of mask to cover it all up here, to bring it together, to perfect it, and to keep everyone clean in this whole story. Do you realize what kind of agriculture we're talking about? You know the bag of artificial fertilizer is 3,000 dinars. It's two acres of forest and sea land. What are we talking about? What kind of agriculture are we developing? You can see that the price of cabbage was a large, two dinar ransom. How can a peasant survive? Remember that, Madam Minister, in the spring, when the set begins, when agricultural works begin. Remember now and think about the next agriculture budget. The price of milk for 12 dinars has been reduced. How can the peasants survive? What are we talking about now? These huge resources that separate themselves for infrastructure, do you know, gentlemen, all that's been set aside, two billion, that's seven kilometers of highway of one tape, just seven kilometers in Serbia. It's been raised to big bells, it's been rebalancing to do. Don't embarrass yourself, let's talk about seven kilometers of making, invest in big projects. Gentlemen of Parliament, when I was Minister of Capital Investments, I had five employees in my cabinet. The cabinet, or ministry, has now been broken into five ministries. Now I see here, some vice presidents have 41 employees. It's an administration. Krkobic will bring all pensioners to the government now, and his son has built a larger cabinet than certain municipalities. Who's going to finance it, in what way? What are you offering us? We can't invest money just for the administration, and we can fake ourselves here for some big work, for some big projects. In the ministry that I once ran, the then finance minister, Mr Dinkic, was extremely pleased with me, he said -- Mobtel, Mr Minister, will sell himself, and everything goes into the roads and corridors. For Mobtel, we took a billion and 600 million euros, and then we came and told him to sell the third license, another 300 million, there'd be jobs for all corridors, a billion and 900 million we'd have in total for Corridor 10. That's true. Then they came and said -- and "the slave houses" 360m euros, all in corridors. It's all sold out, nothing from Corridor, 200 million dinars have been allocated, it hasn't been expropriated for three or four kilometers, and that's why this hasn't been done to Presevo, and yet that expropriation hasn't been done, it hasn't been paid, it hasn't been paid. The assets of Mobtel, the Slave Houses and the assets of the third operator, some Mr. Schlaff, I have no idea what happened, they've been spent, and the corridors haven't been built. When someone asks today - what wasn't done? For the record, it wasn't done because there was no money, because the funds that were agreed to go to Corridor 10 were inexplicably missing. The election campaign began in January, and those funds were spent on the campaign, and this great victory by pro-European forces and the big presidential victory. And, uh, ate a cat. The large funds were overrun in Vojvodina, so Pajtic was there making a good result, without feedback as well as how they were spent. So, please ask us, as serious people, where are the funds from Mobtel, the Slave Houses and the third operator? That's over two billion and 160m euros spent, and they're nowhere to be found. We're making rebalancing now. It's nice that the pensioners were given, but we had one proposal here not to go linear increases, but the first lowest pensions to raise to one threshold, not to get 10%, one more pension, which has 80-90,000 pensions, and the one who has seven-eight thousand will get 700 dinars. We asked to get to one threshold, for example. 15,000, they raise their pensions, and then the rest of them grow other pensions. That was our request, which was completely justified. However, there has been a linear increase. But our poor pensioners didn't even know what was ahead of them. Well, this gas collection is 60%, it's for individual households, it's immoral. That's why any serious government should fall. The prime minister had to resign immediately. This is where we listen to Jugorosgas, the mob. He's got mobs. A man comes out of the ruling coalition and says: The mafia is at the top of the government, the gas mob. He gets something, and then he says, "No more mobs at the top of the government than today, "he changed his mind the next day." We rejoiced - the treasure of us, here is the man of the ruling coalition to cast it out, and we shall define it all. Please, we have a very serious conversation. So let's not talk about raising impulses and all the other increases that will come next year. Now that it's warm season, when the people freeze and the masses of people don't have the dinars to survive, to school their students, what's going on? We're talking big investments in agriculture. We're not a normal world, we've mixed everything up. Please, Madam Minister, settle this in the Government. Agriculture's in the spring, if you didn't know. That's what you're thinking. Winter for spring. Infrastructure, in winter, project preparation, everything, in spring, construction works begin, and now they end. Understand, all major projects are done by credit lines in Serbia, and Gazela, and the Pancheva Bridge, and the Temerina loop, and the Batajni loop, and Kokin Brod, and Nova Varoš and Banatski highway, everything is done by credit lines. Where's the privatisation money and the NIP that was supposed to bring the infrastructure? We, selling large and profitable companies, such as brewers, cementers and others, spent money in budget deficits and for various campaigns to court the people, with various social budgets, without a development budget, and we came into the situation that we have two or three more companies to sell, that's Telekom, EPS, what it's offered, and when it's spent, we're naked as a gun, and with large debts, over 29 billion dollars. Gentlemen, the situation is very alarming and we don't need to talk this unseriously. I was disappointed when I listened to Mrs Dragutinovic, who euphorically said that everything was fine. Here's some rebalancing, let's add something else to the farm. I was thrilled. Is this normal, what we meet every day in our ordinary lives? It is hard to live in Serbia, very hard to live in, and it should be taken care of. A little more social and all that's needed. Let us not boast of a balanced regional development. Half of Serbia's water to drink. Gentlemen, you remember this summer, we didn't have to water the population. She was in the accumulation program. What's the matter, where's the money, what wasn't done? Nothing's been touched. Next year we'll have a water shortage. Basically from a balanced regional development, let's not cover certain parts of Serbia in marble, and other parts do not have drinking water. So, the expensive administration, the expensive state, we have to worry about that. Try to contain the import lobby. The import lobby is ruining Serbia and even more so with these new measures you're proposing, you're intruding it to work. Then the Serbian economy will end and we won't have anything else. What can we take out now? Almost nothing. So please, we have to be very serious. We know that this rebalance is to pay some debts and we know that you will now raise credit to pay and debts from 15-20 years ago to travellers -- 10 billion, and five more, and five more, and those 20 billion will rise after this rebalance and still owe the additional state. We cannot fulfill all the wishes of these small parties, coalition partners, great princes from certain cities that come here and seek huge funds. Big resources are needed, and we have nothing to do with it. Serbia is struggling to survive, and so I ask you to take this seriously and see how this winter can survive. I didn't see it here in the budget. We invest in something that's been past the season, and where the heating season is coming now, that's where we bury the citizens, with impulses and all that's necessary. So please be serious, gentlemen of the ruling coalition. It's not an easy situation, and I'm responsible for that. We owe a lot, we promise a lot, we don't want to make a concession, we want credit lines, we want highways from the budget. It's nothing, it's an empty story. Once again, NS MPs can't vote for this rebalancing, because this is something that's been spent and you just came to us to legalize it for you and to tell you: well, okay, you're ours, you've spent, we're moving on. Have a very serious budget prepared, you will have a difficult and heated debate in parliament here. Prepare the budget seriously for next year and release those items where the large figures are camouflaged, rather than define each item, so that we know exactly, clearly and loudly what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5490	The word has a finance minister, Dr. Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5491	I would take this opportunity and look back on a number of questions, but first Mr. Ilic. He was always my inspiration. Mr. Ilic, thank you for reminding me that the agricultural and construction season is over. I really didn't notice that. I just want to remind you that the flows of goods and money are mostly not at the same time. So the pay isn't taken at the same time as the delivery of work, it's after. So there are always reasonable deadlines. As for whether or not I've disappointed you, I must admit I'm disappointed in you, too. If after three months I need to know more than you've spent in the government for three years minimum, and maybe more, where the money from the companies that are privatized and the licenses that were sold at the time you were minister, then I don't know who should be more disappointed. You should know better than that. The fact is that huge inflows from privatisation have been realised, but also to remind you that huge debts in the past have arisen and that all these debts have been paid back by all governments since 2000, including debts towards so-called. old foreign savings. Also, there are debts from various public enterprises, for example, JP Roads, so while you were Minister, Mr Ilic, the privatisation revenues were used to pay some commitments to JP Roads. An expensive state administration is, I'm not slow, and I never said it was cheap, but I want to remind you that from 2006 to 2008, participation of public spending in the social product is the same. So the same expensive state administration was also in the government of which you were a member. Of course, I have answers to other questions that have been asked. I was thinking whether to wait for the end or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5492	Mr. Krasic, please allow the minister to speak. Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5493	As for the size of public expenditure, let me repeat once again that I never claimed they were low, but I would also rather talk about numbers. When someone says we're running a populist policy and it doesn't document it by the number of what's populist, and you know exactly what it is, then that someone only represents a man with an opinion, and an opinion can often be wrong. So public spending isn't controversial, it's high, but it's not even the emperor's new suit. The Emperor is not naked yet, because the excess expenditure on income is covered by real resources. Credits are a real source of income, especially when new borrowing is less than the repayment of old debts. When your new debt is less than your payment, your debt actually decreases. As I said, the participation of public spending in this country's social product is identical between 2006 and 2008. As for the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is not good to compare 2000 and 2008. Why? We may have forgotten that few of our countries are different. In 2008, either 2007 or 2006, the budget of the Republic of Serbia has some new powers that previously had the budget of the former SRJ. So there was a federal budget and a republican budget. Today, the Republic budget, in fact, took over diplomacy, the military, everything that once supported the federal budget. Also, when we talk about how wasteful the budget is, I'd like to remind you, it's very easy to calculate, and I'm ready to show the calculations and just confront the numbers, not the numbers without numbers. If the budget of the Republic of Serbia is 30% of the social product, 80% of these expenditures, which is 24%, are legally determined obligations. So, the Law on public officials' salaries determines salaries in education, health care, public administration, no more or less, we apply the law and we get such profits. The Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act determines how pensions adapt. So it's a legal obligation. Different social contributions from the budget: children's allowances, different aids, material family security, these are legal obligations. So I won't accept that 24% is something that's wasteful. It can be wasteful what's left, and that's about 6% of the social product. Let me remind you, these 6% are distributed to subsidies. I haven't heard from almost any MPs that he asked for fewer subsidies, most of them all asking for more. Even Mr. Bhuha talks about giving agriculture three times as much subsidies as they are given, and he says "sources - get along, I don't care". Standard parliamentary democracy implies that when you ask for something to increase, you must find a source from where. Prove the number and then we can talk. I don't suppose you're a man of opinion, that you can show it. I have to remind you that I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a judge, I'm not a prosecutor. You can talk to me about some irregularities, and overrated and underestimated budgets, revenues and expenditures, and corruption is simply not a real address. The budget procedure, this is a small answer to the question asked, or the finding of Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, begins by the Ministry of Finance asking individual beneficiaries of the budgets what they think they need. The State Audit Agency has reduced its own resources. Do you really think the finance ministry was supposed to raise them on its own? I would also like to say to Mr Zoran Ostojic that the fact that he will not vote for this budget is also not based on theoretical knowledge when it comes to fiscal policy. Simple, the deficit is not excessive. There's a golden rule. I don't want to talk to you about the golden rule, but there's a textbook in every fiscal economy. All the rules are respected. Now you can say, I don't care about the rules, I want to make a new theory. Maybe when you make a new textbook, it'll be a rule for me, so far I think I'm doing good until I'm wrong about the rules of the profession. Mr. Marash was skillfully using slides, mixing what I said about 2008 and 2009. If we really wanted to see what I really wanted to say, and if we were to compare what the leaders of certain parties in the campaign promised and what they finally got with the new, or the rebalancing, you would see that this is how he gave up something. So the budget is a compromise. Also, I stand behind every word I've said about the 2009 budget. He won't be able to do it at the same time. Some projects we'll have to give up, some temporarily, others permanently. It's simple, it's a fact. Otherwise, the Republic of Serbia's budget was adopted by the government on October 2nd. That means it was built in September or September. The assumptions on which this budget is based are not unrealistic, because I am sure that the revenues will be realised in the way that it is designed, and my experience tells me, by comparing the plan or the budget and what really happens in life, that the expenditures are always smaller, what really happens in life, than what the budget or budget rebalance shows. And also, if only we had such a wasteful budget, that this is the only way we spend it, as I heard at the vice governor's position at the time, that only with us is the currency siphoning, it's just not true. It's enough to go to any finance ministry site and see that 70% of the countries, and 90% of the countries in the region, have a deficit greater than this. Just to remind you, if there's a recession on the door and the recession is ticking, then the answer to the responsible macroeconomic policy is an expansion budget. It's a cure for that disease. Out of the O.R.: no cure. I see we're still alive, listening to different forecasts. I'd really like to share a few views with you. Ever since I started doing economics, I've listened to different things, so to speak, black forecasts, 35 percent of our people, say, live below the poverty line. If 35% of the people lived below, they wouldn't live but would be in the New Cemetery. It's just not true. I say, let's look objectively. I'm not saying we live well. [[Sagar.]] There are relevant studies that talk about how poor people are. The responsible state is really targeting... (President: Please allow the minister to complete her presentation, please. I'll give you a warning, Mr. MP. I don't know about Natalie, I have two kids and it's an extended reproduction. In the end, there were a lot of questions about the financial crisis. That was, practically, before my exposé, so if you'll just let me have a quick word with them. So it's undeniable that there's a global financial crisis on stage. Since our banking sector, according to all indicators that are relevant and which are seen, is not in the problem, could not be expected any direct consequences. So, only indirect in terms of a minor inflow of capital. What the Republic of Serbia did looked at and realized that all EU countries are practically having a coordinated action. So we're in this together, so we're either going to go down together or we're going down, like Trish said, or we're going to win together. In that sense, we felt that what the EU countries are doing and not only the EU countries but also those countries that are not but they hope that one day they will be there, to do the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why she changed the laws the way they changed, so she increased the amount of the secured deposit from 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros. I must tell you that before this financial crisis, the bill had already been passed, otherwise it was thought to increase the secured deposit to 20,000 euros. This crisis has made us behave alike to all other countries. All EU countries, plus all countries... (From the O.R.: Which country? I know exactly which countries all have increased. Minimum 50,000, 100,000. (From O.R.: Secured seven times. No, no, no, We're talking about the amount. There's a reason why. Because saving from one country would be exported to another. That's why they leveled the volume of the secured deposit. I don't know how clear it is for people. The financial system in general isn't going down. A single bank can be in trouble, not a financial system in general. (From the O.R.: Ours failed in 2000. ) People received their foreign savings and will be paid by 2016. So, 50,000 euros is real, especially for the strength of our financial sector. Also, I need to tell you that many other measures have been taken that will make this completely realistic. So what is most often criticised in NB policy is a high mandatory reserve on foreign exchange savings. In addition to a high minimum reserve, there was a Deposit Insurance Fund. We've got double protection. This is real. This is according to the directives. I agree that we are much less developed, so we save much less than the EU. Maybe we could have secured the deposits up to 20,000 euros. Just to remind you that means by the deposit, by the bank. That means, if the savings have multiple parties in several different banks, it's almost completely safe. The financial system in general does not fail, the individual bank may be in trouble temporarily. So it must have a cover. I think I've covered all the issues, except perhaps for the budget reserve, that's what Mr Ostojić has asked, and the fact is that the budget reserve is almost two billion dinars, one billion and 700, to be exact. Mr Ostojic wonders how the finance ministry predicts this when there is, by the end of the year, so little remains, and so much funding is needed. First thing, this year has taught us all what shocks mean. This year there was an oil shock, or a big tsunami, kid, I don't know how to say it. So the prices went from 70 to 130, so they came back again. The global financial crisis. We live in a time of uncertainty, in conditions of uncertainty. You can't predict with certainty a single digit. Unfortunately, this isn't math, this is economics. What happens eventually depends on the resultant behavior of all economic actors.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5494	I thank Mrs. Minister. First Zoran Krasic by the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Ilic. But first Zoran Krasic by the Rules of Procedure, then you, Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5495	Dear Madam Minister, I am delighted to hear your replicas and your comments and I have seen that you are a top economic expert, and especially that you deserve the safe place, when you said that Serbia lives well, that there are no poor. But no wonder, the previous finance minister brought in paper that the best finance minister in the world, Mr Dinkic. I don't know if you remember that. He was the world's best finance minister, and we fell clear on our financial market. So, I'd just like to remind you that you promised a better life in the campaign, promised Europe, promised investment, promised here Boing, Mercedes, Folkswagen, Fiyat, highways, six billion right now, and I'm not counting any more, and none of that. Here, the construction season is over. He was with himself a minister of not three, and more, four and a half years, but you're a minister this year. I'd just like to remind you, your predecessor is in the privatization, which I've quoted here, asked to sell companies and invest in corridors in 2008. Immediately afterwards, the presidential elections were called, so the parliamentary elections, on 11 May, you won the elections, won and that money was not used, unless they were spent in your very expensive campaign, because yours was then the finance minister and guardian of the state treasure. Now, the treasure is gone, the treasure is gone. Therefore, you must explain it to us. Don't talk about roads, about debts. I remember that debt on that unfortunate Feketiæ, which the late Slobodan Milosevic did 20 years ago, was paid two and a half billion with interest, and that was something small, but it came to nothing. You, or your predecessors, have allowed from the finance to form the Public Enterprise Roads of Serbia, and to transfer from the budget user of the Directorate 10 billion debt and five billion after the government's decision, that is 15 billion, and make up for those 15 billion by the credit line for which the Government will grant guarantees. Of course, Minister Cvetkovic, the current prime minister said it was wrong, it can't now, it has to wait a little while, it has to go through rebalancing and all that's been happening right now. Therefore, these debts were artificially made because they were not allowed for election campaigns, financing (Minister Cvetkovic and Minister Dinkic) did not allow VAT to be charged on toll, we also charged to users, and the roads had to pay VAT on all road investments. So, you clear that up in finance and these debts are artificially made, otherwise no toll companies would have those debts. Madam Minister, get down to the ground, walk in Serbia, we'll take you for a walk, here's some serious MPs, to meet the people, to get to know the agriculture, to start to distinguish the cow from the bull, to start thinking about farming properly, to know that the weight of lamb meat is now 130 dinars, whether it can be covered, that the milk is 22 dinars, and the heifer you gave from the Ministry of Agriculture to the peasants came out to 2,300 euros. How someone would pay it with a price, and then it was guaranteed a price with subsidies of 34 dinars per litre of milk, and now it's been taken off to 22 here for almost a year. So it's not working, and you have to coordinate, otherwise we all fall apart. Remember, there is no real budget charge until you resolve the question of Bor, Majdanpek, Magnochroma, Jumka, Compa, Simpa and those great giants, from whom you run like the devil from the cross. Tell your former colleague Dinkic to stop running ski resorts, let him do some business, because that's where the charge comes from, viscose Loznica and many other cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5496	Mr. Zoran Krasic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5497	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I just wanted to warn you that the Rules of Procedure applies to all those present at the National Assembly Hall. I expected you to apply the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, not to say that member, but to bring it down to Rule 27. Rules of Procedure, so as not to offend you or the people who chair and in respect of the lady who spoke here, but the MPs when they come out for this speaker, they are not obliged to issue numbers, but their opinions. When you, as a representative of the government, come out and say, it's an opinion, I don't care, I want to talk about numbers, you can do it in accounting, you can go to Mr. Shami's math class, but there's an opinion in the Assembly. Whether it will be numerical or verbal, it is a matter of style, as Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic would say. That's the first thing. It's another thing. To you, this is the first budget, which my Nisils, the safes, first the man. I have to draw your attention, since today the people on this Finance Committee have been a little fooled by you, and you've said it nicely here today when you talked about what the budget contains, which is a legal obligation that depends neither on you nor on us, but depends on the harsh provision of the law. So you said, I think it's about 24% of gross social product. You said it was 80% of the budget, so you said something, it doesn't matter, the Republic of Serbia. Yeah, you got it. So, the large percentage of the budget's budget in the divisive side is the harsh reality and application of the law. Rest assured, no SRS MP will call you in that section. That's where we finished the story. So, that part we have nothing to talk about. Why? Well, the National Assembly passed the law, and the government needs to enforce the law. If that law is implemented, the money part must be installed in the budget. And that's it. But what about the rest? He's a software part of the budget. How do you spend that part? That's where you have to let us criticize it, attack it, ask for something to change, because that's where the government's policy is being looked at. In that first part is the policy of the state, and this is what the government's policy is looking at. You mustn't be angry when we criticize you here. And what I really threw at you from the place that it's time to answer, I said it's not the time since I'm the last speaker, it's Tuesday.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5498	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Srdjan Spasojevic, MP of the people, and then Mr Ostojić, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Minister, the chairman, I am truly quite surprised by the appearance of the finance minister here, and I cannot understand that someone who is a serious minister can stand up to some things, and so I ask for another explanation, to explain that situation to us with 35% of the poor citizens of Serbia and some comparison with the New Cemetery. I would really ask you to explain that because there was a little fire and I didn't hear it very well, but I didn't like that comparison at all. I think on one show on RTS you said that Harry Potter was here to take care of the kids and that you came here to take care of people. If that's what you said and what you just said when it comes to 35% of the poor people, somehow I don't feel comfortable with that statement of yours, which I may have been fond of at that point. So, Harry Potter came to take care of the children, so I ask you to explain to the citizens of Serbia what you wanted when you made one comparison with the people. Madam Minister, we are in a state that is extremely burdened with many things, fighting many things. We're fighting against the fact that young people don't get into vices, that we have good youth, that we have sport, that we're recognizable in the world by sport, so I'd really like you to explain to me here why there's no single dinar in this country for athletes. What kind of message is that? What a message, because many are completely surprised at sports alliances, I say to you that it is, and you deny me if I'm wrong, so many of their programs have adapted hoping for years that such rebalancing was intended for sport and are simply collapses in certain regional alliances. Please explain one more thing. What is 60 percent, 100% or 200 percent in the country led by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica in the previous four years? Was any increase in prices during that period so much? Everything could've moved in the regular flows of that common inflation, I mean, the accumulation of gas, phone impulses, and many additions that would follow. This time I want to ask you one more question: why has it been waiting so long in Serbia to match the price of oil derivatives, when they fall in our country only after 15, 20 or a month, why isn't it done immediately? So I ask you to answer that question, because why are we waiting now with the price of nine dinars when it could have been done ten, 15 days ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5500	The word is Mr. Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure. We have another announced speaker as representative of the parliamentary group, Mr. Jovan Nesovic, after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5501	Presidents, co-workers and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, dear Minister, I think your main argument is that the previous two governments had, Vojislav Kostunica and the designated Ilic, who spoke here and the normally inevitable Mladjan Dinkic, who is in your government, the same ratio of public spending as you kept. It's an argument to you that it's good, and it's an argument to us that it's bad. They were wasteful governments, and you continued to be such a government, and that is the fundamental difference between me and Mr. Ilic, who is looking for more state interventions, and enough was under those governments. And that's when we say that we expected LDP to see a change in economic policy in this budget, but it's gone, it's the same as the previous two governments, and those two governments don't deserve a transitional assessment because they've brought the country to where they've brought it. Yeah, 60% of the gas collection, it wasn't under Kostunica, so it has to be now. It could be less if the middleman they pulled in was abolished, but it's obviously hard because whoever was there in the government is sitting in this government. Anyway, I wouldn't go into it when the recession is to be an expansion budget, so you and Jelasic agree, you've obviously learned from different textbooks, but something about numbers. What are those numbers? The increase in expenditure, transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations, an increase in expenditures of nearly 170m euros. That's the cost of the coalition. Subsidies to public non-financial enterprises, again an increase of 110m euros. Please, train subsidies of 11.1 billion dinars, and we know how money was spent in that railway in the previous government whose public spending you are calling, you know those trains from Sweden, etc., and the one who was the director will now be a consultant. Young talents, subsidies of 409 million, subsidies of nearly four billion, subsidies in culture less than a billion. The fines and penalty for the resolution of courts and judicial bodies, the increase in expenditures by nearly 10m euros, the damages to the economy or damage done by state authorities, the increase in expenditures by about sixm euros. Reserve funds, an increase of nearly 20m euros. This is even seven times the increase in reserve funds compared to the increase in budgets. That's why I mentioned the reserve because I have something to measure and compare. In any case, a change in economic policy, which this government has apparently not prepared for this budget rebalancing, requires radical reform cuts, which requires political courage and vision. That's gone, maybe this is the first break, maybe the budget that we're going to adopt in the next year, when you've settled all this stuff that you've had to settle, maybe that budget will be a chance for correction. We know you're against waste and public spending. We're confident that it's not easy for you to defend this budget, either. Otherwise, populistism by definition is the state's drop in front of various social groups. If you're telling me this isn't a downfall in social groups, then I don't know what populism is. Yes, from pensioners to all those seeking larger subsidies, LDP is not asking for more subsidies than less.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5502	The word is Mr. Dobrislav Prelic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister, I'm going to have a little bit of subsidisation. You said here one moment that no one said they were going to give up the subsidy. I think this is more than humiliating to Serbian farmers. The 120-euro agricultural land subsidies per hectare by the May 11th elections were paid weekly. I have the exact information that the last subsidy was paid on May 15th. I'm talking about the Odjaks municipality. Just five days after the election, so the subsidies were paid to the agricultural producers, and you didn't want to say that the bought-out grain was for 11 dinars from our farmer and that after that, the price of the wheat was 25 dinars. When we reject that subsidy that the farmer did not receive, or was given last year, I apologize, many have not received yet, our farmer is under a hectare of less than 600 euros. Let me ask you, what about the subsidies for the breeding heifers? What about the subsidies for the bull's-eye? What about the price of corn, which by yesterday was 18 dinars and today is below seven dinars? The corn in the plunger today is 4.50 dinars. So ten tons of corn is 45,000 dinars. Our peasant will be laying corn this winter, unfortunately, because he won't have the money to buy either the heat or to pay for the gas. I don't think it's absolutely right that you've spoken to him like that, but I also think this question is much more for the Minister of Agriculture. MPs, I believe the opposition, and the SRS in particular, will have something to say to Mr Dragin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5504	Mr. Markicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5505	President-in-Office, respected citizens of Serbia, I appeal to Article 226. I need a message from you, President, which I insisted on a few days ago, but since the state authorities I called for to answer have no response, I'm forced to ask that question again. I would like to be informed what are the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia ready to take on the disgraceous act of the government of Montenegro on the recognition of the false state of Kosovo and Metohija? I think I first asked that question seven or eight days ago. We didn't get any response at any press conferences, not in any written acts, not so friendly, so I realized this is a big game with the citizens of Serbia, that the government of the Republic of Serbia, its prime minister and president of this country actually agree with the government's decision of the Republic of Montenegro and its President Milo Djukanovic. My basic motive for why I came out here is to appeal to the conscience of all state authorities, to remember a man who has been stabbed in the back by Serbia, according to the foreign minister of our country, strikes hunger and has already endangered his life. I ask you as president to respond in this direct transmission, calling for your profession, you are a humanist, a doctor, I want to give support to Andrija Mandic and, above all, to his family, to whom it is most difficult at the moment. So, please, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, respond to what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5506	Thank you. The foreign ministry will be obliged to respond to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think the eight-day deadline has passed where the official response was due yet, but your request has been forwarded to both the Government and the Ministry. National MP Jovan Nesovic, as representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5507	The Honorable Madam Chairman, respected Madam Ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, as well as these amendments and additions to the 2008 Budget Law, which is what we popularly call budget rebalances for 2008, should contribute to those objectives set by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for both 2008 and the next period. The three most important objectives set by the government of the Republic of Serbia are dynamic and stable growth in the economy, employment growth and population standards and the third one is more balanced regional development. What is indicators so far, i.e. the first eight months of 2008 and what is good when we look at the economic crisis that is present in developed countries of the world, developed EU countries and in our environment, that growth is about 7% in Serbia. It's a trend that will continue in the next period and that's something that is very important right now. What is also very important, I think, should be said that the 2008 budget revenue plan, i.e. in changes and additions to this budget, is based on the revenues achieved in the first seven months and the ministry's plan for what will happen by the end of 2008. The most important thing is that the revenue side of the budget will be about 10.5 billion more than what was planned for the first, or basic draft of the budget. I think it's important to point out where the higher incomes are. The revenues are higher than those planned for citizens' income of four billion, on the company's profit tax of two billion, VAT revenues by 5.3 billion, customs revenues by nine billion, and revenues are reduced, or contributions based on excise duties of approximately nine billion. It seems to me that it's very important to analyze this revenue side a little bit and the difference between what's planned and what's planned. The incomes from the income tax are due to wage growth, increased employment and reduced the grey economy. If you compare the data for 2008 and 2007, you will see that these revenues are 20.4% higher than they are in 2007. What is very important is that measures by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Economy, formerly the Ministry of Economy and other ministries related to the start-up of a loan, loans for beginners, severance to work, means of self-employment, credit to the economy through the Development Fund, investment in development of tourism, subsidies to agriculture, produce results. If you have a tax on the Fund is twenty-something bigger than it was last year, then it is logical that in this budget rebalance and certainly in the 2009 budget, this policy should also continue. One thing that is also significant, exports in the first seven months of 2008 compared to the same period last year increased by 21.7%. The bad news is that the same period has increased imports, and this is seen from the part that is related to customs, that customs revenues have increased by about nine billion. However, there is one good thing in all of this, when the structure of imports of Serbia is looked at, it is seen that the participation of immaterial consumer goods is reduced and the share of capital goods is increasing, where roughly, it seems to me, the good item holds the equipment, and that would mean that in the future we will have a safer product, we will have a higher productivity, and thus we will be more competitive in the long term, and this could lead to an increase in exports, which means a reduction in the external trade deficit. The expenditure side of the budget planned in this one is 16.54 billion dinars and the largest item in the divisive side is the provision of missing funds under the 10% early pension increase regulation, which will apply since October 2008, while regularly harmonising pensions in line with the provisions of the PIO Act. That item and the need to realise this plan are somewhere around 12.7 billion. The second major increase in expenditure is related to several major national major projects in the area of transport infrastructure and increased foreign direct investment in the automotive industry. And another item is big, these are subsidies in agriculture. As for the construction of national traffic infrastructures, this is meant by the highway and the bypass around Belgrade. Around Belgrade, some 800m dinars are scheduled and are expected to be released on November 2nd, and this means connecting the Ibar highway and highway to Novi Sad. The second section refers to the construction of a highway from Nis towards Dimitrovgrad and Leskovec towards Presevo, and an additional 2.3 billion dinars are scheduled this year. What is also important and what needs to be pointed out, in the plan of the resolution ministries and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is that Corridor 10 should be completed by 2010, and that is, important to finish by 2012, I apologize. Two reasons for this, first -- good traffic means even greater traffic flow, that means higher revenue than toll. On the other hand, we need to know that, in parallel with our Corridor 10, a special corridor is being created via Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria. If we do not end up a good traffic station, we will have because traffic will shift in that direction, and this will indeed be a lack of funds that will go towards one of our public enterprises, that is, the Ways of Serbia. It is good statements by the restoring ministers that the negotiations with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank, as well as the Government of Greece, are slowly ending and that the financial structure for the completion of Corridor 10 will be completed and that by 2012, we will have the completion of Corridor 10. The second major item is the realisation of a joint project between the Fiat and the flag and through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development for this item, 1.97 billion dinars were allocated. This is a national project, this is something that solves not only the question of the automotive industry in one city, it's in this case Kragujevac. This is something that should simply be an example of how the state needs in the coming period in a direct way to help attract foreign investors to Serbia. With this money and this investment, where the state of Serbia will have 33% ownership, we will address the issues of the car industry in Kragujevac, we will employ 5,000 people, which in companies that will form together, which in co-operatives that will be not only in Kragujevac, but also in surrounding municipalities that are gravitating Kragujevac. This is the way to solve the second segment in the government plan of the Republic of Serbia, which is to increase employment and population standards. What is also significant, the state of Serbia is currently funding 29 industrial zones across Serbia's cities and municipalities through the resolution ministry. This has been shown in countries that have passed the transition, Slovakia, Czechoslovakia and some other countries. Without good infrastructure, without good building land where potential investors can build their production halls, there is no attracting foreign investors, and we really have to do everything we can to just continue these investments and attract these foreign investments. Kragujevac will certainly be thanks to this project's motor power of Šumadija and central Serbia, but not only should it be based on Kragujevac. It is important to make the political development of Serbia, which means we need more Kragujevac in Serbia. As far as the G17 Plus parliamentary group is concerned, it will support the budget rebalancing for 2008 and I, as a member of Parliament, is pleased to invite all other MPs to vote on this budget rebalance in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5508	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Anyone else want a word? I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, submitted by MPs of the following parliamentary groups: MPs' groups ZES, SRS, G17 Plus, DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, Forward, Serbia, LDP, SPS-PUPS, NS. I give my word to the People's MP, Alexandra Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, representatives of the Ministry and citizens of Serbia, has come before us another in a series of laws awaiting this assembly's meeting, this time it's budget rebalance. If we start from the claim that the budget is the most significant law this parliament is dealing with, then it certainly states that it is equal to the importance and rebalance of the budget that is right in front of us. Serbia's public, following day by day our efforts to pass laws that will change their daily lives for the better, just as they were promised in pre-election campaigns, sees that campaigns are one, working in parliament, and their real life is something quite third. They therefore advise us not to forget the two most significant groups that have been kind of neglected by the ministries, or even those that are resolute. In this period ahead of us, they are young and they are pensioners. Both of these groups are very numerous and they are both a large electoral body in themselves, and many in the campaigns are talking to the only and many in the campaigns, but now that the ruling majority has been conquered, it has not shown much sense for their problems. It is not good to create the impression that both young people and pensioners, according to that old people's saying, should be given one hand and taken with two. As in this rebalancing, the interests of these two groups are not visible in an adequate way. I expect that, through the adoption of concrete and very reasonable amendments, both NS MPs and MPs of other parliamentary groups, they will show hearing and goodwill to bring a good legal project. The Youth and Sports Ministry in this budget rebalancing has shown a complete lack of creation, ideas and interest, as if the area that it is dealing with resolutely and is financed from the same budget does not exist. We wonder what kind of young future we can expect if there are no initiatives in our ministry that will stimulate us to build on our quality and spend it in this country. What we expect from this government is a chance, give us the opportunity to be important factors of this society, whether we live in the country, in the city or in the capital. The sports results of our representatives oblige us to reach them in all fields. We youngsters will justify it. Just give us a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5510	MP Vesna Pesic, LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5511	Dear Madam Minister, honourable Members of the People, I wanted to draw attention to only a few old ones, that I expected you to point out the important problems of this budget and this rebalancing. But you've been calling for economic science, that you haven't broken any rules, instead of being much more useful if we've really opened up some important problems that you've been talking about, so I have to tell you that I've read and followed your interviews, for example in "Today," where you've explained very nicely that this budget rebalance has come from unrealistic promises during the elections and that you've even said that for 2008 we've brought a bad deficit budget, and that we're making it even worse, because we're actually making another deficit with this rebalancing. That's what you said in the paper, and here you told us that you followed the rules of economic science. You know what, maybe economic science really says that it's allowed for fiscal deficits to be no more than 3%. Every time you apply a rule like that, it would be okay to ask yourself, why did this deficit happen? You've already answered that in the paper -- because of the unreal promises the parties made during the election campaign. Secondly, it's always some context. Is it time to spend more or is it time to spend less? And that's where you tried to convince us what economic science is saying, and I have to tell you, it's very strange that your colleagues have made a completely different assessment of this moment than you do, and that's why I'm wondering, what's the big deal now. He says -- the budget rebalance adopted by the government has come under sharp criticism from economic experts who think -- I downloaded this, just to say the source, from the site "B 92" -- that there has been no crisis in the global financial market, inflation and large public spending. National Bank of Serbia Governor Radovan Jelasic -- who you were with before that, knows his views -- warns that the state must not spend more than it produces. Let's see what else he says. National Bank of Serbia Governor Radovan Jelasic says the government did not listen to recommendations from the National Bank and international financial institutions when adopting budget rebalancing, to introduce restrictive measures. You convinced us otherwise. I'm telling you that these are also some experts, who say you should have been restrictive and that many are opposed to this kind of rebalancing because public spending is increasing. Last time you mentioned -- it wasn't your fault, you weren't a minister at the time, you weren't even responsible, but we pointed out in the 2008 budget why we're going to the deficit, not to talk about other problems -- how much land we're in charge of, 500 billion, how much more we spend, how much foreign debt we have, current balances. Let's not mention, those figures were already mentioned here, but then we realized here that there was a deficit for 2008 because 32% of the salaries were raised in the state services. If we know that, should economic science increase salaries in government services and make it a deficit? Now for the same, we believe similar reasons, are also going into deficits. It's about subsidies. I don't know if we can subsidize the railroad as much as you've given, I know that the railroad is in a very bad state, but can we subsidize one man, Mr. Sarancic, who's supposed to get, as a director, that money, which made very non-transparent orders around those cars, where we've all had fun on TV for days, that there was one big corruption, so that same man should use your subsidy. In other words, either we stick to economic science, so let's say it's not good that this rebalancing happened, that we spend more because public spending is big. You see, Mr. Dinkic says that, too. He says -- it's always healthier, especially when it comes to pensions, because we have 150 million for pensions here, he says -- it's always more healthy to open new jobs. When it comes to pensions, you here predict 150 million for pensions, for this one-time increase, and of course pensions depend on the number of employees. You're predicting a very small projection, just a 0.80 increase in employment, and we know that a pensioner is coming to one of the employees. Instead of planning an increase in employment, it is minimally planned. It won't be able to fix it, and the budget is constantly spent on that increase is not normal at all. No economic science can confirm that. I must say, if I were to read further what Mr Dinkic says, that new jobs should not be opened, not to go into current personal consumption which, at first glance, brings personal improvements to the citizens, but essentially, he says, is secured through inflation. It is not worth increasing pensions beyond the current limits of our economy, because it will melt. We'd better invest in infrastructure and big investments, hire people, etc. You in the same government have two different arches. This is what I end up with. We've got some people working on economic science class, and then they tell us we don't need to raise pensions. I understand that this depends on the number of employees and other economic factors. At one point we are calling for a liberal economy, and then we say - we shouldn't raise pensions, but on the other hand I can show you in the budget that the government is an unprecedented wastelander. The same Mr. Dinkic, who says this about pensions, is it normal for someone to have six secretary of state, have 11 assistants and have 13 advisors? Are you in the government discussing this? Is that normal? Is that supposed to be? Have you ever looked, when our ministers travel, when our directors of public enterprises travel, have you looked at which hotels they are staying? They are staying in hotels of 1,000 and a half euros per night, in Dorchester, London. They cause mistrust with business partners because they are too big a waste. If you look at it, there are six secretary of state, secretary of state, car, cabinet, and then you look at it, you have four vice presidents. One vice president in the previous government, Mr Djelic, had 36 employees. Now we have three other vice presidents who have their own special ministries, and each of them has increased the rooms and officials for the same thing. For example. Mr. Dacic is Vice President and Deputy Security. He only increased his officers there by 22. Why? The same was done by Mr Dinkic, who has a huge ministry, in that part increased his cabinet as vice president for the same issue, so he is Minister for Economy and Regional Development and increased by 22. So now we have 77 people who only work for the vice presidents, plus their rooms, plus new drivers. I don't know what else to tell you. What does economic science say about that? It offends me that, apart from economic science, Madam Minister, there is some morale, if we increase pensions by 10%, and we know that it's because people really don't, and it's not in line with economic science, I agree that this increase is not in line with economic science, given all these other indicators we have. But since this is consistent with science, because I see that your scientists, especially those paid by ministers, are going for macroeconomic policy, to talk on television about what's right and what's wrong, and then when they come into question themselves, they're invisible consumers. Let's just say, I'd recommend you go through these major ministries. There's not a single ministry that's under four billion dinars, cheapest. Let's say the Department of Human Rights - four State Secretarys. Well done, you only have two. Look, why does the Minister of Minority Affairs have four secretary of state? Where did that come from? I'm talking about, when you talk about economic science, about spreading that economic science to all the parts of that economy, so let's see if it's good to act so immorally wasteful, which the budget can show at every step of what's going on. If 150 million needs to be retired, what we've seen, only for this middleman's commission is given close to 40 million, then what does it really look like? If only those commissions were collected, if your government would once sit down and see how far it goes, I think you said it was about 6%, but with subsidies. I don't know if you've ever added that if you were to cancel, say, what do you need the NIP for, what do you need the Ministry for? Why don't you put it on the government and immediately, as a good economic expert, cancel that ministry? We have a budget. Why do we need another budget? Where did you see a country where there are two budgets? I suggest you sit down with the government as soon as you can and put an end to the Ministry of Faith, the NIP, the diaspora, and all those consumer ministries that don't serve anything, and see where we can distribute these funds for what might be useful, and not for useless things, that we have investments that we can hire people from, not spend in such a rude way, as you propose with this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5512	The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5513	The economy is orderly size, and I totally agree that a large number of ministries, a large number of civil servants, but whenever I claim something, I like to compare myself. So, when I compare the country to Serbia, and neither did I, as an expert, nor my colleagues, as experts, but, let's say, analysis of scientists of the World Bank and the IMF, and when we look at the number of employees in something called the public sector, according to the population, here and in countries like us, we see that we have less participation of public sector employees than the population. It's not disputed that there are a lot of state secretaries, that there are a lot of advisors, etc., not disputed, I wanted to make an example of myself, and you can see if I've hired so many people around me. I've used all the existing resources. You have to make your own example first, and then expect someone else to do the same. But when you add all these costs together, cars, drivers, etc., that's what's visible and what's probably the most annoying of people, that's 1% of the social product. We have to save on the big items. I know pensions are small, but not all pensioners are poor. Therefore, pension expenses are e.g. 17% of the social product, expenditure on public administration employees is 10% of the social product, subsidies costs are 3% of the social product. There's more to be saved. If there was no public administration, you'd have 1% of the social product less public spending.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5514	I thank Mrs. Secretary. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5515	Since you, Madam Minister, are much younger than I am, I must disappoint you when it comes to one thing. All my life, I thought people would look up to me. I haven't even had an apartment my whole life. Believe me, if you think that's going to be your motive as Minister, that you're going to set an example, you're not going to give anyone that example. So I don't think you have the right as finance minister, especially not to remind me of any tradition, for example. Lazar Pachu, the famous finance minister, who would never say that if 1% goes for luxury and spending, that's out of the question. He can't have a single penny going to luxury, remember that. He can't go any of that. In particular, you said that citizens are very sensitive. Yes, they're very sensitive to that. That's why I set the example, because this same Mr. Dinkic states when pensioners are concerned that there is some economic science, we understand all of this, that the number of employees depends on the number of investments and pensions and wages and depends on how much pensions will be. We all know that. But when it comes to him, he doesn't stick with it at all. Then six secretaries, six secretaries, 11 of these, 13 counselors, then the most expensive hotels. What are they pretending to be? The sheep have arrived, just like all of us here. When you get to the state office, you're looking to spend as much as you can. That's what insults this people. We all need to make sure that we're humble people, especially those of the state. You can see that very well, and also, I have to say, and those who are there, there's no difference between the left and the right. What's left, spend even more. It's a phenomenon. The left, the higher the consumption.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5516	Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5517	Of course I checked in with the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, because of the public. I don't think we've seen this degree of arrogance in terms of a representative of the bill. Mr. Dinkic showed great arrogance, but he did it with style, so one year we have a surplus, another year we have a deficit, and nothing has changed, absolutely nothing. And he wanted to be Lazar Patch, he had a great need, he had a great desire. However, I get the impression that you have not understood Mrs Pesic at all. Why should we compare ourselves to our environment, and not tell us what our environment is. If you take some parameters, and that's what the government's representatives are saying, by all economic indicators, we're ahead, say, Romania and Bulgaria, and they're in our environment. I'm not going to touch Hungarians and Hungary now, they're in a difficult crisis, you know. Why are you doing this? If you already want to compare us to someone, then compare us by all parameters, not just by the percentage of people who work in the public service compared to the total number of residents and how much they pay, but by all other parameters. So let's see, if you compare us to France, let's see what the salaries are in France, what the salaries of civil servants are. They're a special strain, they're gentlemen who work in the state service, especially in France and Italy. Every Frenchman and Italian man's dream is to work in the state service, to be on the national faucet. We have these on the state faucet here, which offers us a new Zakstra suit, as a new economic policy. You have to take care of it. There was just one from Dinkic's party and a man told a story, and he forgot that Djindjic was still talking in 2003 about importing labour in 2005. That's the assignment you got, that's said. As it is said to those in Bor - don't do mining, grow peanuts. You're forgetting everything, so you're boasting about some Project Fiat in Kragujevac. Why don't you make a decision that all the vehicles that drive people in government have to be the Fiats? Well, it's not a Fiat vehicle, it hasn't been built yet. Do you really think someone sucked oars so they couldn't see anything and know? Now you're dragging us into one of your stories, nice, nice, with a smile, about numbers, all fine, all Happy, everything is "in" and so on. I'm waiting to get my word and show you the harsh reality in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5518	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5519	The Honorable Madam President-in-Office, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, Minister of Finance, Mrs Dragutinovic, gentlemen of the People's MPs, through the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the 2008 Budget Law, a few priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia can be clearly seen, such as the accelerated construction of infrastructure, financial incentives for strategic investment, improving pensioners' position, financial assistance to talents and others. Part of these priorities should be noted, it is already said for this speaker tonight, it has been formalized through regulations and contracts, such as an emergency pension increase regulation, then a contract with the Fiata, a talent regulation, a contract with infrastructure contractors. We fully agree that successful achievement of economic objectives requires teamwork and everyone will have to save, that is, the fact. It's not possible to increase all costs at the same time, because we can't distribute what we don't have at this point, we can only distribute what we have. Of course, we need to set limits, as did the Ministry of Finance, and priorities to establish the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Such a bill on amendments and additions to the 2008 Budget Law will have the support of the SPS and JS parliamentary club, because it meets our electoral requirements and policies, in line with the current opportunities and strength of our country. This proposal, I must say, creates one real base, one real basis for one of the final goals the government has set before it, so that we have a socially responsible government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course the figures are contained in budget rebalancing, but I want to say it one more time. So total revenues increased from 639.6 billion dinars to 650.2 billion dinars. Total expenditures from 680.55 to 695.96 and the total deficit, as already said, rose from 40.95 to 45.78 billion dinars. As we could have heard more than once, the budget deficit will be covered by two sources, accumulated privatisation revenues from previous years and accumulated surplus from the pension fund of independent actions. According to the Serbian government's projection, the rate of GDP growth in this year should be 7 instead of 6.5% in the previous three years, it seems to me, 2005, 2006 and 2007. Inflation in Serbia is currently around 9.5%. So, for next year, the planned inflation is to be 6%, GDP growth 6.5%, planned unemployment and current balance of payments deficits, which was 18 this year, which is significantly higher than the previous period, and I think it was 15%. Of course, there are macroeconomic risks for next year, and this has been said many times tonight, the continuation of the huge growth of domestic demand and the transfer of the effects of the global financial crisis to our country. We really want to believe as a Parliament club in a statement from the finance minister that we have enough reserves to wait for a crisis more peaceful than other countries. On the other hand, we assess positively that the government has formed a working group to monitor the possible effects of the global financial crisis on Serbia, as well as that banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia will consult to take certain moves. It is true that Serbia is making economic growth with a large inflow of capital from six to seven billion euros a year and the possible consequences of the crisis could be a slowdown in that growth. So, the draft amending and supplementing law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. budget rebalancing, is the consequence of, above all, objective circumstances, I would say, looking first at increasing budget revenues due to the positive trend of macroeconomic indicators in 2008, improving the social status and status of the most vulnerable categories of population, and, above all, the pensioner, providing additional funds for investment and development in capital facilities, as well as attracting direct investment, and patching, I would simply say, a hole in the budget created from a previous period. But it's not the topic of tonight's debate. In such narrowed financial opportunities, the government has proposed budget rebalances. This rebalancing is merely the creation of conditions and the basis for preparing the 2009 budget, which will represent a comprehensive policy of the government. Our policy, policy and programme objectives of the coalition gathered around the SPS are actually already being implemented. Our task is that the promised must be realized, both in the area of investment activities and in the area of socialism, because as a party on the left we were always next to that poorest layer of the population. The government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation on an extraordinary pension increase envisions an increase of 10%, starting with the payment of October's checks, while regularly synchronising pensions. For these purposes, additional funding of 10,758 billion dinars, i.e. with social contributions of 12.7 billion, were proposed to increase pensions, both civil and military. Only the malicious can say that the implementation of this policy is the result of political bargaining, the compromise of political partners, not the reality and the real need for which we should all stand together. Our goal should be to cut donations and transfer funds from the budget, which are now 36% in the total funding of the Republic Fund for PIO. This can only be achieved through higher revenues based on social contributions achieved by new jobs and by increasing earnings, i.e. the material position of the taxpayers. To that end, additional funding for the completion of start-up capital projects of 2.3 billion dinars is a real basis for new employment. Passing by the construction site of a bypass around Belgrade, I must express my satisfaction by seeing everything peak as during the country's rebuilding period led by Minister Mrkonjic. I think that's how it is on the construction of Corridor 10. Corridor 10 is today a national issue and it is very important that everyone in this country understands the importance of this capital investment and this project, i.e. on the shares of Leskovac-Presevo and Nis-Dimitrovgrad. The planned and agreed deadlines must be respected and only with such efficiency is Serbia's prosperity possible. Starting an investment swing from budget funds will also contribute to attracting foreign investors. We can thus show the world that all crises in Serbia are past. Finally, I propose that this rebalancing be adopted as soon as possible, because for the abovementioned reasons, as well as additional funding for agricultural subsidies of around 7 billion dinars, so that we do not again have the practice of paying them off in the evening of elections, the funds for all subsidies must be provided for all users and paid off neatly. The above principle must also be respected in housing policy, because the current principle warm-cold, in addition to all the positive effects, creates a negative picture in the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5520	Thank you. Mr Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5521	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I am reporting to you under Rule 194 for the National Assembly. We have the honour and pleasure to speak with Minister Sulje instead of Cvetkovic, Dinkic, Vuk Draskovic, Canka, Rasim. It's an extraordinary situation. My colleague Vesna Pesic encouraged me by mentioning Laza Pachu. One day when they adopted a budget like this at the beginning of the century, Lazar Pachu gave a lot more money than the previous year for schools and education. So Nikola Pasic said to him, "Lazo, you know what, you've gone too far." He says, well, no, it's a need, an education in Serbia. And Nikola Pasic tells him, you know, Lazo, the two of us will never go to school again, you better give that money to prisons, to close it down, because we certainly won't go to school, and here maybe. Elem, since your colleague, Minister Dinkic, and this is an exceptional opportunity under Article 194, says he did not participate in a meeting where Serbia was taken as a partner and handed over to foreigners at the phantom firm Jugorosgas and then appointed the director who signed the contract and thus re-introduced to the gas trade, who Djindjic threw out, please, here's the report from the government, hand it over to Dinkic, because he says it is not a good document and there is no number. Here, there's a number, it all says, I'm sure you'll see it before I do. Thank you. (Employer Ostojić surrenders the minutes to the minister. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5522	Thank you. Mr. Veroljub Arsic. (SRS emissaries banging on benches. Gentlemen, please allow Mr. Arsic to address the congregation. We have, on many occasions today, come to understand, us from the presidency, for all that is happening in the political life of the SRS, those who were once members and who were no longer. Please, the appropriate instance of this country should solve this problem. We've also appealed from this place to make it happen as soon as possible. I'm really asking you to allow the MP to speak now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5523	I thank the chairman. I'm not mad at my fans making this noise here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tried several times to monitor the presentation of the finance minister. I can say that there are facts before us that we really cannot measure here in Serbia, as it is. First, the public spending claim relating to the number of employees in the state administration compared to Western countries is, I can say, extremely ridiculous. Like us, we allegedly have less than some countries in the environment or some other countries compared to the number of inhabitants. That's what you said. But I wish you'd made a comparison of what their gross income per capita is, so how many employees in the state administration then. Because it wouldn't be a big deal if they had ten times the head of the population's income, if they had five times as many government employees, because they're rich and they can pay. So don't make it an excuse for high public spending. When it comes to this budget, when you look at it as it is, you might not be scary to yourself, but when you look at the budgets from 2000 to today, you're asking yourself what's going on. If I know a similar budget proposal is going to be in front of us in just a month, then I'm really worried about where this country is going. You're taking your head off. Now you've found the last quarter of 12 billion dinars to secure a 10% pension increase. For next year, if you want to keep that pace, it'll take you over 40. Let me get this straight. So, that's what we're talking about. What kind of budget we could expect, if we consider that he is, as one puts it, a compromise of various political ideology, politicians, etc. I would call it a compromise no offense to you, Madam Minister, a compromise of political diletaries, sick ambitionists and exhibitionists. This is such a budget and you can talk about it and defend it as much as you want, it's absolutely it. Everyone in this government has been racing to prove that this budget rebalance is what they managed to make those promises that were in the pre-election campaign move into this budget rebalance. Somehow most of all, the pensioner's party, i.e. Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobibic, fought to say that the highest budget is only made because of the budget's rebalancing, pension increases. Let me be clear. I totally agree that most pensioners have a hard time living, that most of them deserve it, filling those funds, that they're also receiving a bigger pension. Another important fact is that they need to improve their standard of living is that often their descendants live on their pensions, because they can't find a job or get a job. That's the problem, and I can say I don't mind this. However, I do not understand why the budget increase. Because, like this, I had here now at the pay phone about an hour ago of my fellow MP from G17 plus who says, claims, and with him also the minister, or State Secretary of Government Ilic and Minister and President G17 plus Mladjan Dinkic, argues that the number of unemployed in Serbia is decreasing, that the number of employees is increasing, that there is a profit increase. So when it's all like that, why do we give pensioners out of the budget, taking away from others? So someone's obviously lying about it. It has neither an increase in employment nor a real increase in earnings. It's more of just marketing certain politicians that affect the Republic Statistics Institute. If we look at the draft budget itself, and the budget on its revenue side should consist of real income, which is derived from the real income that generates most of the domestic economy. In this I will deny you only if I show you in Article 1 in the first table, see, value added tax in the country 88 billion 772 million, import value added tax - 222 billion, almost three times the tax charged when something is imported. Customs - 107 billion. Don't say it's the imports of energy, etc. It would be funny to you because that tax is being passed on later. So, most of the Serbian economy exists and operates by buying goods in the west, importing into Serbia and selling. So we don't fool around anymore. There's no real growth in production, and that's a problem that someone needs to seriously think about and start solving. This way we certainly won't. And what public spending looks like and that claim when it comes to whether it's 1% or 3%, you're in power eight years, it's 8% of some budget. Count what it is in eight years. You think it's funny. So when it comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the megalomaniac demands, the sick ambitions and the sick exhibitionism, I can't call it anything else. In the 2009 draft budget, namely the 2009 budget law, the vice-president's cabinet is set to spend 93 million dinars. Isn't that right, Madam Minister? The vice president's office, everyone. Look at the budget, I guess you know it. Now, you don't know that number, how do you approve of the funds? The cabinet of only one Deputy Prime Minister, who is also a minister, has a second cabinet, will spend what is in the original 2009 budget proposal, or according to the 2009 budget law, planned for all four, and this is Minister and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Bozidar Djelic, called Boza Derikoz, the Duke of Meridian Bank, who will spend 91m and 700m. So many four vice presidents were supposed to spend. Let's look further, the minister of police and the first vice president of the government, another cabinet has, 17 million 430 thousand. Minister for the Government of the Republic of Serbia Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, is due to spend, alongside his cabinet, as Deputy Prime Minister, another 30m dinars. Let's take a look at how many cabinets the Prime Minister has, which should unite the work of all ministries and have at least one expert for each ministry, to know what's happening to him in the ministries: he'll spend 55 million. So who's making who crazy around here? Why are you even trying to defend such colleagues against the citizens of Serbia? The story to myself is Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobbic, whom I can call freely the modern Robin Hood, a man who robbed funds in the 1990s. Yeah, what are you laughing at? But then he grabbed for himself, and now I guess out of repentance or anything else, you know, like, thieves usually make, help churches, monasteries, hoping that someone will forgive them for those sins, advocates that pensions increase here. I don't mind. They need to increase. But how? Real-estate. Now there's a new Robin Hood who takes away from one to give to another, and along the way there's gonna be something else for him. What kind of government is God help us? (For the entire time the speakers were being told the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5524	Mr. Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, then Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister, your reaction to the statements of some MPs has even asked me to answer my word at all. I suppose that's because you're here for the first time, but MPs come from different backgrounds, with different levels of education and education, without knowledge in the area of economy or finance, and they can say something about them again, but your reactions are absolutely inappropriate, completely nervous, hasty, and the metaphor of the new cemetery is really extremely inappropriate. This does not refer to someone acting as Minister of Finance in the Government who has been vehemently announced as a socially responsible government. Mrs Dragutinovic, this is a socially irresponsible government. This is the spending of a pair of state, people's couples, as if they were Alajbeg's straw and it's the result of an unprincipled coalition and has already been mentioned several times by Lazar Patch, and here's to make my contribution to that historical thought. When King Petar asked for a loan for Mausoleum on Oplenac, he trembled in front of Lazar Pachu, you seem to tremble in front of Ivan Krkobic. I speak figuratively, but it seems to be true. All I ask of you is answers to questions: how much did pensions really grow? I know you have to balance yourself in that ungrateful role as an equilibrist, but you're not a goldfish, and she can only grant three wishes, she can't fulfill a lustful wish, Madam Minister. Let me just tell you what waste means. Look at the item - travel expenses of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, 250 000 euros, and look at the item - services per contract and explain to MPs what it means. In the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development of a million euros, a million euros in some abstract imaginary services under contract. Mrs Dragutinovic, some of the people in this room were ministers before you, under the circumstances of my smallness, in the socially responsible and most responsible government of Zoran Djindjic. You know what that responsibility meant? The responsibility meant that in three years and something one single dinar for the national or abroad team, in three years and a few months, never on a state plane, but on JAT alone. You can ask my associates and now people in the government, these are members of my cabinet, they had 50 marks, or 50 euros for phone costs, Snezana Malovic, she is now the minister of justice. That's what I'm proud of. Aleksandar Misovic, State Secretary for People's Defence, Dusan Protic, Assistant Trade Minister and others, so ask what the Socially Responsible Government meant. Maybe Zoran Djindjic was exaggerating in this, they may have compared him to Mao Ce Dung, but people's money was not spent on the era and Serbia was not Alajbe's straw. I don't have time, I'm sorry, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5526	The word is Mr. Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5527	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I must say that I am delighted that you like to speak the language of numbers and I will begin with the language of numbers. To begin with, you are currently supported by 19 MPs, which is 14.8% of the ruling majority. When the budget is adopted, and therefore also when budget rebalances are made, it is of course a fundamental assumption that this is done for the benefit of the state, or its citizens. I have the impression that this rebalancing is, and we're going to see what a new budget is going to be in a month, in fact a rebalance relating to the well-being and coalition partners in the government, to the fulfillment of their little and big desires, starting with the sausages solving poor pensioners' problems, I'm going to explain this word later, so to solve the problems of various giraffes, you take this extremely figuratively. We've got a budget rebalance that's very high, expenditures are higher than income for 46 billion, or maybe it'll be simpler to talk in euros, it's about 550 million euros. Who eats these expenses, who can even smell the budget? You know, like the family budget, they separate, you have income, you have expenses, you can borrow, you have to repay, but at the end of all the pluses and all the minuses are borne by family members. So, in this case, the citizens of Serbia carry. If you divide these 550m euros into the number of only full-aged citizens of Serbia, those who are supposed to be able to do business, you will get that minus 550m costs each adult citizen 90 euros annually, as much as 90 and some euro. In other words, now I'm going to go back to what I said to the poor pensioners, that you're going to give a seven thousand dinars a seven thousand and 700 dinars, you've already taken this minus in the budget. Not to mention, in fact, the largest share of those revenues that are incomed from the budget is also taken from citizens through various taxes, excise taxes and everything that citizens have to pay and, in fact, in the past period has already been taken from citizens. According to official data, food was up five and a half percent, and it cost 60% of gas. And speaking of gasses, you're very demagoguely placing one misinformation in public, like you're not going to collect gas, but now we're going to charge 70%, and 30 percent we're going to pay in June. Math is simple, 100/160 is the same as 70/100. So, the only thing someone will pay for their winter heating bill in January by the end of June, of course, will pay for it again. He bought the phone, collected drugs from many, accumulated municipal services, and we hear that the mayor of Belgrade is asking the government to defrost municipal services. So he'll pick up more. Getting back to the poor pensioners, there's no difference. You'll have a pensioner who, at least seven thousand dinars of pension and who, I'm sorry, statistically speaking, is dead, because he has nothing to eat, he gets 700 dinars, and that pensioner of 100,000 pensions gets 10,000 dinars. I guess it was more normal that instead of the linear withdrawal of pensions, those with the lowest pensions from someone else, perhaps the social fund, make up a few decent limits that they could survive without being supported by children, grandchildren, relatives, which is, unfortunately, the most common case. In other words, when you break it down, this socially responsible government, as it has introduced itself from the beginning and as it continues, I personally think, is very falsely represented, is essentially a socially irresponsible government. What worries the most is the fact that I don't see, I'm sorry, now I could talk about the details of the budget for the next four hours, but for that there's no time, it's going to be through the various amendments that we've submitted, but what I'm most concerned about is that I don't see the light at the end of the tunnel, I don't see an idea, I don't see how this state is going to make sure that the money is made. We're finally gonna sell this little bit of what we got, so when we sell it all out, then I don't know what we're gonna do next. This is not only a question of these governments, it is also a question of various other governments. Madam Minister said she likes to work by law. There are many examples of this rebalancing where the law is not respected. I have a little example. Item 3.7 refers to the financing of the government's media co-operation agency. That funding costs about 79 million and something, a million-euro order, but when you spread the fog, you see what it's about. The agency supplies media houses, especially smaller media houses that do not have enough money and which are different taxes that they have to pay to the state completely impoverished, supply them to the haired, government information. Ask the Agency's representatives like Beta, such as Fonet, how they react to it. You know what, it's unfair competition. You're actually doing the same thing Broz did at the time, though, at least the thing was fair, there was only one agency called "Tanjug" and despite that agency there was nothing more. Now there is, but who's going to take the services of other agencies when they get free information from the government agency, of course, the ones that the government is responding to. This is a small example, here we're talking about billions of euros, how much the budget totals. The budget is almost 9 billion euros. For a country like Serbia, I'm not sure it can handle it and that it can already be quite a broken economy to pay, but a small example, just as an illustration, about respect for the law. Of course, I don't have to assure you that what you're doing is illegal and not only by our regulations, but also by those famous European regulations that we always swear on. There will be opportunities for more conversations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5528	Thank you. Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic, since it is the order of Dejan Mirovic and his replacement, I am asked to do so. Mr. Zoran Nikolic according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Kragovic..
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5529	Article 104. To answer that, I was encouraged by professor. Shami. He performed a statistic here, that only 19 MPs in the O.R. currently support it, which is about 14%, is not exactly accurate. In the O.R., I counted 15 MPs in front of the ruling majority, and on the screen you have about 35 cards on this side. I think as an opposition party, especially us from the DSS, we're very sensitive to cards and voting. Look at the screen. Do you want me to turn on the screen? And Mrs. Neda Arneric was on the screen, and she was in Bodrum. And Mr. Novakovic was in Thessaloniki when it was seen on the screen that he voted. So, for me, it's a relevant screen, and since we as MPs, regardless of what you're doing right now, we have a common goal of keeping this assembly together, that it is in the common interest that the President of the Assembly takes care of this dignity and that we determine the true state of affairs of the presence of the MPs. And I inform the public, as many as 15 members of the 128 parliamentarians who make up the ruling majority are currently in the O.R., and I would notice that this is not very good, because the budget is the most important law that the Assembly adopts and it is natural that, above all, MPs of the ruling majority are in the O.R. when it is being debated.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5530	Article 86, Mr Nikolic, paragraph 4, says that the debate on certain points in the established agenda of the National Assembly session is being conducted regardless of the number of MPs present. There's no reason to determine the quorum now. We're continuing our work. Mr. Lapčević, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5531	The Honorable Chairman, this explanation of yours you have now given is not even requested, but has been said that there are many more identified MPs on the screen on the cards than there are in the hall. Article 120 says MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the O.R. by inserting a card into the MP's unit, i.e. to check out when leaving the O.R. Apparently, there are 35 people on the screen on the left-hand side, physically 15, which means 20 people didn't log out, so they broke this Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5532	Both Jovan Nesovic and Mr Milenic were replaced, so the order is different. The word is Mr. Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5533	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Ministers and Representatives of the Government, as proposing, seems to be slightly inappropriate to the real proposal on the agenda. It's about the importance of the Budget Law. Beyond any doubt, it is one of the most significant laws that the Assembly adopts after the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, which the theorists call law on laws, because it defines the procedure by which the laws are passed and from which they take their legitimacy. The budget law is probably the most important act the representative body of citizens adopts. But on the agenda, it's not the budget law. The 2008 budget law was passed a year ago, and on the agenda is the law on changes and additions, the so-called budget rebalancing, which, despite the apologies you completely needlessly gave, said that it is not standard in the last quarter, is indeed in the last quarter, but it seems to me completely to be expected, even a routine thing, because budget categories are mostly planning categories, and as the year nears the end, it is necessary to agree with the reality of the plans, wishes, the intentions that existed at the end of the year when the budget for the next one was passed. Obviously, that's exactly how it is, based on macroeconomic indicators, there are recorded increased expectations on the income side, that there are legally, in the meantime, changed situations that the budget needs to respect. Let's not forget the government law we've brought. It would all be routine and not particularly worth discussing, nor reporting, if there was only one important moment, that this was the budget rebalance brought by the Assembly in a different assembly and on a proposal from a different complex government. That's why it seems to have to be commented. Of course, there is how in the classic literature of national romance the Dragon defined, where I stood you longer, and as we heard, and we still owe you, it is the same, but it is only the minimum, which of course must be respected as some basis for institutional and social unity. That's all I understand, which would have been particularly respected in the program, because ambitions are quite different. Only from two points of view seems relevant to discuss, from the point of view of what has succeeded in the rest of the year, from pre-election promises and programme-proclaimed targets already in this year, to provide a relevant space for the realization of jobs, and also from the point of view of the very good fact that the rebalancing process was done here at a time when the budget law for 2009, as well as in some sense the preparatory action, and also the opportunity that this, most importantly, seems to me, and the first major work for this government is being discussed. From the point of view of the political goals of the new government, or even more specifically, the pre-election promises of the dominant political group around which the government is also gathered, we can find something that is unfortunately too rarely heard because of the ambition of parliamentarians to contribute to the efficiency of this body's work through reduced reporting. The fact is that the most important pre-election promises has already been fulfilled by the ruling majority in Serbia. Remember, the programme promises are about joining Europe and adopting a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and our Assembly has ratified the agreement, and a promise to realise the signing of a contract with Fiat, which has already been made. When the government coalition came together, it appeared as a relevant moment in retirement growth, and it is this rebalancing that creates the basis for achieving agreed goals. But let's not forget, in the meantime, what no moment in the pre-election campaign of the leading group for European Serbia has failed to point out, that putting into priority the issues of development, the current topics of our modernity, does not mean forgetting about the topic of national dignity, territorial integrity and sovereignty. And as Prime Minister Cvetkovic's government explicitly defined what was stated by the view that we would never recognise KIM's independence, it was formulated as transferring the issue from political to legal burden and exactly the most significant victory on the ground was also achieved by voting at the UN General Assembly. What is important in the implementation of this programme regarding the Fiat Treaty is to point out here and to see that this rebalancing has already been able to update here and what a significant novelty of the national economy. Not only because of the increases in the incomes of the contractual commitments, it can also be monitored through changes in the appraisals. With those infrastructure changes also respected for the realisation of the contract, about half a billion dinars are here to implement infrastructure projects directly related to the joint investment of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fiat group in the new company. If I'm not mistaken, about 430 million to continue the construction of the highway that practically Kragujevac is located on Corridor 10, with works that are largely under way and which only need to provide certain resources to avoid being stalled. As about 100 million are being transferred to the Ministry of Infrastructure, it is with changes in the appraisal from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which provides the necessary funding for the development of a project documentation for the construction of the northern bypass, which is also a contractual condition for the implementation of a programme related to Fiat. There is this second aspect which is, frankly, more difficult to me, although I understand that it is not particularly attractive through all the congregation discussions we have heard, and this one about the allegedly important budget. It is a discussion on budget preparation for 2009 and priorities. The budget is the sincerest economic and financial response to the politically-proclaimed objectives and through the budget is the clearest way to express relations with topics and social issues of public importance as they are treated in a specific programme. I want in that sense, using this pay phone and as an opportunity to appeal, to talk about the position of culture and education in the budget. The position of education, when viewed numerically and if we insist so much on dialogue at the time of the monologue, to take advantage of the opportunity to mention something from the point of view of language competence, is not too much to talk about the figures from this pay phone because MPs are very rarely when they are able to talk about the numbers. It's mostly numbers. Smaller or larger can only be numbers, and figures only in case that depends on quality, vision and skills in printing. In terms of the number and percentage, the education budget seems respectable. It satisfies even the standards that are quite high, it's about 15%, I think even more. Even in this rebalancing, additional funds were provided to the Ministry of Education, but yesterday we had an opportunity to hear from the Minister of Education that 97% of these funds were used to earn employees in the education system. Here in the proposal for a decision that has been delivered to us, it says that additional funds will be allocated for education and says -- most of the funds from the Republic's budget are related to the Ministry of Education, provided for employees' salaries, this law provides additional funds to honour the signed protocols between the Government and the representative trade unions of education. It is then added immediately, however, in the new paragraph, although it is in a causal and consequential relationship, additional funds are provided for fines and foams after the judgment of the courts, in accordance with the executive court rulings. I'm not sure if the MP public knows what this is about. It is a major problem that creates unnecessary tension and even a kind of dissuasion in the relationship between the central state authorities and local self-government, and these are problems related to the payment of jubilee rewards to educators, who are systematically not taken into account from the point of view of the Ministry of Education, it is clear why. Because of the percentage of highly dimensional frameworks of education, but insufficient to finance except for the profit of anything else. It is difficult to face it, but the public should hear it, that the development of education in Serbia is based on the budgets of local self-government. Investments, ongoing maintenance, equipment, and not to mention constant costs, are all expenses of local self-government, as the budget of the Republic of Serbia does not reach this area to this level of problem. Transfer that kind of responsibility, so-called. Jubilee awards, based on labour rights, local self-government seems to be something that does not correspond to either the letter or the spirit of the law and defined relations in this action. With culture, the thing might be even more dramatic. I don't know if anyone calculated how much the percentage of our budget is separate for culture? It's just the one-percent-mined one-of-a-kind. There's no reason on the right to overdo those triumphs, because for years, it's been falling below 1% in the past five or six years. But what's the big deal? The only thing that's scary is that it's a civilization minimum, defined by the UN authorities dealing with this topic. When this topic is opened, it is usually mentioned: yes, but there is continued budgetary growth, so it is not as important as the amount of funds is important. That doesn't seem to be the case, because it speaks significantly of the rating and the importance attached to this activity. More specifically, the culture in the Republic of Serbia lives on the funds of local self-government. All several cities, Belgrade first and foremost, Subotica, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, have percentage-respecting separations for this activity. The budget of the Republic of Serbia over this topic should actually express its relationship to the content and activity that the institutions of culture are dealing with, and this is directly related to the government's programme objectives, because if they are not interpreted reduced, according to the habits of the daily press, but contentally, it is difficult to understand the questions of standards without relation to the subject of culture and education. It is difficult to understand the issue of development without relations qualitatively on the subject of culture and education and it is difficult to understand the issues of modernising convergence with the standards of European countries without adequate and budgetary percentage and quantitatively represented relations with the actions of culture and education. As my discussions, as in this case, are resentful of understanding, it seems to me that the most explicit Mr. Sreten Peric has expressed himself to believe that this should be a reason for a distance from political life, Mr. Peric, I just need increased separations for education and culture, and that we understand each other. Among other things, this reflects what is the core theme of the political organisation's "Together for Kragujevac" programme, which I belong to and which, within the G17 Plus parliamentary group, wants to insist on the update of the decentralisation topic in the state and society. Decentralisation without fiscal decentralisation is a more or less demagogue category, and in the preparation of the 2009 budget, we will have to take care of it, among other things. Things happen that are surprising. I have recently learned that, for example, in such an important enterprise as Telecom in Serbia, complete centralisation has been carried out, although not in a form that would be interesting for the government and public life, forms of internal reorganisation, but the fact that regional centres of Telekom are virtually no longer present. All planning issues are resolved exclusively in Belgrade for the whole of Serbia, which means that both regional accounts are being shut down and that all the money that runs through the system flows through Belgrade accounts, and that means that local environments do not have a realistic percentage of the VAT achieved on the basis of which the transfer funds for the transfer from the central budget should be allocated to local self-government. These are all complex issues of this society which, of course, cannot be solved by one single act by just one government, especially by one law. Why are you so subversive to my business rights that I use the time that belongs to the parliamentary group within which I act? I didn't expect that from you because you're like a lawyer, I guess, in love with legal standards. If you really need an interpreter to understand the message that I am sending to the Ministry first of all, then, before the arguments I've been making, they're getting to the point, because I repeat the increased separations in culture and education, the amount of understanding in the communicative community and the willingness of that community to achieve exactly the goals that make up Prime Minister Cvetkovic's programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5534	Mr Batic reported to the Rules of Procedure and just to let you know, as some MPs left the hall and left their cards in MPs' units, that these cards were delivered to the secretary of the National Assembly and will be returned on entry, in accordance with Article 121. Here you go, Mr. Batic. It's two cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, I think that there is a need for increased separations for "Laza Lazarevic". First of all, let's move on to some other topics. Searching...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5536	Mr. Batic, I'd really like you to compare the content of your testimony to your intelligence.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5537	Madam President, don't count on me this time. I think the people at Laza Lazarevic are working in very difficult conditions, completely ruined buildings, personnel problems, small wages, and patients a lot. I wasn't joking at all. Why are you reacting like that? Some of my associations, why I said it at the time, are you suggesting it, but it's already your ability to perceive and conclude. I didn't say anything, and I didn't say anything to anyone, and that's especially your brand, Madam President, and you instead of helping me with that education, you're criticizing me. Now give me back my time on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, Madam Minister, I expect you to respond -- what do the allocations mean for services under a million-euro contract for Minister of Economy and Regional Development? What does the cost of travelling to the Deputy Prime Minister and European Integration Minister of 220,000 euros mean? Does this include co-operation with Martin Schlaff, does this include a nomination from the Vienna Stock Exchange at the magazine "Juromani" for Minister of the Year? If you have ambition, you know the way. Of course, I'm not alluding to you and respecting you. Did you know that the same gas story leads right to Martin Schlaff, the award winner for Minister of the Year Euromani? "Centricks" is Martin Schlaff. The price of gas and bloated gas is Martin Schlaff. A group of local tycoons and local ministers, former and present, are paying for it from their exhausted wallets. The same people were around Mobtel, and the National Savings Bank. In the end, let me tell you what waste means, if the director of the airport, and he was named by the government, a man named Bojan Kristo, these were colleagues from the Radical Party, and I'm going to give you this, spend it on staying at the Hilton Park Lane Hotel in London for 60,000 dinars for one night, then it's insolence and waste. Here, bed and breakfast services in a single room. (President: It's been three minutes. I'm done. If the same man, Bojan Kristo, director of the "Nikola Tesla" airport, spends on a trip to Zurich and back 178,000 dinars, here's the bill, it's 2,000 euros, then it's wasteful, and then it's insolence and it has to be answered for. If that same man travels to London, goes back and costs him 132,000 dinars, then it's Alibe's straw. If he and counterpart Dragan Nestorovic spends 268,000 dinars on the road to Madrid, it is wasteful and insolent. If the same man for catering services, CEO of Belgrade Airport Bojan Kristo, with all the badges on which the EU flag, spends 810,000 dinars or 10,000 euros from 31 January to 31 July, it is a disaster. (President: Time. ) If the same man rents a car "masserati" at the same time and the price of the rental is 15,000 euros in five months, 3,000 euros per month, so ordinary people don't have a car of 15,000 euros, they don't have 3,000 euros, they're bastards, they're no longer thieves and cheaters. It's wasteful, it's bastards and it's rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5538	Please use adequate terms. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5539	Regarding Mr Batic's discussion, which I claim is a injured member referring to the dignity of the Assembly and the obligation to respect the dignity of every MP, I have only to note the following: it is extremely indicative that in well-sighted time terms, as Mr Albianic has already told you, always with the same kind and on the same side of the targeted criticisms you are addressing. Now I understand the nervousness of bothering you at the pay phone, because the current term is out, the session of the Assembly ends. It wasn't because you knew that under my name on TV it was written by G17 plus that you were sacrificing the fact that you were the most recognizable person of a political organization with whom "Together for Kragujevac" in Kragujevac successfully co-operated, so that your mental health-related illusion, which, unfortunately, we all understood well, can only be interpreted as one kind of reaction of vanity in the face of what is beyond it. That reaction in such a case seems to be simple, primitive. I heard Mr. Markicevic, Professor Pesic, throw "e, we are mature for the coalition". According to you, it looks like that line is ready for the coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-24-0.u5540	Gentlemen of the Parliament, it's eight o'clock, or it's time to part until Tuesday at 10.00 o'clock. We're finishing today's work. I thank you, especially Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Stojiljkovic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 158 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall right now, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we begin today's session, I would like to remind ourselves together of an important historic date for the Serbian Parliament. Exactly 150 years ago, on October 28, 1858, the first Law on the National Assembly was passed. This law is made up of only one congregation, ad hoc. The Law on the National Assembly provided for one part of the MPs to enter the Assembly on invitation, and the other part to be chosen by taking one MP on every 500 tax heads in cities, and one more 250 each. The vote was public. In the presence of the prince's representative, the assembly elected the president of the assembly, the vice-president and two secretaries. According to this law, I quote, "the task is for the Assembly to be faithful and accurate in front of the government of the people's state of affairs and feelings." The proposals of the National Assembly had no obligation until the prince and the council, according to the Constitution, sharpened it. Two-thirds of all MPs were required to work, and decisions were made by the majority. The law guaranteed freedom of speech and opinion. The first elections for the National Assembly were, on the basis of an indication, held on 16 November 1858. I am taking the opportunity to stress the need to pass a new Law on the Assembly as quickly as possible, in accordance with Article 110. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, I have put forward a proposal to all MPs asking for representatives who would participate in the draft law on the National Assembly. It was today that the Administrative Committee was scheduled to decide on the work of the Group for draft laws on the National Assembly. We'll have a cocktail at half today and I invite you to participate in it. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Ruzica Stojiljkovic, assistant director of the Treasury Administration. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Budget of Serbia for 2008. THE YEAR AND AMENDMENTS OF THE FINANCIAL PLANS OF THE REPUBLICAL FUND FOR THE PENSION AND INVALID SURVEILLANCE, NATIONAL JOBS AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES FOR SENSE (the follow-up in principle) The word is Mr Dragan Vujadinović.
