ParlaMint-RS_2008-03-05-0.u15444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when adopting the minutes from previous sessions and setting up the agenda, exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are not present in the hall, so I'm setting a break of an hour. Continuation is at 11.00. [[After break – 11,20]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that none of the MPs has sent an explanation why they do not attend the session of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called this session for Wednesday, March 5, 2008, meaning, within a short period of time, as set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider the proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. You were presented with records of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 25 and 26 December 2007, the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 26 December 2007, the eighth session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 27 and 29 December 2007, the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 15 February 2008 and the minutes of the session of the first extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 18 February 2008. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes of the 6th, 7th and 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, the minutes of the First Special Session of the National Assembly in 2008 and the minutes of the 2008 session of the First extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. I would like to inform you that by verifying the work of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments have delivered, in writing, any objections to the minutes of these sessions. We're going to make a decision on the records. 1. I am voting on the minutes of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 25 and 26 December 2007. For 118, it did not vote 95 out of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 25 and 26 December 2007. 2. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 26 December 2007. For 121, 99 of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 26 December 2007. 3. I am voting on the minutes of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 27 and 29 December 2007. 98 of the 221 MPs did not vote for 123. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 27 and 29 December 2007. 4. I am voting on the record of the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 15 February 2008. For 121, they did not vote 102, of the 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first special session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 15 February 2008. 5. I am putting to the vote the minutes of the 2008 National Assembly of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 18 February 2008. He did not vote 101 for 122, of the 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 18 February 2008. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the assembly of this session, which has been delivered to you, has contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals to put on the agenda for the urgent procedure, on the proposal for an extension of the agenda, on proposals for a merger of the debate and on proposals for changing the order of consideration of the points of the proposed agenda. 1. The government proposed putting on the agenda the draft law confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank Road Rehabilitation and Bridges B-2, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 December 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, it did not vote 98 out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. 2. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ("Addditional financing of the Transport Reconstruction Project") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 98 of the 229 MPs did not vote for 131. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 3. The government proposed putting the draft budget system law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 133, it did not vote 96 out of 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 4. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 98 of the 229 MPs did not vote for 131. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 5. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Republic Administrative Taxes, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote 98 out of 228 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Six. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 98 of the 229 MPs did not vote for 131. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Seven. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, it did not vote 100 out of 228 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 8. The government has proposed to put the draft law confirming the loan agreement (the Regional Development of Bora project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 129, 99 of the 228 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Nine. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ("Addditional financing of the Energy Efficiency Project for Serbia") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 129, 98 of the 227 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Ten. The government proposed putting on the agenda an emergency procedure on the draft law to confirm the financing agreement (the Regional Development of Bora project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Development Association, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, the abstentioned one, was not voted 100, of the 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 11. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ("Addditional financing of the Rehabilitation of the Watering and Disposal System Project") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, it did not vote 100 out of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 12. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention on the unification of certain rules for international air transport, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 January 2008. I put this proposal to a vote for 130, not 98 of the 228 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 13. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Prelog Law on the Protection of Personality Data, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 95 of the 224 MPs did not vote for 129. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 14. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Funding Agreement ("Addditional financing of the Energy Efficiency Project for Serbia") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Development Association, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 February 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Ninety-seven out of two hundred and twenty-six MPs voted for 129. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 15. The government proposed that the draft law on the write-off of interest be put on the agenda on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 18 January 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote 96 out of 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 16. The government proposed putting on the agenda the draft law confirming the loan agreement ("Process of reform of agriculture in transition") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 February 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote 96 out of 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 17. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the grant agreement from the Global Fund for the Protection of the Environment ("A project for the Reform of Agriculture in Transition") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as the Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 February 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote 96 out of 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 18. Eighty-eighty-one MPs of the SRS Group proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia in relations with international organisations, particularly the European Union, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 February 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 133, against 32, the vote was not 37, of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. On the basis of Article 90(3) and Article 140(2), the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on the Budgetary System; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to the Law on Obligation Social Insurance; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law of the Republic of Administrative Taxes; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Taxation and the Proposal for a Law on the write-off of interest on the performance of taxes and contributions to compulsory social security. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-03-05-0.u15446	I'm withdrawing the motion to unite the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-03-05-0.u15447	Thank you. National MP Nada Kolundzija, pursuant to Article 90(3) and Article 140(2) and Article 149a paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out on the proposals for a law on points 6 to 16 of the proposed agenda. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-03-05-0.u15448	I'm withdrawing the motion to unite the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-03-05-0.u15449	National MP Nada Kolundzija, pursuant to Article 90(3) and Article 140(2) and Article 149a paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out on the proposals for a law on points 17 to 34 of the proposed agenda. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-03-05-0.u15450	I'm withdrawing the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-03-05-0.u15451	Proposals for changing the order of consideration of agenda points. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, in accordance with Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia in relations with international organisations, in particular the European Union, which, on the proposal of the 81th National MP of the SRS Group, was placed on the agenda of the session, by emergency procedure, considered as the first item of the agenda of this session. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I put this proposal to the vote. Mr. Nikolic, you'll get the word, according to the Rules of Procedure, when we determine these procedural things, it's true, by Article 100, you get the word when we determine all the procedural things. No problem at all, I'll give you my word, of course. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 132, against 92, five of the 229 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Member of the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, pursuant to Article 90(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it proposed that the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, which it submitted to the Government's proposal, be put on the agenda of the session under emergency procedure, be considered as the 6th item of the agenda of this session. I'm putting this motion to the vote. The vote was 126, not 103, of the 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, a proposal to extend the agenda, proposals for a merger of discussions and proposals for changing the order of examination of points, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. The vote was 139, against 9, not 82, out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, in general. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia in relations with international organisations, especially the European Union, which was submitted by 81 MPs, 2. Proposal for a law on the budgetary system, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, submitted by the Government, 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, submitted by the Government, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government, 7. A proposal to write off interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, submitted by the Government, 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes submitted by the Government, 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the regulation of former USSR obligations under accounts related to trade between the former USSR and the former SFRJ, which was submitted by the Government, 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for Project Clinical Centres/A, which was submitted by the Government, 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Gazel Bridge Rehabilitation", which was submitted by the Government, 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank Road Rehabilitation and Bridges B-2, which was submitted by the Government, 13. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ('Addditional financing of the Transport Reconstruction Project') between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 14. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ('Addditional financing of the Rehabilitation and Disposal System Project') between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 15. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (the Regional Development of Bora Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Funding Agreement (the Regional Development of Bora Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Association for Development, which was submitted by the Government, 17. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ('Addditional financing of the Energy Efficiency Project for Serbia'') between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 18. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement('Addditional financing of the energy efficiency project for Serbia'') between the Republic of Serbia and the International Development Association, which was submitted by the Government, 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel on Trade and Economic Co-operation, which was submitted by the Government, 20. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, which was submitted by the Government, 21. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the State of Israel on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports submitted by the Government, 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the mutual travel of citizens submitted by the Government, 23. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports submitted by the Government, 24. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the opening of the Petacinci border crossing (Republic of Serbia) – Bank (Republic of Bulgaria), which was submitted by the Government, 25. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the opening of the border crossing of Novo Korito (Republic of Serbia) – Salas (Republic of Bulgaria), which was submitted by the Government, 26. Proposal for a law attesting the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the renewal, marking and maintenance of the border line and border markings at the common state border, submitted by the Government, 27. Proposal for a law confirming the Supplemental Protocol under the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949 on the adoption of an additional sign of recognition (Protocol III), submitted by the Government, 28. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Slovak Republic on co-operation in the area of defence, which was submitted by the Government, 29. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the Area of Defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, which was submitted by the Government, 30. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Variety of Cultural Expressions, submitted by the Government, 31. Proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on Cross-border Television, submitted by the Government, 32. Proposal for a Law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention No 187 on the Promotional Framework for Safety and Health at Work, submitted by the Government, 33. Proposal for a law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention 167 on the Security and Health of Construction, which was submitted by the Government, 34. Proposal for a law confirming the International Convention against Doping in Sports, submitted by the Government, 35. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Accessibility of Information, the participation of the public in decision-making and the right to legal protection in environmental matters, which was submitted by the Government, 36. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Mergering of Certain Rules for International Air Transport by the Government, 37. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personality Data, submitted by the Government, 38. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (“Process of Agricultural Reform in Transition”) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 39. Proposal for a law confirming a grant agreement from the Global Environment Fund (“Programme Reform Project in Transition”) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as the Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund, which was submitted by the Government. I ask the National Assembly's services to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda for the sitting and to hand it over to the MPs. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Mr. Nikolic, I'll give you my word now, just to clarify one thing. We always wait for the procedural things to end and then you get a word in the Rules of Procedure, that's always the case, that's how it is now. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a RESOLUATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA ON THE PROTECTION OF THE TERRITORIAL INTEGRITARY OF SERBIA IN Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-03-05-0.u15452	It's democracy, because it says here he needs to give me his word 15 minutes ago. Why are you yellows drilling so much? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Rule 225(1), the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. I now inform you that in the break, the President of the National Assembly has informed me that this is the way this session is going to go, and that he will now interrupt the session of the National Assembly because the government has not delivered an opinion on the motion for a resolution, which has been tabled by a group of 81 members of the SRS. In this regard, I need to know whether, under Rule 137, the President of the National Assembly has delivered the motion for a resolution to the Government, and I need an opinion on Article 139(5), which says: "If the committees in charge do not deliver reports, or the Government has an opinion on the draft law, the bill will also be considered without these reports, or opinions." On the basis of Article 160, the procedure for the adoption of the resolution shall apply the procedure for the adoption of the law. Now I ask you, why do you prolong agony and confusion in the media, in the public of Serbia, why among Serbian citizens? One part of the government says that this resolution is absolutely in line with the Constitution and resolutions of the National Assembly, the other part of the government says that this resolution is false, and you are doing it "yellow", solely against Serbia's accession to the European Union. That's why I'm asking you to open the debate. I will read you the whole resolution and accept a bet with each of you who manages to prove to the majority in the National Assembly that the resolution is against joining the European Union. One thing I warn you of is that this resolution requires you to respect the Constitution, respect the integrity of Serbia, the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, that you do not negotiate with any international organisation that does not recognise that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. So, to defend Kosovo and Metohija as your presidential candidate said -- both Kosovo and Metohija and the European Union. So, first Kosovo and Metohija, then the European Union. As a man who is likely to have a serious political career, you belong to a serious political party, I give you one piece of advice – do not interrupt this session because we will apply for you to be relieved from the post of National Assembly President. If you respect the principle, I ask you one more thing – do all these government proposals have an urgent opinion of the committee responsible in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? So, Mr. President, please shut up those who have something shaking, who are getting away with something, who are missing something. To react as I have reacted for 18 years when I see that there is another congregation majority, this is not a resolution that creates some majority, this resolution should be voted by the number of MPs who, until now, until it was dense, voted in favour of the resolutions of the National Assembly. Now that it's thick, then we say -- we want to go to Europe, but first we want this mother Serbia, as much as it is, now you're on the wallpaper, Mr. Dulic, it's going to be a mess on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-03-05-0.u15453	Thank you. I'll give you the answers to the questions right away. The moment this resolution entered the assembly procedure, that was February 29th, I referred to the Prime Minister, on the basis of Articles 137 and 161. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to give an opinion, a letter with the text of the Resolution. The government is obliged, in accordance with Article 123(4) of the Constitution, to give opinions on all those laws or proposals of general acts coming from other proposings which, of course, are not Government. Also, our Rules of Procedure defines it in the best possible way. Given that this opinion has not been reached by the Government so far, and given that, regardless of all these business, constitutional and legal obligations we have had so far, given the practice established in at least the last eight months, no session of the Assembly has begun at any point in the agenda until the Government delivers an opinion, including any amendment, I now set a break. We'll continue our work in the government's prepared opinion. The MPs will be informed of the continuation of the work.
