ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment, along with my colleague, Petkovic, to Article 6(1), where it is said that the Republic Public Prosecutor is in the position of the President of the State Council of Prosecutors. I think it would be much more justified for the president of the State's Attorney General to be one of the election members of the assembly, preferably some prosecutor. The state council is an independent authority and it simply needs to be singled out of the prosecution organisation by its nature. The public prosecutor is the public prosecutor of the public prosecutor's office, and accordingly the republican public prosecutor is the holder of the administrative office in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, who represents him as such. The question arises here is it justified that the republican public prosecutor at the same time represents the State's Major Prosecutors and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office? In my opinion, this is about incompatibility of two functions. In addition to the fact that it speaks of the incompatibility of two functions, I think it can cause many other controversial situations. For example, the State's Council of Prosecutors is calling on the president, so it is called by the Republic Public Prosecutor. Article 13 states that the State's chief prosecutor, in addition to a number of other responsibilities, decides on the distance of the Republic Public Prosecutor, and then the question is rightly raised, what happens if the Republic Public Prosecutor, as the president of the State Council of Prosecutors, does not want to call a session to discuss his distance? Are we going to get into a situation then - that the work of that organ will be blocked? For this very reason, this amendment has been tabled, and I believe that we would not come to a situation where we have a blockade of extremely important institutions, that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8696	Mrs. Radeta after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8697	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when we talked about the High Council of the Judiciary, you heard the comments of the MPs of the SRS and there we had quite a number of amendments. Since in the State Council of Prosecutors' Law, the choice of this state bond of prosecutors and its jurisdiction is similar to what is provided for in the Supreme Judicial Council, we have not submitted to this law a large number of amendments, as it is obvious that the Government of Serbia intends to directly influence the work of all judicial authorities, both the work of courts and the work of prosecutors. We stressed that there is also now a number of judges and prosecutors who, unfortunately, are under the direct authority of some members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and who decide according to the wishes of those members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and some tycoons in Serbia. We don't think that's going to help improve the situation in the area of justice. We all agreed that the situation in the judiciary is not good and that this is a major problem in Serbia, as such a problem, in fact, a poor situation in the judiciary, would be a problem in every normal state. As long as we don't have a stable judiciary, as long as we don't have independent prosecutors and independent courts and judges, we won't be able to take ourselves seriously, first of all, in the face of corruption and crime. As long as the state prosecutor or prosecutors listen to orders from the government of the Republic of Serbia, the judges too, we cannot count on cases such as Bojan Krist, Mladjan Dinkic, Djelic and others. It is not good for the authorities to talk about this only for the media and to realize that the situation in the judiciary is not good, and who is responsible after eight years of DOS rule - of course we do not have an answer. There are always talk of some lagging problems from some past times, but a long time has passed and many judges, many prosecutors, have been appointed in the meantime. Unfortunately, a large number of them, based solely on the party's orientation, which is also very bad, and that we write in laws that a legal function holder cannot be someone who is a party official or who is party-determined, of course has nothing to do with reality. We also know of cases of a Constitutional Court judge who is a senior official of the DS, today the minister, on behalf of the DS in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ciplic; we also know of the President of the Constitutional Court of the G 17 Plus Party, and one and the other have tried, during the time they performed those functions, to hide their party membership. But, of course, they didn't hide it before and after. Otherwise, we advocate and keep telling you that we should not hide behind the fact that someone should not be a member of a political party, because there is no reason for us, in a certain way, to mark people who are party-determined, but it is important that they all work in accordance with the law, first and foremost in accordance with the Constitution, and that those who do not have that jurisdiction do not interfere with the work of those who should be independent, or independent. I must give you an example of the attempt or insistence of Dragan Gilas to introduce a forced administration in the municipality of Zemun. In the municipality of Zemun, we told you about it, there were two decisions, two different bigger ones, decisions of a conflicting character. Meanwhile, another complaint has emerged from one of the former council members. The complaint was focused on the alleged fact that the Municipal Election Commission was incomplete, that it had not had a majority in its decision-making process. The district court found that this was not true and that the decisions of the municipal electoral commission and the beliefs issued to the new committees were absolutely in accordance with the law. Meanwhile, the council of the Zemun Assembly, Stevo Dragisic, sent a complaint to the District Court and asked the district court to determine the mandates of newly elected committees because the municipality assembly missed it. When they saw that they had to act according to the appeal, because there is no single legal option to do the opposite of that, then the dance began without interruption from the District Court. Of course, everything under the conductor stick of Dragan Gilas. The appeal was filed Thursday, so it's been five days, and the deadline for resolution in the county court was 48 hours. Three times they asked the municipality to declare, to supplement the documentation. Imagine, for the first time, they sought, since the municipality, of course, as in all cases, not only in the municipality of Zemun, but in general, was represented by the public defender and he submitted the documentation and the answer to the appeal, or they admitted the allegations, but the court asked for someone else to do so, because the defender, they say, is not in charge of it. So then the president of the municipality did the same thing, and then they asked for another addition yesterday, and for each addition, they asked for a two-hour period, so that what they were looking for in addition to handing it over to the office of the court. It's all respected, every deadline is respected, they're still silent. It's obvious the administration's silence is at work. Of course there will be criminal charges and proceedings at the Supreme Court, but we just want to point out how it works on the authorities of the judiciary. Madam Minister, it would be good, therefore, to accept the amendment of counterpart Milice Radovic and counterpart Miroslav Petkovic, who refers to article 6 and above article 6 is the title "President of the State Council", and Article 1 says that the republican public prosecutor is in the position of the president of the State Council. You have not accepted this amendment with very interesting reasons, such as all the arguments that come from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we keep telling you, if you don't want to accept the amendment, then try not to affect the intelligence of the MPs, but that the government's arguments are such that they can at least make themselves sound. You say - the provision that the republican public prosecutor, who is otherwise a member of the State Council by position, the President of the State Council, is not affecting the independence of the State Council. How did you conclude this or who concluded this, this is really worth a serious analysis? Next, you say - other than that, Article 7. The bill stipulates that the State Council has a deputy president, who is elected by the state council and deputy prosecutors, election members of the State Council, elected and resolved by the State Council. What does this have to do with the amendment? You've mixed up grandmothers and frogs, tried to give some explanation that would make sense, but you have to admit that this argument really doesn't make any sense, that it's irresponsible and irresponsible. You could have said very nicely -- we in the Government of the Republic of Serbia think the president of the State Council of Prosecutors should be a republican public prosecutor. We intend to set up a republican public prosecutor one day, since we must, for the sake of the public, mention that Serbia has long been without a republican public prosecutor, because the one who has performed the post has been the performer of office for almost two years now, I don't know exactly. Someone here said the other day, we really have half the state in V.D. condition. It is truly amazing that, in addition to everything that is happening in the state, in addition to all the criminal affairs that have been discovered and discovered on a daily basis, above all, at the top of the government, in addition to the crime that is happening in this House, we do not have a state prosecutor and we can really wonder who we can even address for the protection of certain rights, i.e. to the initiation of a procedure related, first of all, to corruption and crime. Well, Krasic said yesterday, when he spoke about the High Council of the Judiciary, who's actually going to be the one who's going to cheer and dress in the area of the judiciary -- the minister of justice, the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee and, in this case, a more republican public prosecutor. Where's the objectivity, where's the protection of the public prosecutor's independence, where's the protection of the independence of judicial functions? Of course, you didn't intend to do it, so you're proposing laws like this, full of mouths of praise and stories about how these laws are going to lead to, I don't know, judicial reform. We're telling you that it won't be, that the same thing as the judge and this bill on the State Council of Prosecutors actually provides for only one sharp struggle of the executive authority with the judiciary. And this struggle in the sense that you intend to carry out the lustration, that you intend to put all judges and prosecutors on ice and then choose those who will meet and who are ready to fulfil the orders of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of individual tycoons in the Republic of Serbia. You already know about some judges and prosecutors who have made themselves available to you, who are working now, not on behalf of the people, but on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of Boris Tadic. We want to draw attention to the public, above all, that the SRS is strictly opposed to this kind of lustration under the company of some kind of reform in the area of justice. Everyone knows, you get such messages from both the judge and the prosecutors, and from the judicial and prosecutorial organizations. It is clear to all what the government of the Republic of Serbia intends to do, what Boris Tadic intends to do. The application of these laws will mean only strengthening the dictatorial authority in Serbia, which, unfortunately, is present, as much as you smile at this information, you know it is. But it would be good if you passed laws, to make sure that the laws are not passed for single use, that the laws are not passed to be applied only as long as you are in power. You must make sure that laws are passed for both the government and the opposition, i.e. laws are passed in the interests of Serbian citizens, in order to protect the interests and rights of Serbian citizens. What you're doing really has nothing to do with it. You're not too late. It is good that Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic announced the other day, but it is not good that she did it through the newspapers, she should have informed us, that she might interrupt the session before the debate in particular on this set of judicial authorities, and it seems that at this point, it would be best. In the meantime, the government might change its mind and propose serious laws that would really mean judicial reform and that would really mean justice in the service of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8698	No information went public without having been told before to the heads of the parliamentary groups. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Here you go, Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8699	I also submitted an amendment to Article 13, which I asked for the 12th indent to be deleted. I am of the opinion that the state's chief prosecutor should not appoint an official of the Republic Public Prosecutor's office, since it has no authority to elect public prosecutors, so by the nature of its existence it should not have the capacity to appoint an official of the Republic Public Prosecutor's office. The Republic Public Prosecutor and Public Prosecutors are elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, and from a list established by the State's Major Prosecutors. That's why I think it would be more appropriate to v.d. The Republic's Public Prosecutor shall elect either the Government or that the job is already under way, the first deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Here is a very interesting insistence on the independence of the prosecutor's office from the executive and legislative authorities, which goes to the point where it is an attempt to introduce independence of the prosecutor's office. Public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors cannot be independent of their duties. There's a difference between a prosecutor and a judge here. The judge is independent in doing his job, in making decisions, and the public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor cannot be independent in doing their jobs. The proposal also says that a republican public prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly. The question arises - what happens in the situation if the National Assembly does not elect a public prosecutor, or does not resolve it, as we had the case with Mr Jankovic, who has since December 2005, met the pension condition, but was resolved only in July 2007. Or because he hasn't met in a long time, he won't be able to discuss this issue? Is that enough signal for the State's Major Prosecutors to post a V.D. immediately? a republican public prosecutor? Will we still have the situation we have now, da v.d. The republican public prosecutor has been performing that duty for almost two years? I think it would be much more justified that the business of V.D. a republican public prosecutor, at a time when a republican public prosecutor is unable to carry out that duty, is serving as his first deputy, who already exists at that very moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8700	We thank Mrs. Radovic. Mr. Zoran Krasic, by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8701	Due to the elementary correctness, I must conclude that Susana Grubjesic has come to the Assembly, Hope is currently absent. But what good is hope without faith. Now, Mr. Batic, let's talk about this amendment. He refers to Article 13. Proposal for a law where the extended jurisdiction of the State Council of Prosecutors has been given. It goes beyond the framework prescribed in Article 164. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I have to draw attention to the legislator to make it easy for you to accept some amendments, but in this way you show that you are not interested in the solutions that exist in this bill, you are interested in transitional and final provisions. It's clear to everyone when it comes to the High Court's advice, but you're demonstrating it here as well. Again, the problem is that we have members of the State Council of Prosecutors in office, the minister, the chairman of the Justice Committee, currently Mrs Malovic, Bosko Ristic, may God help us, both in the judiciary and in the prosecution. I think they're incompatible functions. There's some conflict of interest. If you were at the High Council of the Judiciary and could accept the solution that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, by office, and the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, you couldn't do that with the State Council of Prosecutors. Why? Because the position of the Republic Public Prosecutor and the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is not the same. It differs in the area in which the office of the prosecution and the judiciary differs. We have independence and independence in the judiciary, and we have only independence in the prosecution, and we have no independence. Let me remind you, in the Constitution, Article 158 of Position 1 - The Republic Public Prosecutor shall exercise the jurisdiction of the Public Prosecutor's Office under the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic's public prosecutor, as an in-house body, is formally legally responsible for everything in the jurisdiction of the republic and all prosecutors, because it is within the framework of the law and obligations of the Republic of Serbia. That kind of responsibility is not the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. You could have put him in a position to be president of the High Council of the Judiciary, and you couldn't. Why? Then he's a planetary force, then he's sovereign. What Boris Tadic? What Schutanian? Just to let you know, you're from the DS, the Sutanovac is leaving. Probably retired. Tadic realized that he took 40 federal salaries and could no longer work in the state administration. He finally found out that he was raising that ramp in the parking lot of JUL when his nickname was Shuki. A radio man in the parking lot of JUL and raised the ramp to get the car in, to park. Mira Markovic when he gets in the car, he lifts the ramp, she enters, he says, "Good afternoon, put down the ramp." It's DS, they're Democrats. What do you wonder now, like you don't know? I have to keep you posted. The public doesn't need to know. I can explain these things to you in the hallway. There's really a question here. The militia has noticed this well. It seeks an amendment to delete a single indent that regulates jurisdiction. It has been said here that the State's Chief Prosecutor is setting up an acting member of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. I think it's easy to go on these fictitious quasi functions v.d., the performer of duty and the performer of duty. The question arises - why is there a deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor? Isn't the situation, God forbid, that the Republic Public Prosecutor dies, so someone needs to take over his office, it's supposed to be one of the deputies, the oldest or someone he's ever appointed, and so on, always as the first deputy. You, when you put in as an institution of acting, then you're relatively permanent in thinking of maintaining that condition. We've been in a state for two years now, and it seems to me that we have an acting member of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. He's just hiding a poor guy, since UBPOK has a recorded conversation between him and a lawyer from Kragujevec when they were hooking up. That's not true. Believe it or not, that's your problem, but when I say it, make sure it's true, because I'd be ashamed to lie. When you hear something I say, make sure it's not a lie. I don't need to convince you. Whether you believe it or not, it's your emotional state. We object at all to the existence of such a category as the performer of duty. Here, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because I know that they are monitoring this transmission and every day more and more citizens are monitoring this transmission, and this transmission should be monitored, because this is the only window to find out what is happening to Serbia, and there may be conflicting opinions here, but from that conflict of contradiction, the truth has to come out. I would draw attention to the public by which criteria we could choose a republican public prosecutor. I'm giving you one original solution. For a republican public prosecutor, in this first term after this, we can choose a prosecutor who solves a situation. We can run a test to get all the candidates for the republican public prosecutor to pass one test, like when they pass a judicial exam, like when they take a written part of an exam. There's no need to raise questions. I'll read the question, and they need to deal with the situation legally. Whoever solves the situation in accordance with the Constitution and the existing laws means that it meets the conditions to be a republican public prosecutor. All candidates for the republican public prosecutor, please, paper and pen in your hand and write a question. Whoever gives the right answer has proven to meet all the criteria, and morality, and expertise and work experience, everything. Here's an example -- we had parliamentary elections a few months ago, held on 11 May. Then DS funded its election campaign in one way. I expect the President of the National Assembly to interpret this as a question and provide information on this to all MPs. A law that regulates the financing of political parties and election campaigns is the Law on the financing of political parties. I can doubt it or as Mrs. Malovic says, I don't believe it, I can doubt it, I'm allowed. Why am I allowed? Because I don't have official data. When the elections were over, all the list applicants submitted financial reports on the campaign. Now we have a situation that some political parties who have shown some data in the financial report are getting bills today to pay the costs of the TV campaign, newspapers and so on. I took the DS example, because if she's the richest, the most she has, the most she's represented, she spent the most money on the election campaign. I don't doubt it because I don't have the information. Yeah, and now there's some bills coming in to pay the election campaign. The award-winning question, which can be a candidate for a republican public prosecutor, is from the DS's point of view. Once the DS is resolved, then this second is solved. All these others are petty. Mrs. Malovic, pay attention. There is a Law on the financing of political parties, Article 3. He says-- kind of means. Maybe you didn't know, this law in your party was being led by someone else, but pay attention. Whom the snake burns and the lizard fears. And we had one Smokey, so he turned us black. What does Article 3 say? "The funds for funding activities under Article 2 of this law can be obtained from public and private sources, in accordance with this law." Item 2: 'The public sources within the meaning of this law make up the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the units of territorial autonomy and the budget of the units of local self-government, approved to finance the regular work of the political party and the cost of the election campaign. ''Stage 3: ''Special sources within the meaning of this law are: membership fees, contributions from legal and natural persons, revenues from the political party's promotional activities, revenues from the political party's assets and legislation. ''Mrs Malovic, private sources, just to count, means, membership fees, contributions from legal and natural persons, they are limited by law, revenues from promotional activities of political parties, revenues from political party property and legislation. Is there a possibility in this provision that the political party will take credit? Candidates for the republican public prosecutor, please bear in mind, this answer will depend on who will be the republican public prosecutor. Is there any possibility on the basis of this law to take credit from a foreign bank? What's the short-term situation, what's the situation with long-term loans? Mrs. Malovic, I'm telling you this for a number of reasons. This reason is tied to the prosecutor, and for another reason, I am infinitely grateful to the powers of the Bank of Intes and to the power of attorney Tomislav Nikolic. They gave answers to the lawsuits and confessed to everything. All they've admitted is that there's only one prosecutor left to arrest, Mrs. Malovic. I know that Mrs. Djukic will be difficult, since she made this party, after Tadic threw her out first, to defend herself with silence, when it comes to the constitution, when it comes to the law. And the SRS is only looking for its 78 seats that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have given it. Of course, in order to solve this problem, we need to look at the situation in the DS, how she financed the election campaign, how much she spent out of the budget, how many private sources, how much credit she was taking, do the DS campaign bills come in today, for printing, for emissions, for marketing agencies, and so on? My people, as soon as you see a man proud of having a 1,000-euro suit, wearing 500-euro shoes, showering three times a day, every chance he wants to take a child into his arms to show himself as a cultural, fair, loyal, and here comes the bills. Poor Smokey doesn't know what hit him. Smokey, buy a 94-year-old world, and you'll see who Smokey is. To solve this problem, in order for Serbian citizens to understand, the location of this organised crime lies in specific places. I've got a list of who's on who's to whom. We need to check the DS first, because it protects crime in this country. Since January 25th, 2001, crime has simply exploded in Serbia, and then there has been primitiveism in Serbia, a vote from Bodrum, Thessaloniki, arrest... (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. I'm sorry, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8702	Mr Delic, Vice-President of the Assembly, and then Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8703	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I will speak of a matter which yesterday is the principles of our fellow MPs from the SRS, namely Mr Momo Markovic. Through this question, I just want you all to understand the importance of the prosecution and how important it is for every country. Mr. Markovic presented problems yesterday related to the Civil Aviation Directorate and the Aviation Control Agency. Everything Mr. Markovic said is true, there are even data that are much more difficult when it comes to criminal activities in these organizations that are within the jurisdiction of the state. However, there is a much more difficult problem there. Last month, 17th. 11 to 21.11 Eurocontrol carried out an audit report in our Civil Aviation Directorate. Here, that's the report in Serbian, that's the report in English. The findings, gentlemen, are catastrophic. This report showed that the Civil Aviation Directorate has not satisfied all 29 controlled elements. Of these 29 controlled elements, one is related to us, i.e. the Serbian Parliament and civil aviation law, which has not yet been brought in, and the proposal for a ovacone has existed since 2003. If the prosecution, UBPOK, MUP, would like to investigate this situation, they could also come up with relevant facts why this law has not been found in the assembly procedure so far. During Eurocontrol, he found that the Civil Aviation Directorate has not been overseeing the Aviation Control Agency since August 2007. This conclusion of the Eurocontrol could result in the withdrawal of air traffic control rights, i.e. air navigation, the declaration of the sky to Serbia insecure for the transit of commercial aircraft and the withdrawal of authorisation for the issue of European flight permits. Gentlemen, you know that every country has its sovereignty, sovereignty on earth, on water, underwater, in the air. These days, the chief of staff and the president of the state are talking about making efforts to carry out a revision of the Kumanovo Agreement, which would restore state sovereignty over a narrow belt in the Land Area Security. But what is it, gentlemen, compared to this, when we are in danger of losing sovereignty over the entire airspace of our country? This is an alarming situation, where all the state authorities need to enter these two institutions and take measures to resuscitate the situation that, according to this report, is catastrophic. Serbia's sky takes about 2,000 flights a day, for which it receives about 70m euros a year from service taxis. These days you could have been in the press when it came to the high salaries of people at the agency to see that they said they weren't on the budget. However, gentlemen, the airspace is not the property of that agency, the airspace is a state resource. Therefore, the state resources must be exploited by the state. The money flows at the disposal of the Flight Control Agency are out of state control and hidden from the eyes of the public. Although it does not operate on a profit basis, the very fact that there is no control of large cash flows raises suspicion. In all other countries, this money is used only by the agency and the directorate, in these countries it is clearly decided that these 2,000 planes, which fly across our country every day, from this overpass tax one large portion is allocated for environmental taxes, because the planes are doing air pollution. Also, in these countries, one part is allocated to the agriculture ministry, in order to pay for damages from the city in situations where anti-building defences due to air corridors cannot protect agricultural land or simply to ensure through the agriculture ministry that farmers, fruit farmers get the anti-building network. That's how it's done in other countries. From these taxis in all countries, there is one part of the fund for liability in case of an accident. Now, gentlemen, let me remind you of a great accident that happened over the territory of SFRY in 1976, more specifically over Vrbovac near Zagreb, when 350 people died in the crash "Britiš erveiza" and "Adrija erveiza". International control has established that the mistake has been made by the district flight control of Zagreb. Procedures before international courts on private lawsuits have not been completed yet, but damage claims are about $600m. You know, as you read in the paper last year, Libya pays compensation to passengers who died at Lokbury's. So this agency and the directorate of this money, which they view as their private property, would have to single out into that fund, that the state doesn't have to be responsible for every failure made by the agency. The key problem in this area, gentlemen, is the lack of that law. Here yesterday, Mr. Moma Markovic pointed out that a man we saw here in the Assembly is now in the Civil Aviation Directorate. This is former secretary of the Legislative Secretariat, Mr Zoran Balinovac. His obstruction, along with the current director of the Civil Aviation Directorate, Mr. Mokovic, has just led to different ways of obstructing the law that is extremely important does not come here to the Assembly. What could we show Eurocontrol? We showed them the 98 law, and there's no directorate or agency in that law. We've shown that we're an unserious state. I know we're here, the gentlemen show, and the non-serious assembly, but once it should stop. Mr. Balinovac was admitted to a non-existent place, without a public competition, without any rules on the systemization of jobs. But he's not the only one, 40 more have been admitted in the last two years. Since Mr. Moma Markovic has brought up a lot of problems, but here, gentlemen, one problem from which you will see that this airport and that Kristo are just one drop in the sea of crime that exists today in Serbia. International Relations Adviser of the Civil Aviation Directorate, not to appoint the lady or missus now, she is a relative of Mokovic's wife, you know that Mokovic is director of the Directorate, she was admitted during the previous director of Mokovic's emergency, without a college, to a place where the university is one of the necessary conditions. And to complete college, she was sent to Vienna, with a scholarship of 30,000 euros, monthly charges for foreign diaries and other expenses, so that she costs the country another 7,000 euros per month. So, the international relations adviser costs this country over 100,000 euros annually. Gentlemen, you can't find such a thing anymore in any country in the world. Next, I just wanted to warn you that BIA has a role to play in this case. Serious tendencies exist in the Directorate and Civil Aviation Agency for others' interests, interests of some former Yugoslav republics. Because how to justify that in one of the most important places in the Agency and the Directorate, there was a man who represented Croatia and was its citizen by 2005 in Eurocontrol. How do we explain the fact that we lost 60 kilometers of airspace that we controlled over Croatia? How do we explain the fact that we lost lower airspace above BiH? How do you explain the fact that we lost air space control over KIM territory and that it belonged to an agency from Iceland? How do we explain the fact that during the debate on corridors, Serbia, which has so far had favourable corridors along the long axis, gets corridors on that shorter axis, which usually means less money and less taxes, and that Croatia gets everything that suits it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8704	Ambassador Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8705	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, the dignity of the National Assembly, because we, MPs, must think and always say the same, and here for the Assembly speaker, or when we meet somewhere else, on the street with citizens, or when we sit at a table to talk to foreign representatives, with various delegations or institutions, or when we go to Strasbourg, to NATO, anywhere. However, one gentleman who had been behind this speaker before me, speaking of a crime, although he should not speak of crime, because he himself did a criminally and unfairly, immorally, first of all, not return the mandate that the SRS won in the previous elections, but usurped for himself, I want to ask one question: since he expressed great concern for KIM, whether he or the president of his newly created party "take everything he gives you", he also spoke to the French ambassador, both the Czech ambassador and the representative of the European Commission. In the press, all I could read was that they said that Serbia had to move forward. But, which Serbia, whether Serbia with KIM or Precumenovska Serbia, could not read anything else in that paper. So much for that concern. This morning I read again in the paper the opinion of various analysts that the DS now has a comfortable position in parliament, that the government is stable because there is a reserve in the LDP, a reserve in the Progressives, perhaps even in the People's Republics, but they say it's unfortunate that there is some government reconstruction by either entering the government or supporting it as a minority because the Democrats still make sure that the government does not lose its legitimacy. It is fair on their part, regardless of what they obviously need, which is what the reserve is always needed because the thin majority, again they take care to preserve the legitimacy of that government, so when they care so much about the government, here I call on the DS to deal with the legitimacy of this assembly, that is to deal with the mandates of the SRS that have been kidnapped, although in previous elections the parties, and not us as individuals, won 78 mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8706	There's no breach of Article 104. People's MP Milan Dimitrijevic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8707	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I want to speak in accordance with Article 226. It seems to me that in this country Serbia, the dreary news is catching up with each other. Anyone who opened the daily "Blic" on the second and third pages today had to see a title that looks like a man has to wonder what kind of state we live in. The article's title, therefore, is that 700,000 people are at risk due to lack of money in the budget, being threatened by not being provided with health insurance. So someone has to explain it. The Minister of Health must come to the Assembly to explain that fact. I'll remind you of Mr. Prime Minister's exposés. One of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia will be strengthening social responsibility towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in order to improve the conditions of life and the work of all Serbian citizens, and especially the most vulnerable categories of the population. The government's goal is for the poorest populations to participate in the results of economic progress in the coming years. We want to build a society where all citizens will have a chance of progress on the social scale. In such a society, free higher education will be available to all hardworking students and students. Free healthcare is guaranteed to all poor citizens and all citizens of Serbia will be protected from extreme poverty. This isn't about 70 people, 700 people, it's about 700,000 people. What kind of statement is this? Who's going to explain this? In the budget rebalancing, we've shown you some things, but it doesn't seem to have reached the Secretary of Finance's brain. Is it possible that there are different views in the government, that one thinks the minister of health, the other thinks the Prime Minister, and the third thinks a fourth minister? What kind of government is that where different opinions exist? How is it possible for certain media to discuss the total amount of budget, and that MPs, or at least MPs of the opposition, have no knowledge of it? Key question: where's the budget? We've been asking where the budget is for a month? Here's how the budget is being prepared -- 700,000 people in Serbia are at risk. They won't be able to heal because they're on their own. Is this the Socially Responsible Government? Is that a concern for the people and the state? Who's gonna come here and explain? What kind of writing is that in that paper? Is that true? I demand that the health minister immediately come to the Assembly and explain his statement that 700,000 people will be threatened by a lack of money in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8708	On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice and Administration tabled an amendment to Article 14. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister, Mrs. Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8709	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice, who prepared these laws, we accept this amendment, given that a similar amendment has been adopted at the proposal for a law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We also believe that the sessions and the State Council of the Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary should be public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8710	The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the amendment submitted by a colleague should be accepted in any case, given that many issues are not well regulated by this proposal, and some are contrary to the provisions of the Constitution. I therefore believe that this amendment should be accepted. What I wanted in particular to point out and to point out that the first thing to do is to be done, when it comes to the judiciary and when it comes to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if it needs to be changed, it should first be changed in relation to the holders of judicial functions. You have provisions in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that regulate the independence and impartiality of the judges, but you do not have independence in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that this norm is entered into our Constitution, the independence of the prosecution or prosecutors and their deputies, and they perform a judicial function. There are no letters in this constitution about the public prosecutor's office being independent. To be impartial, there's not a single letter. It's about both of them performing a judicial function. If for whatever reason it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Constitution and to implement the amendments in the Constitution of Serbia, it is exactly the part that regulates the rights, obligations, organisation, seats and office, independence of the judiciary, including courts and prosecutors. I believe this was a major failure when the Constitution was brought in. With that in mind, the failure has been done great by introducing us in this way the choice of judges, and the choice of prosecutors and their deputies past parliament, especially when it comes to people who work in court, then, when it comes to deputy public prosecutors. Provisions concerning transitional and final provisions, both in relation to the law on courts and judges and to the State's major prosecutors and the work of the prosecution in general, are not good. The SRS believes it is a better solution for judicial officials to propose and choose exclusively in parliament, where MPs should make a decision to whom the state will entrust judicial office in the Republic of Serbia. You've seen that he's training hard now when it comes to public prosecutors. How do you train that toughness? You can tell by the way you choose. You can tell by the way you conduct the disciplinary procedure. I would like to draw particular attention to Ms. Justice that that amendment concerning a provision that restricts the progress of the Deputy Prosecutors and Prosecutors, is a better solution that you have proposed than was proposed by that amendment. Why? We do not come here to apply the basic principles of individual responsibility and individual sanctions. Individualization of sanctions against the person who committed the sanctions. It may happen to be for some justified reasons, and who will appreciate these justifiable reasons? He'll appreciate the justified reasons for his boss. There's a problem. Who's setting up the boss? The problem is that it will be appointed by the executive authorities and proposed. However, both in the election of judges and in the election of prosecutors, as it is in parallel law, Members of Parliament, the Committee of Justice, parliament and the minister of justice have exclusive authority. In Germany, the minister of justice proposes to appoint and elect judges, with a committee of Assembly, Bundestaga. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that we have this regulation that proposes, it is very problematic, it will in practice have catastrophic consequences. Here's to remind you of a case that happened the other day, the Zlatarska novine, Nova Varosh. He says - Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will not appoint him, he gathered today in Novi Varosa all the authorities of local self-government, education, health, police, prosecution and court, and gave them a working meeting and gave them a lecture, and I say he gave them tasks. I understand that the police minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, has left and visited a police station in Novi Varosha. First of all, he's convinced of the premises and the facility where the police are working. He was convinced of the percentage of the litigation of crimes with an unknown perpetrator, the percentage of the criminal charges filed and the charges relating to economic crime. I understand that the minister has asked why the citizens of Jasenov and Mocioc of Kokino Brod cannot get asphalt for three kilometers, which shortens 45 km for the citizens of Jasen, Bela Reka, Ljubiš, Ivanjica, Kokino Brod, Housern and not to list Negbina, Ojkovica, where the so-called path should pass. Old Vlah. So why didn't he round up the tolls and say, "I'm looking for a government investment program to give money for those three kilometers, to pave the way"? He's in charge now, Mrkonjic. Here, now one message to Mr. Mrkonjic to do it as he did in the area of the Rooster, the bypass before the deadline, but before the Drum of the Stream. There's a problem. But now he's done it before the Flood of the Stream. What will the Prime Minister schedule for a meeting, which is not a resolute minister of justice. That Ms. Justice Minister Malovic had scheduled a meeting at the Municipality Court in Novi Varoša, held a meeting with judges and asked what percentages of cases have been resolved 20 years ago. How many judges, further, in what conditions do these people work, what should be done for the judiciary, both the law enforcement authority, so that both the prosecution and the municipal court are organized to be in the position of citizens? The minister also dared to call the prosecutor to be the prosecutor at the meeting, because without the prosecutor, there is no work to be done. Now we come to our field when it comes to prosecutors. Where did the minister, the other minister with no portfolio, people? He doesn't have any portfolio in the government of the Republic of Serbia. What he wasn't interested in is why the people of the cave don't have water, why a large number of villages go to a tap whose water is polluted, have nowhere to be provided with water for 10 km. So what that minister didn't ensure was that the citizens of Peshter, Novi Varoshi, Pryboa, Prepolje, what his business is, what the government needs to do to make life easier for the citizens. There is nothing to do if such a minister goes to Nova Varosh and keeps one false promise, and many are in favour and in this assembly they promise citizens a better life. You know what they promise? Let the citizens know, those who make such promises, that the forks will taste milk, that is what awaits our citizens, in what situation Serbia today is in. So, when it comes to the public prosecutor's office on the case, we see that the executive authority is in control and the executive authority will play a crucial role in the election and in the work of the public prosecutors. It's very dangerous. Prosecutors must be independent, according to the SRS, just like the judges. Then we can have a guarantee that we have a fair and fair judiciary, especially the prosecution. I note that there is not a single word, ladies and gentlemen, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that the prosecution can be independent. The abandonment of this provision raises doubts and puts dangers on account of abuses, and if anything needs to be changed in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is that provisions relating to the choice of judicial holders must be amended. That's why I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the choice of holders of judicial functions and justice is important, because you can have bad police, you can have worse education, you can have a bad situation in society by some other segments, but if you don't have a well-organized and independent judiciary, including courts, including prosecutors, then you don't have legal certainty, and whenever you get away from the Constitution, everything is risky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8712	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8713	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, with all their efforts for justice, justice, constitutionality, cannot agree with a few times repeated, in the last few days, with the wish of the MP to remove the lack of a Serbian Constitution that does not mention an independent prosecutor's office. It is truly unacceptable for me to introduce the fourth branch, the independent branch of government, the prosecution. It's impossible to say, fight, even seek amendments to the Constitution to make the prosecution sound independent. Then it should also be fought for the independent police, then everything that needs to be done in accordance with law and law should be declared independent in the Constitution. He can't. The prosecution can't be declared an independent branch, a branch of government or whatever it is you're imagining. It's nowhere in the world. The prosecution is not an independent body, but is under the control of state authorities, citizens. And it provides the prosecutor with autonomy in the decision-making process, to be insecure when he decides, and there have been failures over the past few years, when prosecutors have been charged with criminal charges because they have decided not to act in some cases. The prosecutor has the right to decide whether he will act or not in some case, but Serbian citizens will never have the opportunity to plead on the prosecution as an independent category, an independent branch of government, a fourth branch of government, which neither the theory nor practice, constitutional theory and practice in the world. So we will never advocate that the prosecution be an independent body of government, and that the prosecutors work according to the law, prosecute criminals, hand them over to the authorities, certainly remains the ideal always, I guess, of every political party (in the course of the speech SRS MPs banged into the benches).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8714	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Petar Jojic. You have two minutes left of 15 minutes available to the SRS. You want a replica? You have the right to a replica based on article 101. Here, you can't do both.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8715	Ladies and gentlemen, I would not agree with the predecessor because the UN and its recommendations, the Council of Europe and the international associations of prosecutors are actually looking for it, and they have regulated it in parallel -- that the prosecution should be independent. If the prosecution isn't supposed to be independent, then he can take risks when it comes to criminal proceedings, and whether he's going to make that selection and whether he's going to be pressured or not. I repeat, it has been regulated by international documents, primarily UN recommendations, then the Council of Europe and the International Prosecutors' Association. We feel it is still necessary to make this branch of law independent. This isn't the police and it's okay. Police are doing their other kind of work -- police don't press charges, they don't investigate, they don't represent indictments in court, police don't file legal charges. So the problem is why it is necessary to insist, install and standardise - that the public prosecutor's office be independent. Only in this way can there be objectivity, guarantee and justice in the conduct of criminal proceedings and persecution of perpetrators of criminal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8716	The People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Do you want to use two minutes of time or ask for a word? You want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you get a word based on Article 100(1), so MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 225 and Rule 226 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I request information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the KIM Ministry on negotiations conducted on behalf of the Republic of Serbia by the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army with NATO forces, on an unknown platform and the reasons why such negotiations are being held? I'm asking a question and I'm looking for an answer on this -- when and on what basis is the negotiation platform formed? No state authority can negotiate with representatives of other states without a platform. General Ponoš, chief of staff, what could have been learned from the information funds, has been negotiating with NATO forces in Naples. What is the essence of these negotiations? According to him, it's a change of the Kumanovo Agreement. What's behind all this? The erasure of the provisions in the Kumanovo Agreement is to return 1,000 soldiers and police officers to Kosovo and Metohija, as agreed and envisaged. Unfortunately, the Serbian side has done nothing to bring 1,000 police officers back to the KIM-Albania border, not to return, but to take the positions they took before 99. This is a direct violation of the Constitution. The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of KIM and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is inferior. Individuals took powers that didn't belong to them. Not the Chief of Staff to discuss, to negotiate the most vital issues of this country. The point of these negotiations is again - fraud. This is the way we want to delete the provisions on the return of our soldiers and police officers. On the other hand, allow infiltration of the forces of Eulex, which has already begun since these days. The third most devastating thing is that, in fact, this is the indirect intrusion of Ahtisaari's plan and application of Ahtisaari's plan. What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia do? What do the departments in charge do - nothing? We will experience that, as some of the officials from the autonomous province are already doing, we will be having negotiations with certain political factors in the EU, we will experience a situation where the presidents of the municipalities, the directors of the companies lead foreign policy, negotiate, negotiate, sign, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8718	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. National MP, your parliamentary group has 13 minutes at their disposal. You're answering the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8719	I'll use very little time. I don't want to compromise on Mr. Jojic's good intentions. I'm just pointing to one termological difference. So neither the UN nor the Council of Europe is talking about independence, but about the independence of the prosecutor's office. In Serbia, independence rather than the independence of the prosecutor's office should be ensured. It's not just a termological difference. It could be said that we want the same thing, but we need to apply proper terminology. The D.A.'s office can't be independent, but it can be independent. You know how prosecutors and special prosecutors are placed in the world. When someone wants to fight crime at his disposal, it is also such a measure to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate a particular piece, which I recommend to the future authorities now regarding this criminal group G17 plus to do as soon as possible. If it spreads to other parts of the government, what's wrong with cleaning Serbia at last? But prosecutors in their work can be independent, i.e. they have to be independent (SRS ambassadors banged the benches during speech).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8720	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8721	Mrs. Komic, I think you're overly misreading article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Now I'm going to explain that to you if you don't interrupt me, what are you looking at? You know, when a man in a session, in the capacity of a citizen, who was given the position of president, at the moment of some criticism, says - so I graduated from law school, then the question arises whether it's after Bologna or before Bologna. Now, if it's before Bologna, then you should refer that citizen to Smederevo. There are 88 zombies against which proceedings are conducted. (The Belief of Radet, from the place, is he also there?) And his is there. Now, that's not the main one. The main thing is that it really violates dignity, you know, someone who says - I have resignations, I've lost my resignations, my term is in my pocket, it's like that Smokey guy, now you see him-now you don't see him. He comes in, so he's giving a lecture, so he criticises Bojan Krishti as a thief. I'm just drawing attention to you - that the fact that there is a graduation in criminal acts or the difference in the qualification for a crime does not give the right to the person responsible under attitude 1 to authoritatively criticise the one responsible for the position 4. When it is done in this place, in the National Assembly, it raises the dignity of the MPs. We must preserve the dignity of the National Assembly by preserving the dignity of the MPs of the people. Someone came up with a system a long time ago -- how to violate the dignity of the National Assembly, so he was removing immunity, taking out MPs, ordering newspaper articles. And day and day, we've got a bunch of these primitives, where orchestrated attacks by the National Assembly. Just watch the Second Channel, follow the National Assembly sessions, the citizens, that's where you'll best know everything. It's the best place for everyone to talk about themselves, and even a citizen to come out here, introduce himself as some pretty flowers, zombies, give a lecture on Bologna, past Bologna, etc. That's all citizens need to see. You, Mrs. Comic, if you meet the president of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, draw attention to her that something is wrong with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or with the application of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the National Assembly. Because when a man says to you in the eyes - they're taken, I've lost everything, sit here and pretend - I'm God, I'm a people's messenger, etc. etc. It's already a diagnosis, one dangerous condition, and we, among other things, need to deal with the treatment of social illnesses. And it's one of the functions of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8722	There's no damage to article 27. The word in the National Assembly during the session is given only by the MPs, representatives of the government and persons invited to attend the session by the president of the National Assembly. (Zoran Krasic, from the site: I am not satisfied with the answer. The MP is not satisfied with the answer. I ask the Assembly to declare in the day of voting on Article 27's injury, as said by MP Zoran Krasic. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Ambassador Srboljub Zivanovic argues that he is not a folk MP. National MP Tomislav Nikolic is a national envoy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8723	I am neither in charge nor authorized to treat social or individual illnesses. But I have to point out that when one of the MPs here abuses his right, as was the case in the previous case, when a gentleman who gets carried out too much sometimes in his discussions, commits a criminal act by referring to some 88 zombies who are being tried in Smederev and thus directly defines what the verdict in that case will look like. He knows very well that at least the man he defends himself defends by principle that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. So, in my opinion, I'm free to take it out, because if I cheat there won't be consequences, there's a lot of innocent people being tried there. They are not only from the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, but from the University of Belgrade, Nis, some of you have studied, some of you have not studied, so I can't say that because of some students, professors from three universities around Serbia are accused and now, when they get a chance to defend themselves in court, when the process began yesterday, in the National Assembly they can't be said guilty. Because it is destroying the basic principle of presummation of innocence, which should be the idea of leadership of all of us, and especially of the MPs. So if you think I've committed a crime, your word isn't enough, as I think some of you have committed some crimes, so I'm not putting it out in public because my word isn't enough. Whoever thinks I committed a crime must respect the path set by the state of Serbia. Even if he is unhappy at the end with final judicial rulings, he can still address institutions in Europe. That's what made this constitution possible. But if you accuse 88 professors here, some of them have so much knowledge that future generations of teachers will not reach, especially these professoral children who also have master's and PhDs in cabinets. It's really the lowest scale a man can get down on. So, in defense of these professors, I know some of them as good neighbors and friends, and never one exam, not me, not any of my friends, not my acquaintances, not my cousins. I call upon you not to judge them before they have the right to defend themselves, especially against them as a Messenger of the people, lest you insult them with any kind of epithetism. (President: Speak for three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, I'm ending up, that you don't insult them with some kind of epithetism that you can freely refer to me for, I was your longtime friend, so if I was a zombie 18 years ago, that's what I am today, if I was Smokey 18 years ago, that's what I am today. Nothing's changed in my brain in the last 18 years. But with you, Mr. Krasic, I notice changes. Please follow the advice of your surroundings. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8724	You've been talking for four minutes. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8725	Mrs. Komic, I again call on Article 27, and I have proof that I have reason to call on it and proof that everything that I say will be true is in the stenogram of the previous exhibition. Just to remind you, in the previous presentation you could not even hear the invitation to an appropriate provision of the Rules of Procedure, nor the basis for the notification. You have to understand that. Since you have, as it is said in the people, that everyone in this room is an MP for you, I draw your attention that there are cameramen, and other reporters and security services, so there is some difference. You would have to know that if Serbia claims to be a legal state, then the Constitution must be respected. You'd have to know that a man can't replicate when he goes to the market, so let's stop by the Assembly, so let's go a little bit if he can say something and get out. You are able to treat every such specimen here as if it were a People's MP. Then you let your brain on the island, and then everything comes out here. Mrs. Comic, in addition to warning you of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I am asking you to consult with those who are in fact exercising power in Serbia, it is currently only one man, his name is Boris Tadic. You can consult with his cabinet chief, Miket Rakic, you can talk to this head of the DB, you can talk to Gilas, you can talk to all those who are the creators of this life, where we wouldn't talk today about the Kumanov Agreement, these conflicts in power, these phenomena to distract the debate on something that's absolutely solved, resolved. I would only ask you to inform all of them that there is a Constitution, Article 102, paragraph 2, that there are statements, as a confession, which is the queen of evidence, and that someone has disabled the people's will and 78 seats of the SRS in this room. It shouldn't be your fix-ide, but it would be good, to come out of this primitive which was brought by the DS vote from Bodrum, Thessaloniki, arrest, robbery, etc., to solve this issue at least in a walk and save your conscience, get rid of these great sins.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8726	There's no damage to article 27. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to speak after the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1). Please also indicate for the microphone a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8727	Article 104, just for the public's sake. Many are calling for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to read to you, for who knows which time, that member of the Constitution you call upon when you claim to have another 20, it seems to me, the 21st term. The position of the MPs is called the Head of the Constitution, and it says, in Article 102, paragraph 2 - the MP is free to, under the conditions of a certain law, irrevocably place his mandate at the disposal of the political party, whose proposal has been elected as a MP. For those who do not know, this constitution was written after the Constitutional Court concluded that the term of office belonged to the MP. The wish of those who wrote this constitution, the wish of the citizens who confirmed this constitution in the referendum, the wish of MPs who then voted in the National Assembly, was that the MP had his mandate, and that he could, under certain conditions, make it available to the political party whose list he was elected. I have no desire to make my mandate available to you. You don't have a law by which I could, even if I wanted to, make my mandate available to you. The only way to stop my term is if I don't want to be an MP anymore. That means handing over my resignation to the Serbian Parliament, not to you, but to the Serbian Parliament, the president of the National Assembly. You've got nothing to do with it. Each of you has a mandate. There were 78 of you, now there are 57 of you, decide how you will proceed. You've got a group of MPs, you can split it into five groups. One of you can move on to another parliamentary group. You are MPs free, you have your will. No one can punish you anymore for not fulfilling his order, for not going against your will and knowing that you are doing what you are ordered to do. It was the wish of this Constitution, not to be slaves to the political party from which you are elected, but to have your mandate, and the party, when running you and when deciding who the MPs are, to know that you have your mandate and that you can do whatever you want with it. That's how you feel in the Serbian Progressive Party. How's it going with you guys, I don't know. (The SRS MPs bang on the bench during the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8728	There's no breach of Article 104. MPs have their own styles of making arguments. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8729	Mrs. Comic, again, Article 27, look at the stenogram again. When a man makes the right path to the market by mistake, then he comes to King Milan 14, of course he can't know everything, but you've been a long messenger, you know and you insist that when an MP comes out, that he be called to the proper provision of the Rules of Procedure. Now and last time you looked through your fingers. The stenogram proves everything I'm telling you, and last time I told you, I'm telling you now. However, Mrs. Komic, since you are very often exposed and you are in a situation to hear some interpretations that have little to do with the Constitution of Serbia, I must point to you, Mrs. Komic, to the situation. There is a website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on the site are all parties that have received mandates in the National Assembly. However, there is a tendency here, when they miss the market, then they enter the National Assembly, mention a party that did not participate in the elections. I remind you of this because of Bogoljub Karic, because Bogoljub Karic made the same excursion in the National Assembly. I remind you this also because of the situation where G17 plus two mandates were in. An identical situation. There's no situation here right now to say - I stole, I don't give the papers, but here's the situation where we don't respect the Constitution and everything else. It goes on here and on and on, so it's said, my friends, with your money I made my name, now I'm a person, you don't exist anymore, I don't care. The other debts that this person has made, someone needs to pay those debts. Where are those who glued posters? Where are those who voted? It's a similar situation with those who voted for both your party and all these parties represented here. I warn you, take the opportunity to talk to the president of the National Assembly, you see, don't you notice that the National Assembly with such examples is crumbling into something that is illegal? This is where you get people with no legitimacy. We also have a paradoxical situation here that the DS parliamentary group accepts the citizens' amendments. I agree that in internal communication, before it comes into a position to write the amendments, to have a conversation with the citizens, to hear their ideas, to translate it into amendments, but here you have made it from the National Assembly of an institution where everyone can pass, to the porter's place to throw the amendment, come here and enter the procedure. It's primitive, it's simple, it's not civilized. Civilization is based on order, respect for the Constitution and the law. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8730	There's no injury to article 27 in the allegations you have in your presentation. The resignation procedure, i.e. the termination procedure, has been defined by law and by the bodies of the National Assembly involved by the Administrative Committee and the RIK. Where an authorised applicant of the electoral lists submits a request to the Election Commission for the termination of someone's term of office or for the entry into office, it shall inform the Administrative Board thereof, and it shall inform the Assembly and the chairman or chairman of the National Assembly of its names in the mandates. This is where the responsibilities and affairs of the National Assembly begin and end. Article 27 is also not injured in the care that MPs speak and MPs submit amendments. Citizens can, under the Constitution, if the number of signatures is sufficient, submit a bill to the National Assembly, then, of course, the first signator of the citizens who have submitted the law has the right to submit amendments. I failed to apply Article 27, you did not call for this to explain the infringement of Article 27, in the case of the custody of the session, as MP Tomislav Nikolic was disturbed by noise produced by hitting cases about the inventory of the Assembly, and there is no way that, taking care of the order, I will allow the full application of Articles 27 and 104 to be speech-free. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Last explanation. Article 104. Some MPs say the member is also invited to approach the speakers, and on the other hand I asked the MP to say so in a microphone. I can tell you which MPs have that custom, and that is understood to be within Article 27, because it is important that the chairman knows which member of the Rules of Procedure the MP is invited to.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8731	I'm referring to Article 104 as I did last time. The dignity of the National Assembly is at stake here by trying to raise suspicions that an honest MP has entrusted the political party in which he was in, and has excluded his debts from it. Because of the public, not because of you, you were never interested in where the campaign money came from, how much money was spent, you were interested in which one of you would be the MP. The SRS remained with a monthly loan of millions and 500 000 dinars and with state funding of nearly 14 million dinars per month. If it wasn't for that loan, maybe 20 or 30 of us would have been MPs. Those at the top of the party and those on the defense team, Dr Vojislav Seselj. What would happen to other SRS activists, the presidents of district and municipal committees, who are the only way to affirm themselves, their party and provide themselves with some existence, since the party is in very few municipalities in local self-government, where some more can be employed or secure its family. Would you, who accuse me by order today, not out of your mind, be the messengers of the people if it were not for this indemnity against my assessment of what we can accomplish by doing it? You wouldn't be. We could've gone campaigning without the money. These guys would've been looking forward to it. Unfortunately, Serbia has entered pre-election activities in which mandates are provided with a lot of money. Now you're pounding. During this assembly of the Assembly, you will be pounding into benches and waiting for new elections, as in twenty, you may be able to secure mandates. That list will come from The Hague and will be the most responsible people in the party. What about the others? What about the party? Who will promote it in so many Serbian cities where there will be no MPs, just because you are banging? The better you bang, the less mandates you expect in the next election. That's it. I accept that the SNS is in charge of this loan, and if you could transfer us at least this money to fund twenty-one MPs, that would be enough for us, and we know how to deal with politics. During the speech of MP Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8732	There's no breach of Article 104. The MP who made his point and his argument about the injury has the right to his own style. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8733	Mrs. Comic, I have to call Article 27, because maybe you, both the public and the MPs would be wrong, and I would make that mistake if you called on Article 104. The member implies that dignity has been violated by the MPs. This is about your injury. Why is it hurting yours? You don't take good care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. Taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure means that the Rules of Procedure should be properly interpreted, that provisions should be applied, not that a man should wait for a pension at the post of president or vice president of the National Assembly to be taken care of. That's one thing. The other thing, the very important thing, and you have to understand, is that the dignity of the National Assembly has really been violated. You had a chance to hear my predecessor. Take everything life gives you. Give us money for 20 MPs. Be careful, such a request does not enjoy any protection. It's a request contrary to the morale of this society. Such a request is contrary to the public order, such a request pleads against lawlessness. They're making you break the law on purpose. Maybe it's a possible situation after the Bologna Process. There, Mrs. Komic, indeed someone takes a great risk when trying to unencumber me, but in my words there is truth, and as I interpret it, as I interpret the Constitution and the law. I don't want to question morality, but know for yourself, if anyone is able to take two oaths in a church run over and come out dead cold and say, "Give me that money, he's interested in money." He mentions a man in The Hague, and here in the papers he wants to be a friend, to help. Let me remind you, he resigned for one amendment, and now we see that it's the mandates, the money, The Hague. I'm too happy today. On Friday, the sun warmed me up when I saw two responses from the defendant and the second indictee: it's a confession for a crime. Now you've had a chance to see confession for a crime. He's interested in money. The money story, if it wasn't for that money, there wouldn't be a mandate. It's not true, we're getting bills today and we're looking for contracts that he signed when he signed. To let you know, Mrs. Comic, and the public in Serbia, Nikolic, has escaped from the party, authorized to sign Veroljub Arsic, Dusica Nikolic, the bookkeeper who led it. You're protecting it. Millions and millions are coming now. In the contract he concluded, there is a provision on ecology.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8734	There's no damage to article 27. During your full exposure, I take care of the order. The communication between you and the MPs from your MP group is without insult and by default when your MPs approve of what you say. National MP Jadranko Vukovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting under Article 104, the dignity of the National Assembly. What Mr. Nikolic said at the very least is incorrect, let me put in a stricter word. To go out for this pay phone and talk about the mandates they belong to and how they belong, and he was on the list, Vojislav, and the second one, he was here in the country first, and say, "That's my mandates, I took it." And we all know how these people are figured out here and led up to a conversation by the unfortunate Gok. I'll look them all in the eye and know how they were led and returned. You're the first of them to wave your hand, officer. The one from Prepolje that allowed Gojka Radića to buy land down there, some forest. Mrs. Comic, I'm calling from this pay phone, and here we have no evidence of crime, and we have evidence, we're going to use them in a big campaign. Let them brag about how they achieved the results. You'll see the evidence. I call again from the authorities to visit the empire of Alexander Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic and me they called a drug dealer. Gojko Radic is a special story, he will be processed by those who need to process it, so you will easily prove it. Vukic asks me - Brother Jadranko, how much of Tadic only got from Tomislav Nikolic to participate in the presidential elections? I'm pounding: three million. He says you're sick of information, five. Alexander Vukic told me, I will swear before both God and the church, only he participated. If the SRS hadn't participated in the presidential election, they wouldn't have been there. Everyone else was boycotting. It's our position to always participate in the elections, no matter who put them out. We have evidence, but we have witnesses on this side. Do you know what kind of evidence I have? I have a man who carried the money, but how can I say Meso carried the money when he's a decent man and I'm going to cut him off, to stamp him, to make an example. So, you can't talk about morale for this speaker, and that's what we're going to prove that you've taken a lot of money from Boris Tadic's regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8736	There is no violation of Article 104 if any of the MPs had injured a member, they would have been given a warning measure. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to article 35. The Law on the State Council of Prosecutors is a correct amendment and it would remove many ambiguities and many abuses. The state council of prosecutors law is a procedural law that regulates the way of elections, resolution, jurisdiction, termination of office and procedure for proposing members of the State Council of Prosecutors. Article 35. The bill says: "The state council is making a decision on a single candidate's proposal with the highest number of votes or more candidates (pay attention to this "or more candidates") on each list, based on the record of the election resulting from the electoral commission." Item 2: "The state council proposes more candidates in the event that several public prosecutors, i.e. the deputy public prosecutors, get about the same number of votes on one election list. "It should also pay attention to the words, "get approximately equal to the highest number of votes." "The final decision on proposing candidates from the public prosecutors' office, namely the deputy public prosecutors on each candidate list, delivers the State Council to the National Assembly." This is, therefore, the bill, and MP Djordje Milicevic suggested that Article 35 be amended and that it reads: "The state council is making a decision on the proposal of one candidate with the highest number of votes, on each list, except for the list of basic prosecutors, from which a decision on the proposal of two candidates with the highest number of votes is made, based on the minutes on the election results of the Election Commission." The state's major prosecutor is a constitutional category this time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before this constitution was passed, we had a situation that was the High Council of Justice as an unconstitutional category, and now we have the High Council of the Judiciary, the Constitution, and the State's Chief Prosecutors, about the same jurisdiction, except that the High Council of the Judiciary is in the area of the judiciary, and the major state prosecutors are at the prosecution. When I said that the State Council was making a decision to propose one or more candidates, which is why more candidates if elections were called to propose candidates to the Council, so they would finally make a proposal to the National Assembly? It is known that the larger state prosecutor's office has 11 members, three of which are in office, which are the minister in charge of justice, the Republic Public Prosecutor and the chairman of the Board of Administration and Justice. Of course, there are eight elected members, six of which are representatives of the prosecution of different levels and degrees and representatives of the legal chamber and of the professors of law with the necessary experience of 15 years in the profession. Although in office, i.e. three members of the State Council of Prosecutors are ministers, the public prosecutor and the chairman of the Board of Administration and Justice, but we also have a representative of the Faculty of Law, i.e. a professor of law who is elected, and the initiative is initiated by the Dean of the oldest law school, and there can be more candidates. It is not said that a joint session of the deans of law schools will propose one or more who receive approximately the same number of votes. We have the same situation at the Serbian Bar Association, where only one candidate will be proposed, not one or more candidates who get about the same number of votes. The rest, therefore, of those elected by the National Assembly, members of the State Council of Prosecutors, is that more candidates can be proposed. Then the election procedure for members, whose proposal is being submitted here to the National Assembly, and 19 members under this bill would be regulated by the way of the election, would be completely unthinkable if more than one candidate were to be proposed. Approximately, if lobbying is not desirable, I will not say the best, but rather to a desirable prosecutor's candidate, then to try the problem politically to solve it here in the Assembly and, therefore, my colleague Milicevic rightly noticed that this provision is not good, leaves the possibility of abuse. So it's possible that only the candidate who gets the highest number of votes, whether he's a representative of the primary prosecutor, whether the higher one, whether the appeal, whether the republican prosecutor, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, is quite whatever, but only the candidate who got the largest number of votes can be placed. That makes perfect sense. The government's explanation for not accepting the amendments says, "The state council can only propose more candidates if more than one public prosecutor, i.e. the deputy public prosecutor, gets about the same number of votes on one election list." No Professor Shami, perhaps he could best explain what "approximately equal to the largest number of votes" means. In order to respect the will of those who voted, it is necessary that candidates who won the approximately equal number of votes be proposed for the election of members of the State Council. "approximately equal to the largest number of votes," I'm going to illustrate that with one result at a football game. Rarely when in practice we have this number of goals reached, but, let's say, they play two teams, one to 10, and the other nine goals. Approximately the same numbers, if I get it right, if I get it right at all, what that means is roughly equal numbers, but three points will be recorded by that football team that scored 10, not nine goals. She'll place herself, and the other one might fall out. This amendment, I think, is very correct and it would be good to accept it because in this way, the abuse that can come from political parties, who want to exercise influence, this time of course on the public prosecutor's office. In the event that the National Assembly is proposed to elect members of the State Council of Prosecutors, it is only those candidates who are not nearly, but who get the highest number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8738	Thank you. Mr. Krasic by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8739	I'll spread this a little bit to a few amendments, it's all about, you know, not going off topic. I would ask that, in addition to this amendment to Article 35, we have these two amendments, pay attention to something written in Article 38(3). The point of these amendments to Article 35 is that when the proposal comes before the National Assembly, there are more candidates. Let me make it simple. I'm not going to comment on this "approximately", it really doesn't mean anything, I don't know why you keep it in the bill as a formulation, it absolutely doesn't mean anything, it can just be misused. I would draw your attention to Article 38(3), and I would draw your attention to the practice that we had here when we chose members of some authorities, so it's simply concluded that if elected, to choose between, to choose something must have at least two. It takes three or more for organized crime, but to choose something, it's got to be two. Or, let's just make it simple. You know what it says in life, to know which horse is good, you have to try each other, both bad and good. To choose, you have to have something as an alternative, an alternative one, an alternative two, so you choose whether you're going in one or two. If there's only one, then it's just a vote. It's not a formal-legal choice, it's just a vote. When you put into that logic and you put it mainly, it doesn't mean anything at all. However, this situation in Article 38(3) is dangerous here. He says, if the elected member of the State Council of Prosecutors, without justifiable reasons, does not take office within 15 days, you have adopted the amendment, so it is now 30 days, from the day of elections in the National Assembly, will be deemed not elected. Be careful, that wording "will be considered not selected" is wrong. He was elected, but he didn't take office. It's a legal situation. That's the first thing. The second thing, all that you've predicted for these provisions, the way you choose is to form a proposal, the right choice comes here, that's that big difference. So this is a practical way of deciding how to get to the candidate's proposal. It's a completely different situation. Anyone who enters that machine as a candidate for what was previously suggested, he must have written consent to want to be a candidate, he can't, like at a time of communism, you know what, I wouldn't, but the base has run me down. Just leave it alone. There's no such thing as a fake anymore. So, he has to be agreed that one of the candidates is, so when he passes, by amendment we say two or more, then he needs to agree that he can be a proposed candidate in the National Assembly and, if the National Assembly chooses him, the impossible option is that he does not now enter the post. If the situation occurs, the man should be resolved immediately if he is from the public prosecutor's office and the deputy public prosecutor's office. Why? He showed absolute indifference and irresponsibility by his conduct. Now with these deadlines for 15 days, 30 days, he'll be deemed not elected, what are we playing? Some kind of procedure? Well, there's no cello-mill here, here's the D.A.'s office. Please, a man who's trained to prosecute perpetrators, now to be in a position, so I would, but you know, I wouldn't, so I joked and so on. You're making this possible. Since I'm out here, I really need to protest. There's something wrong with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, pay attention. What's this about? The government, the specific case of this bill, submitted the bill. The MPs have submitted amendments. The government has given the impression that some of them refuse. I'm not getting into any small details right now, but we have a situation where the government accepts some amendment, and that amendment also goes positively with the Legislative Committee and the board of directors, it becomes an integral part of the bill, and there is no debate here. Look, I appreciate the justification of such a solution, but specifically here when it comes to amendments submitted by Mr Constantinović, please, I would like to draw your attention only, it is an amendment to Article 51, where it is required to add at the end of the text a new position of 8 which reads: "By 1 January 2010, election members of the First Chamber of State members of the public prosecutor's office have the right to a basic salary equal to the basic salary of the Republic Public Prosecutor". Please, why would anyone support this? It's a zero composition of both the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. So he's a deputy prosecutor from some municipal court, who didn't enter this machine because he's in zero terms, with a salary equal to the Republic Public Prosecutor. All of these would have to deal with the D.A.'s office. I think it is even offensive how it works and how the prosecution has been appointed under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that the deputy district attorney, take a place with 20,000 inhabitants where there is a municipal public prosecutor and there are two deputies, one deputy of some kind with a combination of the constituencies, and he therefore has a salary as the Republic Public Prosecutor. The basic principle of hierarchy and co-ordination in the prosecution is nothing. You don't get that principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8740	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8741	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Malovic, firstly to express the dissatisfaction of the DSS parliamentary group that you showed some discontinuity in relation to the law on the high council of the judiciary, when you accepted seven amendments to that law, obviously we did not get along well now when no amendment was accepted. I think when this bill is passed, if it is adopted in this form, published in the Official Messenger, that you will only then discover some illogicalness and some failures that we have been able to resolve in this debate. But it's not our job, we tried to fix this bill, obviously we didn't understand each other. Not to be too long, since my colleagues before me spoke specifically about Article 35, which says, "The state council is making a decision on a single candidate's proposal with the highest number of votes etc." The DSS parliamentary group has proposed that this part of the first "one candidate with the largest number of votes" be deleted for a very simple reason, because we believe that there are more candidates and that the National Assembly has the right to vote. The government's reasoning that this amendment is rejected states that it is logical to propose a candidate with the highest number of votes. I don't know who's estimating it logically, whether you, Mr. Cosic, whether or not the Government, but I don't think that's supposed to stand in the light of why this amendment is being rejected. For, let us look at the second position of this member, which reads: "The state council proposes more candidates in the event that several public prosecutors, or the deputy public prosecutor, get about the same number of votes on one election list." I asked you for a formulation that stands here the same way when we discussed the law on the High Council of the Judiciary, I think it'll be funny for law students, let alone us, which this formulation stands in law, but it's another clue that some people who write and do this normative work obviously don't know they're doing their job. Also, speaking of this chapter of the law, it is impossible not to associate this article with Article 38(3), where it says that unless it enters office within 15 days it will be considered as not elected. So what does this National Assembly do? The D.A. is a law enforcement body. If the man chosen by the National Assembly in 15 days changes his mind, does not accept that function, I think it is automatically correct that what we suggest is that more candidates should choose the right one than the one who received the largest number of votes. I appeal to Article 20 of this law, which clearly states that election members of the National Council are elected by the National Assembly. This way, if adopted this way, the National Assembly will not have the opportunity to choose, but to appoint. In fact, for the proposed number of candidates who come here, we'll be able to say: yes or no. We don't have an absolute right to choose, but we're just confirming that limited number that came as a proposal from the State Council of Prosecutors. I think that procedure with more candidates and more democratic and only logical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8742	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. Are there any more interested? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 38th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. At the session of the Legislative Committee, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, with a correction, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment, with a correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8743	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the 50th Proposed Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. In fact, Article 50 of the proposed law provides for the first choice of members of the State Council. ''The National Assembly will (Station 1.) no later than 90 days from the date of entry into force of this law, select election members of the first composition of the State Council. During the election, the National Assembly is obliged to elect at least one member of the State Council from the public prosecutor's office, i.e. the deputy public prosecutors, who perform the prosecutorial office in the public prosecutor's office in the territory of the autonomous province. '"There's one problem here, which is in attitude 2. A single province has been left out of the bill. So we in the SRS believe Serbia has two autonomous provinces -- the Autonomous province of KIM and the Autonomous province of Vojvodina. On page 11. The bill is said - on the territory of the autonomous province. Madam Minister, for those reasons, I thought this amendment should be accepted, because actually here is the problem and not just a problem or a feather drop. Some slip happened probably. That is why I have put this amendment into place because it has great political weight. Consider whether you accept this amendment or not. It's up to you on behalf of the government to decide. What I wanted to draw attention to and point out is that in the election of the First Council of State Prosecutors, members of the State's Council of Prosecutors should be proposed by prosecutors and deputies themselves. The first composition has an extraordinary task, to elect public prosecutors for permanent duty and to propose a selection of public prosecutors, i.e. deputy public prosecutors who are first elected to this post. Extraordinary tasks also require the extraordinary legitimacy of the State Council of Prosecutors. I repeat, emergency tasks require the extraordinary legitimacy of the State Council of Prosecutors, so it is quite illogical that election members of the first composition propose the current High Council of Justice. There would be more room here if the minister of justice were to propose, with the competent Committee on Justice in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We think it would be a better solution if the election members of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors were elected in a way that by the State Council of Prosecutors law was designated and normised as a permanent model of the election of prosecutors, i.e. deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Serbian judiciary, whose constitution includes courts, prosecutors and lawyers, according to citizens, is the dark side of Serbia's lack of a socio-political system in general, and that, almost at all levels. From there, it is not bad to approach judicial reform - from municipal, to the Serbian Supreme Court, including developments in public prosecutors. Despite previous Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic's promises and his predecessor, Mr Zoran Stojkovic, that the initiated reform, so by fundamental reform, the judiciary would become an effective, fair and independent state of justice remains unchanged. In all polls, justice research agencies remain at the top of the corruption suspect scale. But I don't agree with this. This is a flat-rate agency, and I think those agencies have to take care of it when they do one research, do it and publish it, but only based on the facts that actually exist. We can't say that prosecutors and judges are all corrupt. It's just a matter of work. We have a majority of good and professional judges, good and professional public prosecutors, good and professional deputy public prosecutors, at least in the profession it was an opportunity for me to see for myself. We in the SRS believe that if there are individual cases, these individual cases can be solved in a different way, and not in this way accuse the court of being corrupt on a case-by-case basis. When it comes to the expertise of our holders of judicial functions, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I am responsible for saying that nothing of our judges and our prosecutors is less professional than in other countries and Angolan, and European, i.e. continental law. Many of our professors have finished, you know, some of them on Sorbonne. They taught law school students, in Serbia in particular, when it comes to the prestigious Law Faculty in Belgrade, which has trained and trained many judicial holders who, in any case, deserve attention and say we have such experts that they can be compared, therefore, in the world and in other countries on all continents. When you look at the Hague tribunal and see who judges everyone there, our judges and prosecutors wouldn't even be interns. Unfortunately. But the Security Council has chosen these judges from different countries, and he believes that these dealers of justice are uncut, and in any case they are the ones who need to share justice when it comes to war crimes. However, there is another situation in the International Court of Justice. Indeed, in the International Court of Justice there are experts, people of legitimacy and people of authority. When it comes to the prosecutor's office in our country, it should be borne in mind that the head of the body's elders, therefore, bearers of office as public prosecutors, from the lowest to the highest prosecutor's office, must primarily have legitimacy, authority, and that they are impartial, and that they are independent. Not to be independent of working or not working, not for that variant and for that qualification, that our courts and prosecutors should be, I say, independent. No, they may be independent, but it is known which instance controls their work, whether it is the prosecution, whether it is the Supreme Court, as well as other lower courts. Please, when it comes to control, in any case, the minister of justice must have his own special place and responsibility. But now that's the problem. If you give great authority to the minister of justice, and the minister of justice is influenced, which, in a particular case, I don't want to say that, but one of the future justice ministers can be from some political party, and proposed, and be elected, and he listens to orders only from the government. It's a big problem for the judiciary and the prosecution in particular, a big problem. You see, the current justice minister, Mrs. Malovic, has insight into the amount of damage the state pays to citizens who have been baselessly accused, who have been detained, and it turns out later that a liberating decision has been made against those persons. So, both detention and a certain prison, if for an unfounded accused person, a certain investigation lasted for months and citizens are addressing the court. And now we have a new option, by our constitution, we have the right, so all of our citizens in Serbia have the right to address the International Court of Justice, who has the right to decide whether our national judiciary decisions, our national courts, were in line with international acts, with the Charter of Political Rights of Citizens, with the Charter of the United Nations and with other pacts that our country has ratified with other countries. That's the big problem. I have the knowledge that huge funds have been paid off and paid off because a number of verdicts have yet to become a forceful one, and then the Justice Department will be able and will have to, so, the state, to pay off those damages. Speaking of damages, it's the public prosecutor's responsibility, whether he's going to make a motion to determine detention or not, and, secondly, whether he's going to press charges unfounded or not. What's gonna happen? I have one example of the practice, the level of the indictment's proposal is nine thousand dinars, and the costs of this criminal procedure that's been going on for years are about half a million dinars. Then see what kind of situation we have. I'm not going to appoint that judge, I'm not going to appoint that court either, but I'm telling you, if I have to and I'm going to prove that I can bring in the number of cases, I can point out which court, the damage a man is accused of is the abuse of the official position of 9,000 dinars, and the increased costs of a criminal trial are over half a million dinars. There is no chance that the verdict will be able to survive, any judge to bring it, it will be liberating on the charge proposal, because there are no facts on what to make, because it has been ruled two or three times. (President: Time. I thank you. I'll get back to you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8744	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have submitted an amendment to Article 54(1) where it is said that the election members of the first assembly of the public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors cease their term on the day of entry into office of the election members of the permanent assembly, and no later than the end of the term of office of five years. We believe that the last part of this attitude "at the latest of a five-year term" is too high. First, the provisions of this bill dealing with the election of the first composition of the State Council of Prosecutors are at least very controversial. If these members are carefully analysed, especially if the deadlines for taking certain actions are paid attention, then the first composition of the State Council of Prosecutors does not pass the re-election. If reelection is established as a rule, then it should apply to all. So there's not a single prosecutor's office that needs to stay away or be privileged to others. There is also a question of the very legitimacy in the case where these members elect their fellow public prosecutors' deputies or when they propose public prosecutors, or the republican public prosecutor, to the government itself. I also believe there is no basis for extending their term of office after the election of a permanent assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors. The provision is in direct collegiate with Article 56, which is said to be -- the election procedure of members of the permanent assembly of the State Council of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors will be conducted within six months of the start of the public prosecutor's office's work certain Law on Public Prosecutors. When this provision is translated, it means that the election procedure should be completed by July 2010. I really don't see any reason to extend the term of the first composition here, since we know how he was elected, that it will not go past the same criteria of the election that should go through the next permanent composition of the State Council of Prosecutors. And when you see Article 13, where you determine what is all the jurisdiction of the State Council of Prosecutors, then we can conclude -- what all competences will have this first composition that will not go beyond the criteria of re-election.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8746	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE SIDS AND THE COUNTRIES OF THE COURTS OF THE COURTS AND THE PUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC OF THE COURSES OF THE PUBLIC OF THE COURTS OF THE COURTS AND THE PUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC (s) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Aleksandar Martinović, Milovan Radovanovic, Riza Halimović, Siniša Stamenković, Vladimir Milentijević, Dejan Radenković, Sheriff Hamzagić, Vjerica Radjet, together Sasa Dujović and Žorđa Milić, Dragažić and Mražan Hajdić, Mražan Šajović, Slavić, Mrjanović, Mirjanović, Mirjavić, Slavić, Mirjavić, Dragić, Slavić, Milić, Dragić, Slavić, Slavić, Dragić, Slavić, Milić, Milić, Miljan Mirović, Miljavić, Mirović, Mirović, Milić, Milić, Miljadić, Miljadić, Miljan, Milić, Milić, Milić, Miljan, Milić, Mir, Mil. You have received an amendment based on Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago I made a finding that applies to all the judicial laws proposed by the Serbian Government, which is that they are unequal from the point of view of legal technique and that they do not use uniform legal terminology. This is proof that the government, or the government’s professional services, has been working on the drafts of these laws in haste, insufficiently studioy and obviously with the intention that these laws be found in the congregation procedure as soon as possible, regardless of their quality. Unfortunately, this finding is also evidenced by this proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. The very name of the law shows what it is, therefore, the law is called the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. However, Article 2 states the territorial jurisdiction of the criminal courts, and here the term "terrory" is used, so let's say the infringement courts are: 1) Criminal Court in Arangelovac, for the territory of the municipalities of Arangelovac and Topol, with the court department in Topoli; 2) Criminal Court in Bačka Palanca, for the territory of the municipalities of Bac, Baka Palanka and Baki Petrovac, with the court department in Bac and Backo Petrovac etc. There are 45 points of Article 2 in total. It is also in Article 3 – basic courts are 1) of the first basic court in Belgrade, for the territory of Vračar, Voždovac, Zvezdavac, Zemun, Novi Belgrade, Palilula, Rakovica, Sava Venac, Stari Grad and Chukarica. Thus, the name of the law states "the areas of courts", and Article 2, in Articles 3 and 3 of the other members, the term "municipal territory" is consistently used in constant use. In an explanation why my amendment is not accepted, the Government stated: "The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia uses the territory of the municipality, or the city as a concept. The proposal for a law on the regulation of courts also states that the court is established for the territory of the municipality, i.e. the city, and that this constitutes an area of jurisdiction of the court. As a result, the proposal for a law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors sets out exactly what is considered to be the area of jurisdiction of the court and of the territory of the municipalities and of the city, so that the solution proposed by the amendment cannot be accepted. "Mrs. Malovic, all laws in the Republic of Serbia have equal legal power. Only the constitution is the most legal force and all laws in the Republic of Serbia must comply with the Constitution. The Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which has already entered into force, has the same legal force as this law when adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see why you pulled the parallel between the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors when these two laws have absolutely no connection. They don't have anything to do with it. Just because a termology is used in the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia does not mean that you have to use such a termology in this law or, if your logic is accepted, you have to implement your logic to the end and then the law has to be called - the law on the seats and territory of courts and public prosecutors. Like this, the whole thing seems ridiculous: you refer to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which has nothing to do with this matter, and then you say - that law uses the term "municipality territory". Okay, but then why is this law not called that, as is the case in the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, but in the name of the law you use the term "area" and in the matter of the law itself and in its contents you use the term "terrory"? So I believe that this amendment that we have submitted to Article 2 is absolutely good and that it should have been accepted because it is termologically harmonising the matter of your law. In principle, there is no particular difference between the word "territory" and the word "area", but when the law is called law on the areas of courts and public prosecutors, we felt that the termology from the law's name should then be drawn to the end of the law and everywhere consistently, constantly use the term "area" instead of "terrory". Otherwise, if you wanted to bring this law into some kind of relationship with the Law on Territorial Organization, then, Mrs. Malovic, you should have called this bill a bill on the seats and territory of courts and public prosecutors. You wouldn't be wrong. But since you've already chosen this termology, it's really funny to say "the area of courts and public prosecutors" only in the name of the law, and in all other members, the words "the territory of municipalities and cities" are used. From a legal and technical point of view, what you have stated in your explanation why you do not accept the amendment is not good. Otherwise, there is no fundamental difference between the word "territory" and the word "area" in Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8748	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. The essence of the amendment I have submitted is to prevent the bill, as in the title, which is abolished by the municipal infringement committee in Aleksinec. More specifically, the amendment reads - Article 1(2), point 1), adds a new point 1), which reads: "A mistrial in Alexinac, for the territory of the municipalities of Aleksinac and Razanj, with the court department in Raznja". The existing points (1) to 45) shall become points (2) to 46. Of course, according to my basic motive and proposal in the disposition of the amendment, the words "Alexinac" and "Ražanj" are changed in line with the decline, i.e. to delete. Why did I do that? The judiciary on the territory of the Aleksinac municipality has a centuries-old tradition, not exactly centuries-old, but close to 200 years. In the last 60 years, the municipal court, the prosecution and the misdemeanor court have been meeting courts, later district courts, in order to become municipal courts in a later period. It is now envisioned for the Aleksinc criminal court to be a law enforcement body, or department, and for the Aleksinc municipal court to be a unit of the basic court in Nis. Also, anticipating the existence of a prosecutor's office in Nis, with departments in Aleksinac and Raznje. In the area of the Council for Violations in Nis, which includes the municipality's infringement authority in Alexinec, a large number of cases were in the past 2007, and in the last three years, the municipal authority had exactly 3,515 cases. It is expected that in the next period, given the number of infringements and inflows of the case, customs, foreign and tax offences will also be in the jurisdiction of criminal courts. The municipality of Aleksinac, Mrs Malovic, is a municipality of approximately sixty-sixty-seven thousand inhabitants, with 72 inhabited towns, including the municipality's headquarters. There are considerable reasons and justifications for the criminal court to remain based in Aleksinc, as well as the primary court and the municipal public prosecutor's office. It explains several criteria, i.e. parameters managed by the Ministry of Justice for making such a proposal in the draft law, and you are in the explanation that the Government rejected the amendment that I submitted to Article 2. stated that the Government did not accept the amendment because "The proposal for a law prescribed that the Infringement Court in Nis has a court department in Aleksinec. This solution is consistent with the data on the inflow of cases and the number of judges required from the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Justice. "However, this analysis of the inflow of the case shows a completely different picture – that the inflow of the case in the infringing court in Alexinac is greater than in certain criminal courts that are left to be misdemeanors, not in the departments of another criminal court in some other places. Furthermore, in an explanation that the amendment refused, the government stated that certain deviations from these basic parameters followed... In my humble legal opinion, Mrs Malovic, these parameters had to be entered into the text of the law, on which basis certain courts were abolished, and on which basis they were not. It was only by reason of the law that you cited which parameters, reasons, criteria of the Ministry of Justice and the Government were managed when the draft of this law was given, when individual infringement courts, basic courts and prosecutors were left to be what they are now and some to be abolished. However, you had quite a number of deviations. I think it should have been entered into the text of the law, to see exactly what the parameters are, not to go from case to case. I trust you that your basic parameters were the very ones you stated in the reasoning of the law. But I do know exactly that in certain cases you have deviated from those parameters. Why? Under the influence of some people in the system of government, whether from the local system of the party you belong to or from some powerful man, not to say political, economical or not, some courts remain what they are so far. Because I don't see a reason. If I don't make it, in light of the justification of my amendment, in some other amendment that I have filed and which I ask for the municipal court in Aleksinec to remain the primary court in Aleksinec, I will provide you with the individual parameters that you mention, which contribute to my claim to remain the primary court in Aleksinec. When I compare these parameters to some courts that remain the primary courts in Serbia, let me give you an example of Paracino, Užica, Požega, etc., by different criteria... You're stating that certain deviations have been made due to the geographical distance. I've already mentioned the basic courts, the distance of Paracin - Jagodina, Nis - Alexine... I guess it's more Nis - Alexinac than Paracino - Jagodina; 35 kilometers is Nis - Aleksinac, and Paracin - Jagodina is about 20 kilometers. Is your geographical distance... What's further, then there's less reason to remain a mistrial, or vice versa? I know that you had the intention and that you so explained that it was the other way around – the smaller the distance, the smaller the reason for it to remain a fundamental court, wherever it is. Next, you specified: close to the border. The Književec municipality's territory is bordering Bulgaria, and it is not intended to have a mistrial. The nearness of the tourist resorts – it is not intended for Sokobanja to have a criminal court, and Sokobanja itself is a tourist place, very prominently and visited. These parameters you listed and explained, in my opinion, are not justified or are not in principle represented from case to case. You stated, in line with this, that all the affairs carried out in the seat of the court will also be done in the court department. I'm asking you, if you can explain all the objections to this law, and there are many... I respect your request to be present while we MPs make objections to the bill. It is impossible to follow everything, but I appreciate your consistency to be present and to show maximum interest in what is said behind this speaker, although the nature of a person's personality is such that not everything can be remembered and monitored. I'm asking you, regardless of whether it's a criminal court, a basic court or a prosecutor's office, who's doing administrative work? Who will set up and choose in a working relationship, in administrative and legal affairs, any kind of workers in criminal courts, in basic courts, may that be both the hygienist and the scribe and the porter and the guard, etc.? What are the tasks of the primary court in charge, and the units, or the department of criminal courts, that they do so? It is impossible for them to do so, as the government has stated in response to my amendment. Indeed, I have long been in politics and MP of the Serbian Radical Party, Alexinac is a small place; I have never heard of it, perhaps there is, but I do not know that all judges of the criminal court, the municipal body for violations, both the municipal court in Alexinac and the public prosecutor's office, are doing their jobs with maximum quality, professional and unsuspecting quality. You say sanctions. No, but that's one reason. It's not sanctions against them, but it's sanctions against the citizens and we'll see if it's politicized. We believe in the SRS, when it comes to the judiciary in general, that centralization and politicization of the judiciary are being carried out. He who is not like should think about how he acts and works in the judiciary, so as to consider whether he will be re-election later, and whether he and that judge will be elected to that place and whether a judge from Aleksinec or Nis will be transferred to perform his judicial affairs in Jagodina, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Užica, Pirota, etc., because that is the right that you, by law, have foreseen as a possibility. From a humane point of view, we have judges who are very good at doing their jobs and predisposition, i.e. the spatial possibility of lodging a criminal court, as well as a municipal court. The exercise and protection of their rights through the court will be difficult when these courts are no longer in this form, as they now exist. Madam Minister, I am expressing my hope, given that the political situation in Aleksinc is such that there will be no politicisation and instrumentalisation of the judiciary, especially at the District Court in Nis, which does very professionally its work, and the politicisation of the competent ministry in case of functioning, maintenance and legal decision-making by the assembly majority in SO Alexinac on Friday 28 November, to determine the termination of the mandate to the former SRS committees and their return to the parties to whom these mandates belong, which is the SRS. After that, she followed (and that is the only thing he's done lately with honor and honesty) the resignation of the former president of the Aleksinac municipality, who is from the SRS. There's a lot we can blame him for: SRS fraud and party colleagues and friends in the party, making statements that he signed a contract under duress (conceive, president of the municipal board and president of the municipality), insulting and cursing the SRS board. What he resigned was the only honest and honorable act and move in everything that the former president of the Aleksian municipality did. What's not on this subject I mentioned along the way, because it's part of the politicization of all of it. In the light of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's refusal to refuse amendments related to the basic courts, we have the need to prevent the influence of the local environment on judgment and decision-making in courts, so I have attached myself to that moment, but also to this amendment, mentioning the elements that are in favour of the justification of the amendments that I have made to this Article of the Law and to Article 3. The bill, which I provide for a municipal court in Aleksinec to be the primary court in Aleksinec, not the primary court unit in Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8750	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr Milan Lapčević has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8751	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, at the proposed law, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which says that the infringement court should remain in Alexinac for the territory of the municipalities of Aleksinac, Sokobanja and Razanj. The amendment was not accepted by the Government and the competent committee. In an explanation, it is similar to that of Mr Radovanovic, that by the number of cases, by distance, by geographical characteristics, there is no reason to remain a misdemeanor court in Alexinac, but the infringement court was transferred to Nis, with departments in Alexinac, Sokobanja and Raznja, i.e. Sokobanja is transferred to Zaječar. I don't think this kind of explanation is enough and that, first of all, it's not fair. You are the minister of justice, and you would have to, first of all, have a sense of justice, regardless of what you are to me, as a minister, very likable and that you are sending one of the most beautiful messages a minister can send to the Serbian public, which is that he can be a minister and do such a responsible and difficult job, and also carry a new life. It's for all praise. Why am I saying that you could have a sense of justice and justice? I'm going to give you one of the most dramatic examples that has been proposed in this draft law, which is that there remains a misdemeanor court in Lazarevec, only for the territory of the Lazarec municipality. The Lazarec municipality, as far as I know, has no more than ten thousand inhabitants, perhaps not so much, and it has, by average, probably the largest income in the Republic, or is among the top five, over 40,000-45,000 dinars per employee. On the contrary, it is predicted that the infringement court will be in Nis for the territories of the municipalities of Aleksinac, Gajin Han, Doljevac, Žitoraj, Merošin, Razanj, Svrljig and the city of Nis, with departments of the court in all the municipalities other than Gadji's Han. Gajin Han is a municipality 25 kilometers away from Nis and has 15 thousand inhabitants, and you can easily see in the statistics that average incomes in Gadjin Han are below 12,000 dinars. One of the poorest municipalities in Serbia, with the most unbuilding infrastructure, with the poorest population, with the lowest number of employees compared to the population. So devastated in every way. Tell me, what's the criterion for the Lazarian to remain a criminal court without Gadgin Han having a criminal trial? I can understand that this law wanted to reduce costs, to rationalise the judiciary in the process of general savings, to make some savings, but I get the impression that this savings and this rationalization are always going from the poorest ones, to those who can bear the hardest of such savings and such rationalization. As far as my amendment is concerned, I suggested, for all of the above reasons that Mr. Radovanovic had just said, of course some others, that the misdemeanor court must remain in Alexinac because Alexinac is a large municipality, because in that Alexinac, the court was founded 100 and more years ago, because Alexinac, as one of the territorial largest municipalities in the Republic, has a huge number of objects, has more than 70 villages on its territory, very dissociated, because as a municipality that has 60,000 inhabitants, Ražanj and Sokobanja, only 20 kilometers away, with about 15,000-20,000 inhabitants. So, it has all the characteristics of keeping that criminal court in Alexinco, of course, and all the other, basic, basic public prosecutor's office, for reasons that concern more than the consequences of the next decade or the next ten years. I will remind you only that after World War II, Serbia was mainly a country where the village population lived in strong villages. What did the communists do when they came to power in 1945? They banned the construction of infrastructure, they did not build schools, roads, mail, they did not allow basic conditions for life, and they built factories in large cities so that the entire young population would escape for economic reasons and go to cities. That's why today, after 50 or 60 years, villages are empty, the average age in villages is over 60 years, and you have over 100 villages that have disappeared in the last 15 years. What happens if these things happen? This may not affect the most what can, unfortunately, happen in Serbia in 20, 30 or 50 years, but it is a tendency. If you remove the courts in small municipalities... In these courts, people with higher education worked; with a new re-election, if someone works in Sokobanja as a judge, they may not be elected as judges in Sokobanja, but will have to look for a job somewhere outside of the Sokobanju, so with their family and with their children, who will finish their colleges tomorrow, they will have to flee to a bigger city. So we're going to encourage educated people to leave small communities because they can't find themselves in these environments, which will inevitably encourage the outpouring of the educated population, young people going into larger communities. You may have a similar situation in 20 or 30 years. I understand that the law's intensities to cut costs, to make rationalization, to be a more efficient state, more modern, more organized, that's all right, but let's do it in those environments that are most capable of it. Don't always hit the weakest and the hardest ones can handle it. Leave it in this Gage Han or in those devastated environments at least some basic things where people can find their careers and have their families live there. I'm afraid this way we won't come to the right solution. Shut down the Sokobanja court and transfer it to Zaječar. From Sokobanja to Zaječar there are at least 70 kilometers of very bad road. If no judge from Sokobanja, who lives in Sokobanja (even if he lives, he will be judged by all the surrounding municipalities), any judge from Zaječar will have to come to Sokobanj. Consider how much time it will take for that judge to come from Zaječar in Sokobanj and how much costs it will cost. It is much more rational and logical that there is a mistrial in Alexinac, from which Sokobanja is 20 or 25 kilometers away, and in half an hour or 25 minutes it comes by car. The judge will be able to leave Aleksinac in Sokobanj (if he does not already live there), finish the job and return to do another job in Aleksinc. This is how I'm afraid... I know you can't fool everyone and present the situation to the point, but this is one of the drastic examples and I think you can come out and adopt a amendment like this. I am sure that there are all reasons, and because of the tourist content of that municipality, and because of the number of inhabitants, close to the number of cases, there are entirely justified economic reasons for the amendment to be adopted and to remain a misdemeanor court in Aleksinec for the territory of the municipalities of Razanj and Sokobanja, with departments in those two places. This will certainly affect the efficiency of these courts and the reduction of costs, which will certainly occur if it is not as provided for in this amendment. This will encourage people who live in these environments, and have some education, to stay in those environments because they have reason to raise their children there. Otherwise, you will also be instigating a partial outflow of the population from the poorest environments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8752	I thank you, Mr. Lapčević, for both the reasons and the words of the minister. That is obviously the undivided position of all MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8753	Dear Presidents, Madam Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, by supporting the amendment of counterpart Lapčević, I use the right that New Serbia has to say a few words according to the Rules of Procedure. The fact that New Serbia has submitted only one amendment to this bill absolutely does not mean that we are satisfied with this law, on the contrary. We wanted to be constructive, because we are primarily opposition to this incompetent government, not the citizens of Serbia, but we want to warn of some things that I will once say about this speaker, at least as far as this law is concerned. I want to introduce a new dimension when we talk about this law and amendments to this law. Where is the equality of citizens here, where are the human rights of citizens? We at the NS Parliament Club have a few dozen letters of bitter citizens, judges and lawyers. One characteristic letter, I wouldn't quote here, but I would point out, it came from the municipality of Mininica. There's a very interesting case that the state or the Ministry of Justice in earlier years is involved in the renovating of the court, I think it's an old building, it might have some historical value, and now we're practically abolishing that court. Coli Lapcevic was talking about judges going to the judicial units, as lawmakers say, that citizens will not lose anything, everything will be the same, and I don't know why we changed it. To some small municipality like Bruce, such as Luciani, Mininica, the very mention of the abolition of some state institutions that relate to the image of the city and the history of the city... In the municipality of Gornji Milanovac, it seems to me, after 125 years, we now have a judicial unit. I point out the question – where are the human rights of citizens and the equality of citizens here? Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you must once understand that Serbia is not only Belgrade. Belgrade is Serbia and Serbia's most developed part, but Serbia is both Vojvodina, both Kosovo and Metohija, and Cačak, Bruce, Mininica, Babusnica, Užice. He asked fellow Lapčević, "If the judge travels from a great place to a place according to a new law, then a bad path, then late, who will answer there?" What if a citizen now has to travel to another city for a trial, and he gets hurt along the way, so he's got material damage, who's going to make up for it? After all, in the introduction of the law, Madam Minister, you haven't convinced us at all why this law is needed, why this is done. What kind of rationalization is that when more people are going to work now? Cruel centralisation is being carried out, as has been done all these years, even in the judiciary, to prove to someone that absolute centres are political, economic, financial, and judicial authorities only possible in Belgrade, a mile in diameter of this hall. I say you will have to understand very quickly that Serbia and Nis, and Cačak, and Kruševac, and Kraljevo, and Bruce are like a small municipality. It is a municipality in which the last few years, as far as infrastructure is concerned, have been invested to keep citizens in those areas. If you now remove them from an institution called the municipal court, you degrade them, you direct them to solve their problems, unfortunately or do not give God, perhaps in another way. Imagine the 80-year-old people, who are usually about to drown (ma'am, dummies, one Serbian localism) who have been tried for 20-30 years, now have to travel 80, 90 or 100 kilometers to prove what they think is right and what they think is justice. What do you think if they don't have the money to pay a lawyer to go to that trial with them? So, I'm potentialing here a question... Well, then they will solve it themselves, as many times, unfortunately, in Serbia, but this is the first time that the state both declared and in principle and through one law practically supports such a way of resolving conflicts between people. I know this is almost unchangeable, and I know that many MPs here have submitted amendments trying to change something. New Serbia has submitted only one amendment, and I must remind all of you and the public that in this meeting New Serbia, the party whose amendments were most accepted by various ministries, which says that we have endured meaningful and fair, so to speak, amendments, although all amendments are fair. So we wanted to fix the various laws here on the agenda. This law is irreparable and it is generally wrong and will cost the citizens of Serbia. Some other government and some other assembly will have to change this law in general. That's New Serbia's attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8754	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Milan Lapcevic has submitted an amendment requesting that the municipal court be held in Aleksinec, if I understand correctly. He defended his amendment very well and I don't want to comment on it. I just want to make one correction. I suppose Mr. Lapcevic did it on purpose, but because of the people of Lazarets and the public, I want to say that he made an inadequate comparison between Aleksinac and Lazarets, bringing here that Lazarec is a small municipality with 10,000 inhabitants. The public works for you too, Lazarevic is a municipality that has more than 60,000 inhabitants and 60km away from Belgrade. So it's not a small municipality and it's not with 10,000 residents. I was obliged to make this public so it wouldn't be misunderstood that Lazarus had some privilege. No, it's simply a large municipality, 60km away from Belgrade, had and retained the Municipal Infringement Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8756	Thank you. If no one is answering for a word anymore, then, on the basis of Article 85, I set a break of up to half three because the meeting of the President of the Assembly is under way with the heads of the parliamentary groups on the agreement for further afternoon, evening work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8757	We continue work in the afternoon session. I convey the announcement by the National Assembly President, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, of the content of the meeting with the presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's parliamentary groups: today, 17:45, a direct transfer of the National Assembly session due to the match transfer between Serbia and Croatia from the European Handball Championship will not be possible. It is suggested that we continue to work normally and that RTS broadcasts in delayed transmission after 20.15 or 20.30 hours, and up to 22 hours, part of the session between 17.45 and 20.20 hours. We'd be working, say, to finish the amendment, up to 20.00-20.15 hours, that depends on our mutual agreement, so that we can keep the time to broadcast and delay the transmission. That is information, almost all parliamentary groups have reached agreement on this and because of this agreement, and on the basis of Article 85(5), I am extending the session's work today and after 18 hours. In the debate on details in the morning part, we stopped at Article 2 – an amendment submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. I was told that Mr. Milisav Petronijevic answered the word. He's finished his presentation. Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8758	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to begin my presentation despite the fact that there is no Madam Minister present, but I hope she will join us in a few minutes. This amendment of ours refers to the establishment of a mistrial in Backo Topoli. I will also talk about this particular amendment and I will explain to you why we consider it important to form a misdemeanor court in Backo Topoli. Before that, let me say a few sentences in general regarding this proposed law on the seats of courts and public prosecutors. I have no intention of repeating what I said once before in the principle debate, but the most important things from this address I will still have to repeat, since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given a negative opinion on this amendment and on all other amendments to the Alliance of the Duchy of Hungarians. A week ago, about, or maybe a little bit more, I said that the SVM would be able to support the law on the seats of courts and public prosecutors only on condition that our amendments were accepted. We did not want to present this as a condition, as a kind of threat to the government and members of the ruling coalition, but we wanted to point out that we believe that MPs should primarily represent the interests of citizens, the interests of voters who have the opportunity to be in the National Assembly. If you want, I can formulate it in such a way that we must represent the interests of those municipalities, cities or regions whose peoples we are. As for SVM, regardless of whether we are currently part of the ruling coalition or we are opposition, we will never support a single law that, according to our deep conviction, will be opposed to the interests of those citizens that we want to represent in the National Assembly. This law, in its proposed form, according to our deep conviction, is against the citizens of Vojvodina, against citizens of the entire Republic of Serbia, because this bill is trying to introduce a rationalisation that is simply irrational. This rationalisation is irrational because it suggests reducing the number of basic courts, i.e. municipal courts from 134 to 38 and reducing the number of infringement authorities from 173 to 45. It is simply unacceptable to have only eight basic courts in Vojvodina. It is unacceptable for this rationalization to become irrational. It's a very similar situation with criminal courts. That is why we have tabled amendments wishing to improve this proposed text of the bill, and these amendments concern the introduction of a special criminal court in Backo Topoli and the basic court in Backo Topoli, Senti and Vienna. We don't think these solutions are exaggerating, in the sense that they don't disturb the entire system of the proposed law on the seat of courts and public prosecutors. We don't want to tear down the whole system and the concept of this law, and we don't want to introduce 10, 15 or 20 new criminal courts or basic courts, but we want to preserve those courts, whether it's criminal or basic courts, whose survival is rational, moreover, not only rationally but also necessary. Of course we are aware that it is not possible to adopt only our amendments. Of course we are aware that it is not possible for you to bring three new courts into the territory of the AP Vojvodina without doing so in proportion to Serbia and other areas of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we believe it would be rational for the government of the Republic of Serbia to accept these amendments to SVM which are rational, and also to accept some amendments by our colleagues who have proposed the preservation of some courts in Serbia, the preservation of some courts in central Serbia's territory. We believe that this solution would not question the whole concept of judicial reform, which is really necessary. This solution would preserve those courts whose survival has both historical and geographical justifications. In addition, there is another group of arguments, which refers to the use of the language of national minorities in court proceedings, and there are some sociological reasons. When we talk about historical reasons, then I think you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia want to abolish courts that have been functioning for 150 and 200 years. There are such courts on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and on the territory of Serbia. On the other hand, when I say that there are geographical reasons and arguments for the preservation of certain courts, then I mean that the bill foresees, in the sphere of the basic courts, that only courts in Sremska Mitrovica, Novi Sad, Sombor, Subotics, Zrenjanin, Kikindi, Vrsac and Pancheva survive on the territory of the AP. It's eight municipalities or eight cities on the territory of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina. If you look at the geographic map, you'll see that a huge hole is being created in the middle of Vojvodina. You will see that between Saturday and Novi Sad, on the one hand, and between Somboro and Kickinda, on the other hand, no single court is scheduled. It's a huge hole in Serbia's map. It's a huge hole in the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. The creation of such a hole calls into question the equal treatment of citizens in court and raises the principle of the right to access to justice for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's exactly why we suggested these three courts. We could have suggested the survival of some other courts, for example, the Ada Court, the Canjiza Court and some other courts, but we had understanding of the concept of the Ministry of Justice, of the concept of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we didn't want to submit amendments regarding the preservation of some other courts that are also very important. We believe that our proposal can fit into the entire system of the proposed law on the seat of courts and public prosecutors. When I say that the third group of arguments for the survival of these courts is a guarantee of use in the official use of the language of national minorities, then I mean that by abolishing these courts, it is a question of using the language of national minorities in court proceedings. That's inadmissible. I cannot agree with Madam Minister that whether the language of national minorities will be directly used in a court procedure or used through interpreters is irrelevant. Every citizen of the country has the right to interpret all judicial proceedings in the Republic of Serbia. It does not matter if it is a member of a Romanian national minority or a Hungarian national minority or a Norwegian who is found in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and who is to participate in any kind of judicial procedure? As a result, we cannot agree whether the right is used through a court interpreter or directly, since this is the right, the right to the official use of the language, guaranteed by the Constitution and the Law on the Official Use of the Language of 1991. When I say that the fourth group of arguments to preserve these courts is a sociological reason, then I think of the following: Serbia is today, unfortunately, the most centralised state in Europe. We talk about it very much in the congregation, because we want to change that. A law should be passed on the property of local self-government. You need to give consent to the Duke's statutes, etc. Not that it's not going in that direction, but that some courts are being abolished. More than a hundred municipal courts are being abolished. If in these municipalities, in these cities you abolish the courts, then these cities, these municipalities, will lose all those features by which they can objectively be called urban environments. That's very bad. I will return to a concrete amendment. We're proposing the preservation of a misdemeanor court in Backo Topoli. We think there's a lot of arguments for that. Local self-government, SO Baka Topola reached conclusions on 30 October 2008. In these conclusions, it also reads: "General criteria of the Ministry, such as territorial and geographical areas, the proximity of major traffic stations, the frequency of traffic accidents, multinational populations and its numbers, as well as the specificity of these municipalities, the work and conduct of judicial proceedings in several languages, the number and complexity of cases in processing, the number of catastrian municipalities, the tradition of about 150 years of existence and the continuous work of the court in Bačka Topoli guarantee a legal basis for this. "Unfortunately, representatives of the ministry of justice do not view these arguments as justified. I don't know what other arguments should be made in order for them to change their minds, but I still hope that they will change their minds, that these amendments will be adopted, that some more amendments of the opposition MPs will be adopted, and then we will have 40 basic courts instead of 34. The whole system will not be disrupted, but we will get a modern European judicial system from 1 January 2009. Finally, I want to repeat that unless these amendments are supported we will not be able to vote for this law, because we will not vote against citizens and against voters from the territory of these municipalities from which we come. In that case, the only possibility is that this law is withdrawn from the legal procedure. Or you may have some substitute for us from the opposition parties, which I doubt, because all the opposition parties have so far said they will not support this law. First of all, I would say that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP, said that because of the same argument, the LDP cannot support this law. If so, and surely so, then this law, unless our amendments are adopted, will be adopted by some opposition party, which was not for ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which will be a very bad signal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8759	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic, and then a national envoy, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8760	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Malovic, continues crime in the Kragujeva municipality court, led by Miroslav Tomic, the court's president, in agreement with the citizen Tomislav Nikolic. Today, the second anti-law and anti-constitutional ruling of the Kragujevac District Court arrived, and of the larger ones composed of judges who decided, thus violating the Constitution and the law, and who participated in the kidnapping of ten Serbian Radicals' parliamentary mandates in Kragujevac. So the larger one is made up of judges: Obrena Jezdić, president of the council, Aleksandra Blanuša and Simonida Miloradovic, members of the council. Namely, the SRS committee and the chairman of our municipal board Zlatko Radic of Lapov filed a complaint to the District Court in Kragujevac over the fact that the Lapovo municipal assembly did not decide to suspend the mandate for three former members of the SRS and in accordance with the Law on Local Elections. Documentation has been submitted, and this: the court has approved a contract to make their mandate available to the Serbian Radical Party, on whose list they are elected, resignations and authority for the applicant. In this case, i.e. in specific cases, I was authorised by the SRS to conclude the contract both in Kragujevac and Lapovo, as well as in the whole of Šumadia. The court went (and I talked about it a few days ago, Mrs. Malovic), or one of the council members, Alexander Blanuša, in his insolence in breaking the law so far that he asked Mr. Zlatko Radic for a supplement of the appeal. Although Mr Radic, in accordance with the Law on Local Elections and Article 49, in his appeal the court called for an unequivocally established factual state, which is that these apostates, once members of the SRS, signed and signed a contract with the SRS, submitted a non-revocable resignation to the parliamentary post and was accompanied by the authority for the applicant, Alexander Blanuš, apparently under the orders of the District Court of Miroljub Tomic, asked for the addition and asked in writing Mr Radic whether he wanted the District Court in Kragujevac to declare that the decision of the Lapovo municipality had to be annulled or the decision was made. For people (a few days ago I talked about it) who never took any law into their hands, who don't even use their electoral rights, who are intrigued by these cases of scandalous termination of the electoral will of citizens... which is a serious crime, so we against these three judges, as well as Radomirka Nikolic and the other two members of the other council, filed criminal charges, but the municipal public prosecutor is not responding, nor is the republican public prosecutor. We did that on October 31st and asked for legal protection. It's a clear law for anyone who first opens and looks at Article 49, what it says there. It says there that every councilman in the municipality's unit in case something like this happens – that the congregation, although it should do so... Because the Lapovo Community Assembly, just like the Kragujevac City Assembly, has knowingly, tended to enter into a violation of the law in that case the court should act in accordance with the law. In that Article 49. The law, and you know it very well, Mrs. Malovic, does not raise the question that in its appeal this committee member who has the right to do so, any committee member, in this case it is Zlatko Radic, should state that it happened, that and that. It does not determine Zlatko Radić's factual state, but the District Court in Kragujevac, which was to, on the basis of the collected documentation on the day of the session in Lapovo, have insight into the state of affairs, which is that all the conditions laid down in Article 47 have been met. The law on local elections: with certified contracts, with signed resignations, irrevocable, I say again, because they are members of the 46th impeachment, and these are irrevocable, and with the authority of the applicant. So, due to the fact that they are publicly branded as criminals in the Serbian judiciary and that it is the only court in Serbia that takes over the mandates of the Serbian Radical Party, I repeat again, because of the friendly (or whatever time it will show) ties between Nikolic and Miroljub Tomic, we are in a situation that today... So the second in a row of judgments, they still say, imagine – in the name of the people. In the name of what people? The citizens of Lapov who voted for the list of SRS, the first on the list, Zlatko Radic, who is also the applicant of this complaint, or the citizens of Kragujevac who voted for the list of SRS and for the first on the list, that is, my smallness? What are we talking about? Today we had a session of the City of Kragujevac Assembly and we left it after our warning, another, the Kragujevac city authorities not to play by the will of the citizens. We'll wait for the procedure of business time to re-enter the process ordered by Article 47. Law on local elections. But don't let them think... That is why I am telling you, Mrs Malovic, and in writing I will ask you, as an authorised person and person who has concluded contracts with those who have given their mandate unrelentingly, to receive a report on what is being done in the law of the Serbian judiciary, which is the District Court in Kragujevac, led by Miroljub Tomic. I even heard that they dared say so much – yeah, so some judges from the assembly pay phone are being hacked. No, I'm going to praise them for taking the mandates of the SRS and saying, "A violation of the law," because it's a deal by Nikolic and Tomic, yes, I can; I'm going to take your transgé-frange, service, etc. What's this about? Otherwise, this Miroljub Tomic president, while we are already talking about this issue, of this law, Mrs Malovic, claims to be elected President of the Kragujevac Court of Appeal. It will be the most branded personality everywhere and in every place, by every honest man. Today, this philosopher Sasa Milenić, president of the Kragujeva City Assembly, whom you all understand perfectly what he is saying, as well as the public, is convinced every time he comes out for a pay phone – but you know... I explain nicely to him as a man, I calculate a man is a normal, average intelligence that he can understand, I tell him – but these are the mandates of the Serbian Radical Party. He says yes, but the bearer of the list was Tomislav Nikolic. I then explain to him, since I see that a man of mild importance has no or no idea, I say to him – well, unfortunately, not for long, the President of the SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj is in the Hague box; when he returns here these mice, this yellow crutches post office, Nikolic, will not be allowed to beg his nose on this door, not to gage as he is now passing through and running into me. And he says, "How is it that when it was (it)?" I say, well, it was technically impossible, Milenić, that for every municipality, Sječanj, Žabara, Kragujevac, Lapovo, Batocino, every day one of us goes to the dungeon of the Hague case, so that Dr Vojislav Seselj, with his beautiful signature (but not with this scribbling, doesn't know what it says, someone "t" or "t" or "t", some three curved lines), signed the authority for the bearer of some electoral list. He says, "Yeah, so that's the reason." No, but the reason was because he was very important, so we needed it, because he visited some local community in Kragujevac; he or his feminised, painted, who dared to say, "Here are some citizens," referring to the SRS council members, "who are not confirmed by the mandate". No, but you ran from both your left legs, and from Erdech, and from the apartments, and from Grošnica, from the Great Field, and you invested a lot of money, energy and knowledge. Don't, people, make fun of that kind of thing. Zlatko Radic, who has been a member of the Serbian Chetnik Movement of the SRS, has actually been a Seselj Chetnik and Radical since he was 16, from the moment Dr Vojislav Seselj and his Chetniks were imprisoned in the centre of Lapov, is the applicant, Mrs Malovic, of this appeal. He was the first candidate on the list when Lapova citizens decided on the elections and gave us confidence to get those nine mandates, rounding up the list that said SRS, number 1, Zlatko Radic. The same is true of the republican electoral list: SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, number 1, Dr Vojislav Seselj. Well, he wanted this one, as Pera Jojic says, "Zumbul", to be number one, but he can't. He was number two until the moment they took him under their Americans, British, tycoons, and all those who paid him. It just couldn't. Well, then those hearty statements -- oh, my God, I'm gonna get cancer because of Vojislav Seselj, and I'm breaking my arms, and I'm playing games on the computer in the cabinet on the second floor. The man just learned to match those cards... You know, it's her game, playing my niece, one being three years old, one being seven years old, one being twelve, and these kids being over three or four years old. Now, he knew he was playing cards, so when you go in and you ask him something serious he says -- let me finish this now, with myself like that. I'm with myself, I'm with others, I'm on Goc, I'm with Miki Rakic, I'm across the street, one million, one million, then the other, and the third... I'll still cry, believe me, I couldn't sleep all night; I ask a respected Belgrade architect yesterday, I say – you see, that's not 600,000 euros, as I said. The journalists of that "Kekec" (you know, it's that leaf named after his publisher Kekec) took pictures and say, "Ow, that's a humble little house." From what? From the MP's salary? I heard that poor guy say somewhere, I'm thinking in one daily list, "If Natasha, Verica and Gordan were a little less buying rags," I guess what I have on me, these humble clothes, "they could have done it, too." The parliamentary salary buys a decent and minimal suit, but some of us live in 35 squares, like my pettyness, and support those in their family who do not have normal means, such as parents who have poor and poor pensions in this society, and do not go on vacations, no car ergels, no arrogant behavior and no changing furniture in the apartment every year, when you show up once a year, invited. What's this about? About thieving, about defamation, about immorality, about crime. We won't take it. Today, an honest citizen of Batocina told me – maybe we were confused, maybe we thought it wasn't exactly what you were talking about. But today, the whole of Kragujevac, the whole of Šumadija and all of Serbia know that this is a direct political interference in the decisions of the judicial authorities, headed by Miroljub Tomic. This Tomic, not only is he known for this, that he entered into what never happened in Serbia... We have decisions (also on behalf of the people, but by law, Mrs Malovic) of the Sremskimitrova Court; and so the court in Nis, and so all the mandates in Aleksinac were returned, so the radical authority was established despite the attempts of the coup. They thought, however, Milovan Radovanovic is alone, we kidnapped the councilmen, and if the court should return, they have no one to put on the list. They sobered up, returned and established power, the normal power of responsible people. This can't work like this. That is why I ask you, Mrs Malovic, to request an urgent report, in accordance with your powers, on the work of the Kragujeva District Court. We will continue our political struggle. As I see it, and as this Miki (is called) Rakic alfa and the omega in this country and manages the entire system of government, some will be released down the water, but not the glued one, which is a little shallow, but in the deeper one in which they will not be able to swim, regardless of how much money they took, stabbed Vojislav Seselj in the back and betrayed the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8761	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Unless MP Zoran Krasic doesn't want 30 seconds? He won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8762	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, the Liberal Democratic Party has tabled two groups of amendments related to the network of courts and prosecutors. We have consciously submitted one group of amendments related to the Duke's Network of Courts and Prosecutors, which are very similar to the amendments submitted by the parties of national minorities, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians and others. We have, above all, been led by the reason that we do not accept the national key and do not accept political concessions from national minorities. We have come from the assumption that this amendment that we are now talking about is such that it represents the interests of all citizens from the territory of the courts to which the amendment applies. This interest is, above all, related to the marked legal and institutional tradition that exists in Vojvodina in terms of courts, the seats of those courts to which the amendment applies. Therefore, when we submitted a similar amendment, we were in fact in favour of the amendment of colleagues from the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, primarily for rational reasons, because of the citizens' interests, undermining, all citizens, regardless of which nation they belong. We truly believe and know that it was an interest and colleague of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians to submit this amendment. We expect, given that we are supporting this amendment, that the ruling coalition also values the amendment from a point of view and the need to adopt it, to meet the specific interests of the people of Vojvodina. So, it's not just some occult action, or extorted decision-making in this complicated coalition in power; it's supposed to be a rational political decision, not just a compromise to preserve this very strange, complicated and extensive coalition. I therefore further underline that the LDP supports the amendment of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians and the parliamentary club of national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8763	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Radovan Radovanovic. After him is the word of MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8764	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as of 5 November, to remind you, since this set of judicial laws is on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for the first time the Social Democrats League MPs of Vojvodina publicly present their views on the proposed laws of the promoter and the public. For the sake of that public I am obliged to say that we have not kept silent all this time, but we have our views, some of them you will hear now and a little later from me and from other MPs, we have presented to the representatives of the ministries at every opportunity. To our satisfaction, part of these remarks is embedded in one of the bill's proposals. So, the motions of the law on the regulation of courts, on judges, on the High Council of the judiciary, on the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the State Council of Prosecutors, on amendments and additions to the Law on Violents are, as they are proposed, absolutely acceptable and evidence of the approximation of our judiciary to European values and systems, and therefore, in the day of voting, we will support them safely and unreservedly. How we will vote on the law on the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors will depend on how the proposing will refer to our amendments. The first of the amendments we have submitted is the following: in Article 2(1). The draft law behind point 2) is added a new point 3) which reads: "A misdemeanor court in Backo Topola for the territory of the municipalities of Backo Topol and Mali Ijoš, with the court department in Mali Ijoš". Further, after point 11), a new point 12 is added, which reads: "A mistrial in India for the territory of the municipalities of Inji and Stara Paz, with the court department in Stara Pazova". These other items are technically edited in the draft law. As you had the opportunity to hear, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina did not, like most MPs and MPs, only take care of the environments where it is represented in power, but rather want to correct, in our view, the visible lack of proposed law in relation to the entire territory of the AP Vojvodina. First of all, I would like to say that we are offended by the fact that, in an explanation for the rejection of our amendment that you have delivered to us, it turns out that instead of Backa Topola, you mention Bucka Palanka, so it turns out that the promoter didn't even read our amendment, but the apriori has rejected it. Why do we think there should be a mistrial on the territory of these two municipalities? If there are any rules why in any territory infringement courts are established, then one of the things must be the travel network and the passage of Corridor 10 through the territory of all four municipalities I mention in this amendment, both the E-75 times and the railway lines, and in the absence of a number of kilometers on the territory of all these four municipalities, which is about 80 km this time, i.e. Corridor 10, with most of the settlements on its territory passing through and two major regional roads for our country, which are the regional roads M-21 and M-22. What we expect from Corridor 10 is that both in road and in rail traffic in the coming period, there will be an intensification of traffic and, therefore, the need for us to have misdemeanor courts in these two cities. We heard about the national composition in these four municipalities from colleagues from the Union of Duchy Hungarians who explained their amendment. Traditionally, the AP Vojvodina territory is spoken in Serbian and five other official languages. In the territory of the four municipalities, apart from the Serb municipality, Hungarian municipalities of Mali Ijoš and Bačka Topola are present in the territory of the municipality, far more than 60% of the population speaks Hungarian; and in the territory of the municipalities of Indji and Stara Paz, ten percent of the population speaks native Slovak. About the depravity of these four municipalities and how our citizens would travel 60 miles and more to a criminal court, anyone can see when they look at our country's map. The tradition of the judiciary in these areas, we just heard from a colleague Popovic, is more than 140 years old. So in both cities not only certain types of criminal courts or law enforcement authorities exist for more than 140 years. What saddened me, in the introduction of the minister and some fellow MPs, is the argument that in these areas it is necessary to abolish the misdemeanor, basic or any court because the number of cases in those courts has been reduced. So, in those environments where citizens take care of their behavior, we're specifically talking about criminal courts, public order and peace, or traffic, or anything that touches this court, these citizens need to be punished. I'm going to say very quickly why I think they're being punished; not just me, but all of them with a list. So, those who act in accordance with the laws, we take away the right to have some of our needs in front of the authorities of the state, in particular the courts, come true in the territory of cities or municipalities where they live. Also, I was surprised to note that basic or criminal courts should be abolished in these small environments numbering between 50,000 and 100,000 inhabitants, because lawyers from major centres, for example. from Belgrade, they can't get a dispute or a case leading up to those courts. And can lawyers from those small communities get any kind of dispute in Belgrade or any major centre? So that argument certainly can't stand. Why do I think, if such a bill is adopted, it is also a handicap for these environments, and probably for some other environments mentioned by other fellow Members of the People? Among other things, and because of the following: because our mouths are full of decentralisation at all levels and in all areas, and it seems to me that this government, whether by momentum or on purpose, continues where it stood in the previous two mandates, is that all such important things for the citizens of our community are grouped and centralized in as many major centres as possible. I fall among those who believe that the system should go after life. We don't have to pull life out of every environment and group it into as large centres as possible. What happens when Buck Topola, Indjia or some other middle doesn't have a mistrial? It's simple, very soon, the judges who judge will go to live in those places where their offices are located. There are departments, but the departments are coming, and his office is located where his seat is of a misdemeanor or primary court. Along with the judge, his family will go, and I don't need to remind you that if it's a judge, it's usually his wife, or husband, an educational worker, a lawyer, it's usually in our midst. From these families, we have children who are largely educated at our universities or are already academic citizens. They all go to bigger centers and get away with it this way from all the environments in which such courts are abolished. Where are the lawyers going? Well, where's the seat of the court. The largest number, as well as the judges, will move its offices to the territory of these municipalities; there are 40 and more law offices in each of these municipalities. Most of them, especially these younger ones, will go to those areas where seats are both infringing and other courts and prosecutors, because there will be far, far more work. Finally, our experience in centralization in other areas, for example in the MUP, is about like this: every day I meet police officers in the territory of the Bačka Topol municipality who show me their equipment, their wind-dwellers that are torn up, show me cars that are unusable and point to a lack of equipment so they can do their job successfully. Why is that? Because Back Topola is a police station, and Subotica is an organ of internal affairs. I don't blame Subotica for the maternal relationship, but I blame a state that doesn't see that by pulling all the institutions out of the middle that have between 50,000 and 100,000 inhabitants from those environments we're building a province. I hope that the Minister and representatives of the Ministry will find a way to discuss this law and see if this amendment is acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8765	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. After that, the People's Messenger Laszlo Varg.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8766	Mrs. Comic, I have come forward on this amendment, but I want to point out in principle, because I think this argument that has been heard about this amendment is actually an argument that will be heard as long as this agenda point is in the Assembly. What's this about? It is a bill that changes the existing organisational structure of courts and prosecutors. Of course, there are now acquired positions, and it certainly lures attention, primarily the environment, the judiciary, and, as can be seen, a large number of MPs. It seems to me that only the MPs of the G17 Group here plus have not submitted the amendments. Almost all other parliamentary groups have submitted amendments, even the chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, has submitted three amendments; the government has rejected these amendments, and I see that Srdjan's amendment has passed. I just want to point out one thing, very important to me. You may also have noticed that the president of the Legislative Committee on Amendments uses the same argument used by SRS MPs, LDP, DSS, NS, some of their amendments you adopted, some of ours adopted, uses the argument that Riza Halimi uses, Pastor uses the same argument. All MPs took something as a criterion, as a criterion, to preserve something that could be called acquired law, acquired organisation of courts and prosecutors. I think there's been a big mistake in the bill itself. Now let me explain to you what she's looking at. It is not quite so that you take the standards that apply in Belgium, the Netherlands or some country that corresponds to Serbia by population, 7.5 million inhabitants, approximately correspond to this territory and that their standards, population, number of cases, etc., mix into something and extract from it something that could be a criterion, so on that basis execute this territorial organisation of justice. It's not. For this Democratic Party, I have some things to show you. Europe and the euro have two generic names: the first -- the name for the river, and the second -- a broad field. The Balkans means hills. There can be no organization of state, government and organization of people's lives in a wide field the same as in the hills. This is an example that is clear to everyone. That's why I used it. Of course, other reasons can be used here. Just to draw your attention, these last countries have been surviving a severe agony in this tranche of EU accession for a year, both Bulgaria and Romania. What someone says -- a European standard to paint across the indiga in Serbia -- would be a disaster. You take something as a criterion, and you don't even want to think about it. If you've already taken this as a criterion, why didn't you take as a criterion what the salaries were to the judges and prosecutors; why didn't you take the example that every judge, practically, has a cabinet, so that there are these people who prepare the case, who later make draft judgments in another way, etc.? Why didn't you take the example and ask what the administrative matter is, what's the civil matter, what's the criminal thing? If you don't take all this into account, you're already taking into account the data, then you get something that doesn't communicate with reality, which is exactly this bill. All of them are aware of that, regardless of the MPs of the parties that form the government have submitted two or three amendments, something has been adopted, something is not, but they are also aware. And they suffer pressure, as Milovan suffers pressure, Lapcevic suffers pressure, and Balint also suffers pressure. People suffer pressure, not in terms of pressure to threaten, but people open a normal question – what happened, so now it's gone? I think you've wrongly made an invitation to a constitutional basis for this law. The motion for this law was found by the constitutional basis in Article 97, paragraphs 2 and 16 and Article 143. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is fine for Article 143, but Article 97 of points 2 and 16 speaks of areas, dealings with the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. What you had to call for when this law was passed is Article 99(7). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is the provision that says the National Assembly is required, is authorised to pass the law and arrange an area. Because of the public, which may be denied for very important information because very often in some media there are some people who are MPs and talk about obstruction and some non-essential topics being conducted in the National Assembly, they draw public attention to what is the jurisdiction of the National Assembly: 1st and changes to the Constitution, 2st decision on the change of the borders of the Republic of Serbia, 3st decrees the Republic's referendum, 4st confirms international contracts when the law provides for the obligation of their confirmation, 5st decision on war and peace and declares war and emergency status, 6st oversees the work of the Security Service and only at 7th place - adopts laws and other general acts from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, 8st gives prior consent to the statute of the auto province, 9s adopts the defence strategy, 10th adoption of the development plan and the spatial plan, 11th adoption of the budget and the final account (the final account of the vastly this assembly is not adopted), on the 12th part of the Government's the wrongful part of the 12th part. When you criticize some obstruction here, please remember, point seven is passing the law. If the government couldn't appeal to a constitutional basis for a law like this... I remind you, this is Article 143(2), that is Article 157(1) and Article 99(1) point (7). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this you need to find a constitutional basis for such a bill. When I say "this bill of law," I mean the bill with this name. I think you're really wrong about the criteria. I'm surprised you've avoided a criterion that's very often called reality with you. At the time when the ideologist was Zoran Zivkovic, when you bring him all the historical, logical, philosophical, legal, political, sociological arguments, he says – but the reality is that America is the strongest and that we have to play as America says. The argument of reality means that there is some material force that respects neither the Constitution nor the law, but I must tell you, no common sense. The argument of reality could be interpreted in another way, which is – tradition, dissension, territorial layout of the population and the need to provide protection and human rights through courts and the interests of all citizens and legal entities. It can be concluded that the court must be available to a citizen and effectively exercise judicial authority. If that's the case, then you could have made a completely different organization. If you count on this organization to make savings, you won't make them. If, with a hundred and a hundred and so forth, you bring it down to 30 and something, 40 and so on, just don't forget that you've already inserted a few new courts, so when you've got these new types of courts, types of courts, like offenders, like appeals, you're going to get about the same number as in the existing organization, from the point of view of human beings and personal solution. This only seems like a principle debate at first sight. I just want to point out to you that something that is a Western European criterion cannot be applied to us, as you cannot apply the Western European criteria of your relationship to work to apply to us, when you have in mind that we are not part of the Western European criteria of salary height. If you're applying something, what would these children say, then full, apply everything. According to some discussions, we are ahead of the European Union. I suggest you take Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic out, so if Tadic wins this competition for the most beautiful, the smartest, and him to take out. Let him handle the situation in the EU and in America. You know how Mladjan Dinkic would fix America's banking system? He would never recover again. Djelic, to take care of US public finances, like we do. For two years, he listened to Milo Jezimirovic, and then wrote a criminal report to move her, as he allegedly became an expert on the budget system. It's primitiveism, it's proscaluca, it's not civilizational fluid. We have to fight for civilizational fluids. Civilization fluids are not related to color, but since January 25, 2001, the yellow color is a negative association. In the follow-up to this session, the MPs who have tabled the amendments will issue a number of arguments as to why a court should remain in their district, in their municipality, in their neighbourhood. Gentlemen, you're doing a dead end. This bill was made by another group of people, who had nothing to do with the Department of Justice. The greatest irony of these laws in the area of justice is that both the previous and this authority are calling for some judicial reform strategy. I have to tell you that people who were at the ministry at the time, when they heard that it was being prepared and what it was supposed to look like, were not allowed to say publicly, but they had to admit to me that it was a disaster for the Serbian judiciary. Why does this have to go like this? Because it's paid from abroad, because those who are in power have to do whatever is required from abroad to prove that conditions have been met to be accepted where we will never be accepted. Remember, we'll never be admitted there. You can do whatever you want on the left, Europe is pitched: the European Union and future great Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8767	Mr. Laslo Varga's MP has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8768	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the floor under this amendment for the reason that it is very rarely that the ZES parliamentary group submits a single amendment, a parliamentary group giving the Minister of Justice. Practically, the same amendment was tabled by the MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, and one opposition party, the LDP, has submitted a practically identical amendment, and one part of our amendment fully agrees. In that sense, I think it's very rare. That should be one good reason why the Justice Ministry should think carefully about accepting this amendment. In my presentation, I will apostrophe some municipalities and some cities, but not with any bad intentions, and that doesn't mean I'm in favour of abolishing any criminal court in any municipality. On the contrary, I believe that all law enforcement courts contained in the bill should survive, but that network should also be expanded for a number of reasons. First of all, I'm going to talk only about the part of the law relating to criminal courts, and the part of the law relating to courts and the public prosecutor's office I will, of course, talk about when amendments relating to these members are on the agenda. So, as far as criminal courts are concerned, I want to say that this part of the law does not completely ignore the fact that Serbia is a multinational state. The network of misdemeanor courts is not entirely contrary to that fact. There are, of course, some problems, some of my colleagues will talk about it, but this part of the law in this aspect deserves only a partial, not a complete criticism. What is to criticise is the fact that between the arguments on the basis of which the bill and the bill itself are drawn up, there is a contradiction. In the light of the proposal for a law, it states that the bill is based on these criteria: the inflow of regular cases, based on the area of jurisdiction of the court, based on distance, on the basis of the travel network, is based on the proximity of the borders. I want to prove in my presentation that these very criteria are not respected when it comes to certain areas of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, an amendment aimed to survive, i.e. to establish a misdemeanor court in Backo Topola for the territory of Bačka Topola and Mali Ijoš municipalities deserves attention and is worthy of support. Namely, when it comes to the inflow of the case, which I think is directly related to the number of inhabitants, or most depends on the number of inhabitants, on the potential number of users of "services" of misdemeanor courts, I want to quote some data. For example, we have proposed the establishment of a violation court in Backo Topoli for the territory of the municipalities of Backo Topola and Mali Ijoš with a total of 52,000 inhabitants. For example, Raška envisions the establishment of a misdemeanor court for 27,000 inhabitants; Gornji Milanovac envisions the establishment of a misdemeanor court for 48,000 inhabitants. So in both cases, these municipalities, i.e. those areas, are much, much smaller than what we have proposed in our amendment, i.e. what my colleague Radovanovic, since I am talking about his amendment, suggested in his amendment. There are other examples that are also good examples, such as: Sjenica, where there are about 28,000 inhabitants or Preshevo where there are 35,000 inhabitants. These are good examples because in this case the promoter took care of the national composition of the population, on the one hand, and when it comes to Presevo probably also about the passage of Corridor 10 near the city, i.e. the municipality. However, the same criterion, on the one hand the national composition, on the other hand the passage or existence of Corridor 10, is not respected in the case of Backa Topola and Mali Ijoš. That's what my colleague, Mr. Radovanovic, was talking about. In many cases and the next criterion, i.e. Distance, not respected. There are 22 kilometers between Raška and Novi Pazar, which is one example, and there are infraction courts both in Novi Pazar and in Raška. On the other hand, between Gornji Milanovac and Cačka, there are 35 kilometers between Sudotica and Bačka Topola, and between Subotica and Mali Ijoša 46 kilometers. So much more. I think it's quite clear that this criterion is not respected. It is not respected, and it is extremely strange, another criterion – close to the border. Namely, the establishment of an infringement court in Senta, which is 38km from the border, is not foreseen for the existence of a misdemeanor court in Canjiza, which is 16km away from the border. It is simply acceptable for us to have a criminal court in this area, but then this criterion should not have been introduced into the bill at all. I think these are all strong, good arguments why it would be celibate to accept this amendment, and some of the other amendments that we proposed were MEPs, any other MPs. It is simple, and this can also be asked from the presentation of the MPs who spoke before me clearly, a practical question of respect for the fundamental rights of logic can be asked when this proposal is made up. I think it would be best if the motionor withdraws this bill and reconsiders or accepts a large number of amendments, which would, of course, not disrupt the whole concept, but that would ensure the existence of a rational network of criminal and basic courts and public prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8769	Thank you. The MPs Judita Popovic and Slobodan Maras together submitted to the 2nd amendment, with a correction. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the vice president of Mrs. Judita Popovic's assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8770	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, I will first and foremost read to you the government's explanation of why the LDP amendment to this Article 2nd Law on Networks of Courts and Prosecutors has not been adopted. He says: "The government does not accept the amendment for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendments of the National MPs Radovanović Milovanovic and Lapčević Milan to Article 2. It's a bill of law. "We list further and read the explanation why the amendment of Radovanovic Milovana was not accepted, it is said: "The government does not accept the amendment for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendments of the peoples' MPs Radovanović Milovanovic and Lapčević Milan as a member of 2. It's a bill of law. "Then we reach the amendment of Lapčević Milan, and I guess we'll come up with some explanation. It is said that the amendment of Parliamentarian RadovanovićMilovan to Article 2. The bill has not been passed and it is said, among other things, that, on the basis of the analysis mentioned, the distribution of judicial departments in relation to courts has been carried out, and we believe that the proposed network is more rational than the amendment proposal. “ This means that there are no arguments, for all three amendments have received the same explanation, or reasoning, zero. Since it's such an explanation, we have to start from the beginning. So, we have already pointed out that our amendment is in fact very similar to the amendment of the national minority MPs and the MP, Mr Radovanovic, and therefore we are only joining their proposal to adopt their amendments, and thus to adopt the LDP amendment. In particular, I would refer to the fact that a proposal of the Duke’s Statute should soon arrive in this assembly for consideration and adoption. I remind you that the Vojvodina Assembly has already decided on this statute. The statute, among other things, provides for new administrative districts in the territory of Vojvodina. So, administrative districts are with seats: in Bačka – Subotica and Sombor, in Banat – Kikinda, Vršac and Zrenjanin, and in Srem – Sremska Mitrovica. So it just confirms that it wasn't again taken care of what was the interest of Vojvodina. Currently in Vojvodina, there are administrative districts that were established a few years ago, and so centralist, therefore, are quite different administrative districts than those now proposed by the Duke's Statute. The network of courts and prosecutors is in fact relying on existing administrative districts, and the question is whether it will remain if Vojvodina's statutes are strengthened. So we're getting into a situation where we're making problems for ourselves in advance. We're doing a job that we're gonna have to do later on and fix. Vojvodina is again in a situation not to worry that it is a territory with certain economic, social, historical-traditional conditions that differ from the conditions that exist in other parts of the Republic of Serbia. The specificity of the Vojvodina is not taken into account, but is centralistically done by some kind of decentralisation and rationalization, now courts and prosecutors, and tomorrow, who knows what. Again, we are in a position to impose something that is foreign to Vojvodina, something that is not rational. We understand that the time has come to introduce savings, to do rationalization, that these are principles on the basis of which this law has been proposed, however, where is this principle of citizens' interest, the availability of justice and justice and courts for the citizens of Vojvodina? This proposal for a law does not give rise to the fact that this principle has been taken into account. If the answer was yes and the principle was taken into account, how is it to interpret the fact that Baka Topola is not taken as a special seat of the criminal court, but rather all comes down to Subotica; that the New Prince again attaches the Kickindi as the seat of the criminal court? We'll see that there's a big difference as far as territories are concerned, how to connect these spaces to each other, Back Topola and Saturday, and New Prince and Kickinda, and the more natural connection to Sainta. If it is normal for the New Prince, who is closer to Senti, as far as law enforcement courts are concerned, to be attached to the Kickindi, then why insist on that principle, on that condition for determining the seat of the courts? It is said that the spatial moment was also of influence when a network of courts and prosecutors was being made. In this case, it couldn't have been one of the ways to determine a rational solution because we can't better connect the New Prince to the Kickindo than the New Prince to the Sent. Bačka Topola, as a cultural and economically well-developed place, does not get the seat of a misdemeanor court, but needs to be attached to Subotica, which is so overloaded, and yet some kind of centralization is done. So, the bottom line is that Vojvodina doesn't ask itself. Its organs are obviously not consulted when it is passed and done by this kind of law, which are influenced by the territory of Vojvodina. It seems to me that this rationalization of the network of courts and the savings on the network of courts is being done at the expense of the citizens of Vojvodina. The Liberal Democratic Party cannot support this law on the network of courts and prosecutors precisely for these reasons that I have cited, because we believe that Vojvodina, as a special region, as an autonomous province, has the right to appreciate its social, economic, linguistic and other position. All of these are reasons that have been influenced by the fact that Vojvodina represents that province, an autonomous province, as it is said. Therefore, if that is true, then we do not see why the LDP amendment related to the network of courts and prosecutors would not be adopted, so why not make a shift in the treatment of Vojvodina. Because we've seen by a set of these judicial laws, Vojvodina comes down to half the members of the High Council of the judiciary, half the prosecutors, etc. Since the Republic of Serbia officially still has two autonomous provinces, if one member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary or the High Council of the Prosecutors, it is strange to predict only one member from autonomous provinces. Therefore, the Vojvodina wastes half. We're not satisfied with the treatment of Vojvodina, and it's really time for that to get in the way. I remind you once again, and that's one of the painful points of the Duke's courts, on the land books. Land's books have been abolished, the Duke's courts have run out of very serious indicators and the registration of ownership and owners, which represents one of the historical assets of the Vojvodina, the duchy courts and the citizens of Vojvodina. So we have a problem with that property rights registration. Unfortunately, it was done without consulting relevant experts from Vojvodina, so now there is a very big problem in these courts because the land books do not work. No real estate cadasar has yet to be revived, which could possibly take over the owner's registration authority and real estate data. So we're going to have to react sooner or later to that, but it's just one of the indicators that doesn't care about what level of development Vojvodina has reached, what kind of territory it is, how many nations it is in Vojvodina. Regardless of nationality, however, it is, above all, the duchess and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and expect the state to take care of their interests, and your interests are to take care of the specialities of the citizens of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8771	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8772	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, on behalf of the SVM, on behalf of the Minority Group, to make our views on this amendment. Of course, we support this amendment submitted by LDP MPs because it is completely identical to our amendment. In addition to those arguments presented by our MPs, allow me to draw conclusions adopted by SO Baka Topola at a session held on 30. Ten. In 2008. The abolition of the existing status of the municipal court in Backo Topoli, the municipal public prosecutor's office in Backo Topoli and the municipal body for violations in Backo Topoli, and the loss of their current independence in the process of rationalising a network of courts in Vojvodina, which is foreseen by a decision proposed by a network of courts on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and by draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, no legal basis, no social justification. The Assembly of the Municipality of Backo Topol insists, with the Regional Secretariat of Regulations, Administration and National Minority, the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, the Ministry of Justice and the competent working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the development of a new or amended proposal for a network of courts on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which determines the seats and areas in which they exercise jurisdiction. The new or amended proposal for a network of courts in relation to the municipality of Backo Topol and the judicial authorities established therein should go into its integrity from the prescribed, general criteria for the establishment of courts in their areas prescribed by the Ministry of Justice, and on the basis of the same established the existence or establishment of a municipal court in Backo Topoli, municipal public prosecutor's office and criminal court, all for the territory of the municipalities of Backo Topol and Mali Iđoš, since the abovementioned general criteria of the Ministry, such as territorial and geographical areas, the proximity of major traffic and the frequency of traffic accidents, multinational population, its number, as well as the specificity of these municipalities for the conduct of judicial proceedings in several languages, the number and complexity of objects in the processing, the number of catastrian municipalities, and not least, the tradition of 150 years of legal existence and non-profits in the Tobian proceedings. Since I'm from that municipality, I live in Pachir, which is in the municipality of Backo Topola, once again I ask the competent authorities, the Minister to meet us and find some sort of solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8773	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8774	I have to pick up where I left off. We are here with Article 2 concerning misdemeanor courts, but I must draw attention, above all, to the legislator and to the presidents of the parliamentary groups who make up the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now put aside that I will continue to speak, perhaps refer to business courts or other courts, but the principle used for the new organisation of justice in the Republic of Serbia is almost identical. It also concerns courts of general jurisdiction and courts of special jurisdiction. Article 2 concerns criminal courts. I just want to draw your attention that the government's proposals accept the amendments of MP Radenkovic Dejan to Article 2. Law proposal, amendment of MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 3, amendment of MP Petar Jojic to Article 3, as if they had agreed between the two, MP Filip Stojanovic's amendment to Article 3, Amendment Radenkovic Dejan to Article 3, Amendment of Ambassador Nenad Konstantinovic to Article 5, Amendment of Srdjan Milivojevic to Article 5, Amendment of Peter Petrovic and Jasmina Milosevic to Article 5, Amendment of MP Aleksandra Jankovic to Article 5, Amendment of Milan Nikolic to Article 5, Amendment of Petra Jojic to Article 6, Amendment of Nenad Konstantinovic to Article 8 and Amendment of MP Radisa Ilic to Article 9. I just want to draw attention to the fact that there is no principled difference between adopted and rejected amendments. As for the amendments that have been rejected, almost all parliamentary groups are represented. I used to use it a little while ago, of course in a positive case. This is a serious topic to be considered by a party, whether it's power or opposition. You take this very seriously. We have a situation, and I don't want to interfere with the strategies, techniques and tactics of a parliamentary group, but I'm just drawing attention to you that, as far as the majority of the National Assembly is concerned, it's pretty thin. I had just interpreted the words of one of the party's members of the government, who said there was also a reserve, which voted against the Law on Confirmation of the Association Agreement with the EU. Don't doubt the SRS. We're the opposition, we can't support this. And because we are the opposition and because these solutions stand out. Who you were thinking of, you know. It's probably the ones you accepted the amendments yesterday, like the DS Parliament Club. I'm not even getting into it. It would be very ugly, and from the point of view of the country's interest unacceptable, that some party conditioned the government and most of it to adopt their amendments, because there is no principled difference in the amendments. Mrs. Judith wrote this amendment. She listed the reasons. The same reasons was cited by Dusan Maric; the same reasons was cited by Milan Radovanovic; the same reasons was cited by Vlatko Ratkovic. A principled question arises what does it decide, what is crucial so that, on almost identical basis for amendments, some accept, some do not accept? I'm raising this to the level of principle. I'm not going into political tactics, Balint's party technique. It's a legitimate right. Under certain conditions, people have given their support to this government. They're expecting something. But if the principle of their amendment is the same as the principle on which the amendment of Milovan Radovanovic is based, then why won't this amendment pass, and it will pass? If that happens, then we will have a different situation on the ground: these municipalities to which the amendments to Milovan Radovanovic will not be in the same position as Bačka Topola, if the amendment is adopted. I'm not talking about it - adopt, reject the amendments; I'm talking about the principle. If there's a principle, if we stick to that principle, then this law won't have any bigger problems. But if we're going downhill, so we're going to accept this amendment, so that's how we promote the principle on which that amendment is based, and this one we're going to refuse, then we're going to step on that same principle. For what? Citizens of the municipalities of Aleksinac, Nis and the surrounding areas were punished for submitting the amendment to the Serbian Radical, and they were rewarded here because the amendment was submitted by Srdjan Milivojevic. His amendment isn't bad. I'm talking about principle now. If we don't stick to the principle here, then someone will impose a principle on us. Many principles are imposed on us. He is noted in this bill. This government should protect us from the bad principles that come from the West. Is it possible that we can expect that RTS's editorial policy will lead us to Javier Solana, Serge Brammertz and their outposts here? They like this show; it can go. They don't like this show; it's coming off RTS. We can't let that happen. The people sent us to protect both the state and the people living in this territory and because of ourselves here and all the citizens to arrange these relationships in the best possible way: the relationship between the individual and the individual, the relationship between the individual and the collectiveity. It has to be based on some principle, because if there's no principle then the American Embassy dictates to us. They, as they go, can also change traffic in some streets. They can say they're bothered with being one-way in this direction, keep it one-way in the other direction. You in Belgrade can go down on your eyelashes, as Javier Solana said through Kristina Galjak and through some of his exhibits in Belgrade. Of course, she's big. That's what this is about. Mrs. Malovic, I hope you were there when I read Article 3. The law on the financing of political parties. Pay attention to your last attitude. The prosecutor who gives a legal and constitutional answer to the question referred to in Article 3 shall immediately choose as the Republic Public Prosecutor. That way he'll show you he knows how to deal with motherfuckers and bastards. I guess we're all fighting bastards and fuckers no matter where they are. I guess that's our job. Aren't you uncomfortable with someone in that collectiveity calling you because of Dragan Gilas? Or for Krist's sake? Or Tomislav Nikolic? Just like we loathe over it and you loathe over it. Your political program is not Bojan Kristo. Your political program is not Dragan Gilas. It's not. What would you be responsible for and if your neighbors were looking at you all the way across the street? For what? Because of a small group of fans, "take whatever life gives you." Now or never. Start. Regardless of my additions, I think these amendments and this law must be approached in principle. The principle applicable to the adoption of Srdjan Milivojevic's amendment must be present both with the Pastor's amendment and with the Millivan amendment. Then the Assembly pleased. If access is different, then citizens from that territory, from this territory and from that territory are unequal. There is the beginning and end of the whole story of the legislative activity of the National Assembly in connection with this bill. That's all I came out for. Regardless of the concrete solutions to this amendment that Judith was talking about, this story can be repeated for each amendment and for any kind of court and organisation provided for by this law. Some interests have allowed three or four amendments to Petar Jojic and some other MPs of the Serbian Radical Party to be accepted, three or four amendments to the Democratic Party to be accepted, two amendments to me, it seems, New Serbia will be accepted, and that's all small. That's where you applied some principle, and others didn't accept that principle. If that's not there, then we don't have a well-organized judiciary on the ground. If this comes to life, you will see what objections, complaints, complaints will be and what difficulties citizens will have in achieving justice. The fact is that a court must be accessible to a citizen so that he can exercise his right to protect someone's right. We have no reliable evidence here that all citizens on an equal footing are allowed access. There may be some deviations, there's absolutely no equalization, that's impossible. But if you're already destroying an existing structure, be careful; it's easily collapsing, it's hard to make, people. There's gonna be something coming down in a minute, but it can't be done that fast. Something new to make it work... except when it comes to the construction mafia and those who stare at Belgrade, they are well built in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8775	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Balint Pastor, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8776	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Krasic, I fully agree with you, I must say this immediately in the first sentence, there is only one small problem – those principles you spoke of were not respected when drawing up this bill. It is very difficult now to fix this bill later, as a problem will arise whose amendment will be accepted. Mr. Krassic, I have to repeat what I just said. I don't know, either you weren't in the O.R. or you didn't pay attention to what I was saying, I didn't ask for our amendments to be adopted. The colleagues certainly remember, I said – we are looking for a court in Vienna, a court in Backo Topoli and a court in Senta on the territory of Vojvodina. I also said that several more courts in Serbia's territory should be preserved so that the same principles I spoke of would be respected in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. I also said that it would be no disaster for Serbia to not have 34 basic courts since 1 January 2010, but, let's say, 42. And then that rationalisation would be achieved and that reform would be achieved, and the principle of access to justice for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia would also be much greater. I see there are indications that Mr Radovan Radovanovic's amendment will be accepted. I don't know if I've seen it right, but I've seen some signs. So, in the same text, the amendment was submitted by Mr Radovanovic, Mrs Judita Popovic and Mr. Slobodan Maras in front of the LDP, as we did before the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. It seems that Mr. Radovanovic's amendment will be adopted, that the violation court in Backo Topoli will survive and I look forward to it, if that's how I understood it. I don't know if I understand correctly, we'll see in the voting day, but it's important for us from the Duke Hungarian Union that these courts we're talking about survive. We think we have very good arguments for that. I have talked about these arguments, and we will also talk about these arguments in the coming days, because we want to convince the representatives of the Ministry of Justice that these amendments are good, that these amendments should achieve that this law on the seat of courts and public prosecutors is even better, that citizens are made even more available in court and that citizens who are members of the national communities are officially guaranteed the use of their languages and that we do not have a reduction of the standards achieved. For that very reason, we have submitted the amendment. If by submitting this amendment we have contributed to the amendment of our colleague from another party, from the parliamentary group, then I think we did it well. But I also expect and hope that our amendments or other amendments will contribute to the fact that the basic courts in Vienna, Bačka Topoli and Senti survive. If we do so, then we will surely be satisfied with this bill and we will certainly vote in favour of this law, because then this law will be in line with the interests of all those citizens whose interests we want to represent in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8777	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Mr Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8778	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill provides for the existence of a court of misdemeanor in Smedereva, with a division of violations in the Great Plane and Smederjevska Palanca. With my amendment, I suggest that the court remain in Smederev and that a misdemeanor court be established in the Great Plane with the Smederevska Palanka Department. I have submitted this amendment because I believe that there are all reasonable reasons, which are in the function of faster and better law enforcement, that in the Great Plan there is a court for violations of the Smederjevska Palanca department. Now I'm going to name some of those reasons. The first reason is the population. The Municipality of Velika Plana has 50,000 inhabitants, along with Smederevski Palanka, totalling about 110,000 inhabitants. We see here, in this bill of law, that there are areas that have three times fewer inhabitants than these two municipalities combined, for which the existence of a court of offense is foreseen. I don't think that solution can be accepted as logical. The next argument is the geographical position. The Great Plan is located on Corridor 10, at the intersection of several interstate and regional road and rail roads. Over the territory of the municipality of Velika Plan, along the 50km highway of Belgrade - Nis, the railway line of Belgrade - Nis and the Carigrad road, about the same length and approximate traffic density, mostly transit traffic. Unfortunately, in that part of the highway are very frequent traffic accidents, traffic accidents and other violations requiring the intervention of the law enforcement authorities. I'll just give you two examples. Only in the last 15 days before I filed this amendment on that part of the highway did several mass car accidents occur in which more than 30 people were injured. Example 2: In July of this year, 38 traffic offences took place on this route and, more importantly, most of these traffic offences occurred outside of business hours. The procedure in these cases makes it difficult to imagine that in a large number of violations, participants are foreign citizens against whom the proceedings are conducted with the presence of interpreters, whose engagement is usually difficult in itself, and you can imagine how difficult it is if the offence occurs outside of working hours, especially at night, when otherwise these traffic and other violations occur most often. The special burden of the Violation Body in the Great Plan points to the fact that the infringement authority has so far been in charge of covering 50km of highways, and gives the first 50km of highways to be covered by three law enforcement bodies: Belgrade, Grocke and Smederev. I believe that one of the important arguments is that within ten days in the Great Plan, a modern police building will be in place to monitor traffic on most of the highway, which will in any case increase the size of the Big Plan's law enforcement bodies. The importance of the court's misdemeanor, in particular the Grand Plan's court, also predicted that eight judges, more than in Pozarevec, who is twice the city per population, were employed by six judges, or in Smederev, where seven judges were hired. The Great Plan had the same number of judges for violations as Uzice. As one of the reasons why the government has made some deviations from the established principles here is stated - the proximity of tourist resorts. I'm going to list three, actually four well-known tourist resorts, four locations in the Great Plan; there are more, but I think these four in themselves are enough to show that the Great Plan for these reasons meets this particular government criterion. The first place is the Radovan Lug, the second monastery of Pokajnica, the third place is the Koporin monastery and the fourth place is the school in Krnjevo, which most of you probably do not know is the oldest school in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The third reason for the court's existence for violations in the Great Planetess scale of business. In the last year, 2007 I read official data, which in the event of the adoption of this amendment would become one court, with a total of 16,450 cases: 8,461 infringement bodies in the Great Plan and 7,989 cases in Smederjevska Palanca. At the monthly level, it's 1,404 items or 47 items a day. Every day, day by day, 47 objects, and so on for a year. I'm saying this so we can figure out how much your law enforcement organs and the judges who work in them are burdened. Of the 16,450 new cases, which were opened in 2007, there were 7,999; of the 8,461 cases that were handled by the Violation Body in the Great Plan, 5.463 cases were resolved. In the first nine months of this year, there were 6,198 cases in the work of the Violation Body in Velika Plana, while in the work of the Violation Body in Smederjevska Palanca 6,000 cases, totaling 10,198, amounting to 1,355 items per month. If we divide this number by the number of days, we get an incomplete 34 items a day. If we count the usual working hours of seven hours of effective work for judges, the judges in the Great Plan and the Smederjevska Palanci had four cases per hour this year. It's really too much of a burden. From the total number of transfers, between January 1st and September 30th, 6,100 new cases were taken into work this year. The fourth reason I have proposed this amendment is to increase the number of cases in these infringement bodies. In the first nine months of this year, the number of cases under Article 305 has increased. The law on offences (this applies to the detention of a person), as well as the number of cases referred to in the applications of other authorities for the hearing of a party and the case for enforcement by other infringement authorities. The fifth reason is funding. Finally, on September 30th of this year, the Violent Crimes Authority in the Great Plan charged (meaning only for this year) 13.367,800 dinars for imposed sanctions in a misdemeanour procedure, which is quite enough for the self-financing of this court. The Smederjevska Palanca Violation Authority had a slightly smaller inflow of funds, but quite enough to finance the court department in the Great Plane. The sixth argument is accommodation capacity. The City Court building in Velika Plana, otherwise perhaps the most modern and best judicial building in the Republic of Serbia, has an area of 2,000 square meters, which is quite enough to have a basic court, a law enforcement body, a municipal public prosecutor's office, and can still accommodate two municipal courts. There is no need for further investment and allocation of financial resources to provide space for the work of the court. It is very important that all judges working in Violators in the Great Plan have their offices, which are fully technically equipped and therefore would not need any further investment. The last argument is an argument that everyone repeats. I think it would be easier for the citizens of the Great Plan and the judges of the Violent Crimes Authority in the event that you accept this amendment, it would be easier for them to act by law, to work in the interest of justice. For these reasons, I propose that the government and the ruling majority accept this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8779	Thank you. Mrs Judita Popovic, vice president of the National Assembly, answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8780	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, I owe one apology to Madam Minister. When I spoke earlier about our amendment, I noted that no consent and opinion was asked for by the Vojvodina authorities regarding the proposed network of courts and prosecutors. However, later, the Minister gave me an insight into one document, which is the document of the Executive Council of the APV. Namely, it is about the decision to set out a proposal for a network of APV courts, which has been made by the Executive Greater Vojvodina at a session on 12 November 2008. It's the 19th session. The decision came to the office of the Serbian Parliament on 20 November 2008. The decision was signed by the Vice-President of the Executive Council of Ms. Ana Tomanova-Makanova. I would just like to point out that this particular document confirms everything I said about the amendment in question at the assembly speaker. So, one opinion was given, one decision was made regarding the network of courts and prosecutors. It was brought by the establishment, so it was brought by the authorities. It is a coalition whose composition is identical to the coalition that is in this congregation. So it's a coalition government, with all the parties that are in the Republic Assembly -- that's the situation in the circuit assembly as well. Unfortunately, it is a decision by the province's Executive Council that does not care about the real interests of the citizens of Vojvodina and agrees with the proposal for a network of courts and prosecutors given by the centre, therefore, by the Republic government. This just confirms that there are no relevant factors in Vojvodina that know, know and want to protect the interests of the Duke. It's mostly a matter of pure interest in the exercise of power. When this authority is so important and so sweet, it can be accepted from the centre, that it can be confirmed on 12 November 2008 to confirm the network of courts proposed by the Republic government. So if we already know who is in power in the province, if we know which coalition it is, then the question is who cares about the authentic interests of Vojvodina and whether these interests of Vojvodina are truly protected. Obviously not, because if they were, it would be a different decision from the Executive Council of the Duke. Therefore, we can talk a lot here, we can talk about how glad we are and how much Vojvodina has grown to our heart, we can talk about the various interests of the entire Vojvodina and its parts, but unfortunately, the fact remains that Serbia is a highly centralised state, that the autonomous province only comes down to confirming decisions from the centre. Therefore, these amendments, which have been made, are obviously made past the decisions of the Vojvodina Executive Council – normally, the Executive Council should, above all, take care of the interests of the Vojvodina – and contrary to the proposal of the law on the network of courts and prosecutors given by the Government. What does that mean? This means that we have literally amendments to both the Dukean Assembly's decision and the government's proposals on these seats. Therefore, the government remains to make a decision on these amendments, which are meaningful, meaningful, and given that they have also been made by the Liberal-Democratic Party, and the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, and obviously the League, as well as other minorities, there is no reason for the amendments to be rejected, and the decision of the Executive Council of the Vojvodina and the Government's proposal to reject the amendment should be passed. Because if amendments with such perseverance are proposed, defended and remained with them, I guess there's a reason for that, and they have some weight.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8781	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP Mr. Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8782	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted several amendments. With this first amendment, I asked that the infringement court from the municipality of Bujanovac be classified in Article 2(1) as point 46). Taking into account the criteria under which the proposer formed the proposed network of infringement courts, it is likely the most important number of inhabitants or even the size of the municipality. I think that the Bujanovac municipality, compared to several municipalities, had the advantage that only this criterion was respected. Then, if it is the number of cases or criminal charges, I think that the municipality's misdemeanor court in Bujanovac has not lagged in relation to several municipalities and at all the courts that have been proposed to be converted from these municipal law enforcement bodies to criminal courts. On the other hand, there is a trend in the growth of these violations, in general of court cases, in this case of misapplications, because the municipalities of Bujanovac and Presevo border, through them passes Corridor 10 and have a border crossing. Like Presevo, Bujanovac towards Macedonia has a border crossing - Prohor Pcinski, and according to Kosovo is a customs unit near Konculj. In all this, the flow is far more intense than in other areas or municipalities that have entered the proposal, and theoretically more likely for violations and for the creation of these court proceedings. I claim that there is an increase in the number of cases and that from year to year we have this practice that the increasing number of unprocessed objects carried over in the following year. In addition to these two general criteria, of course, here should not abandon the criteria for the implementation of constitutional and legal standards on the use of minority language in judicial authorities. If such a proposal is adopted, as it is at the moment, I think the legal right to be conducted in Albanian language in the Vranj basic court is lost. In the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac we have in our statutes regulated, under the Constitution and law, the right to the official use of Albanian language, but allow me, the Vranje municipality does not have it, the Pcinj County does not have it. In this area, for which the basic court is now planned, then there would be no legal right to exercise the Constitution guaranteed by law, in this case, Albanian minorities to use their language, to carry out bilingualism or, most importantly, to conduct judicial proceedings in Albanian as well. The other day I looked at the report that we received as MPs, I don't know if it's from the Government, which is probably addressed to the European Union. Data are given on how many and what courts use minority languages. Despite the fact that in certain areas, courts in Vojvodina began using Hungarian language in court proceedings... Imagine this information, he says, in the District Court of Vranj, there are ten cases in the Bosilegrad Municipal Court in which the proceedings are conducted in Bulgarian as well, and in other courts within this area there has been no requirement to conduct the proceedings in minority languages. Imagine, Presevo municipality with 90% Albanians, Bujanovac with over 55%, and that there is not a single case, any citizen who has had a trial and has requested that the proceedings be conducted in Albanian! It actually needs, in itself, to be a problem. How, if guaranteed by the Constitution, does the law ensure that a whole minority (about 60,000 members of that minority) voluntarily give up that constitutional and legal right? In fact, it is something else -- there are no conditions for the process to be conducted in Albanian as well. First, because of the ethnic structure of the courts, the employees of the courts. There was a government programme, which we had in 2001, to enable Albanians to be involved in state, political and social structures, but you know we have done very little on this plan. For example, only four Albanians are employed by a specific criminal court or the municipal body for violations in Bujanovac of 20. The fourth employee lost a working relationship these days because she was employed on the basis of a work contract, which is a dactylograph. Imagine: one judge, one perpetrator and one supplier, and on behalf of a national minority who accounts for 55% of the population. Is it possible to implement a constitutional standard with such conditions that the citizens of a minority can demand that the procedure be conducted in their own language? It is not a question of not asking, but of the fact that there are no conditions, there are no conditions in the Municipal Court for violations in Bujanovac and Presevo, and in municipal courts, and we are not talking about the District Court in Vranje or the Council for Violations in Leskovec. If this proposal is adopted then I can say that this first violates the Constitution, because the Constitution guarantees the right to judicial proceedings in the language of the minority, and by crossing the seat to Vranje, this legal right is absolutely lost, theoretically. Practically, if we failed to do something concrete from 2001 to 2008, to get the Albanians involved in judicial institutions and bodies, what will it look like when the centre passes to Vranje? We already have that practice. Since 1991, the first inspection services from the municipalities have moved to the district centers. The objects must go to Vranje and only then be processed in Preshevo. Citizens can't get any idea, when it comes to inspection services, to deliver in Presevo, but must go to Vranje and then be referred to an inspector who is responsible for the territory of Bujanovac or Presevo. At that time, the same thing was done with a disaster, a geodetic service. This centralization then caused very harmful consequences in the field. In the end, two years ago, you have that centralization inside the MUP. All these centralised measures so far have led to an increase in bureaucratic procedures and in no case have contributed to the efficiency of these state bodies, so I do not believe that in this way the courts will realise the plan of rationalisation and efficiency. I think there are a number of other arguments (I'll leave them for the third point, that we might consider some other arguments) in the light of the law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, as proposed, not responding to the interests of the people on the ground. The only solution is that one part of these amendments, which have quite an argument, are adopted and that this proposal is improved and that we create one space for better implementation of the efficiency-enhancing plan, including rationalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8783	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The word has Mrs. Minister Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8784	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the previous presentation and I have to intervene in that direction and say that the representatives of the Justice Ministry were in southern Serbia a few days ago, at the Presevo Municipal Court, and have had the opportunity to personally convince themselves of the situation that exists in this court. I have to agree with most of the things Mr. Riza Halimi said. The justice ministry will take all necessary measures to ensure that the constitution guarantees the right to conduct procedures in the languages of national minorities. In this direction, I will also take a concrete step that we have taken – we have asked for a systematic position of interpreters for Albanian language, as exists in other courts in which national minorities are represented. During these days, when we discussed this package of judicial laws, you had the opportunity to see also the provision of the Law on Judges, where, in some ways, I can say, there is a positive discrimination against the population of national minorities, where it is pointed out that national minorities must be respected in terms of composition, both in relation to the holders of judicial functions and in relation to the staff in court. I listen very carefully to all your arguments about the network of courts and I will certainly give you an answer once I hear all the speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8785	Thank you. Mrs. Vervain Radeta answered her word. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Elvira Kovac. Please call a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8786	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226, although I could've walked out on the line. First of all, Madam Minister, I want to ask you - since you are already visiting southern Serbia, why don't you visit the north of Vojvodina, north of Serbia? I've decided to give you a present on this occasion and show you what's going on in the famous court in Subotica. A few weeks ago, actually four. On the 10th of this year, a subpoena came in for the defendant from the court. It is about this amendment, and of course, Mr. Riza Halimi and we belong to the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, so I would like to use this time to show you (and to present the Minister) how multilingualism is used in courts in Vojvodina. What kind of court would you like to attach to the court in Backo Topoli, to see: notice of mandatory presence, most significant notification, is written all in one language, not in Croatian, not in Hungarian, and all other notices and other texts are written in an official letter, Cyrillic, in Serbian; then it is written in the language of national minorities. The funny thing is, I can't say it's funny because it's so bizarre and pointless, it's probably going to be agreed by some European Serbian MPs, believe me, this is Hungarian written in a Cyrillic letter! It's obviously a technical error, but it's one judge who signed it. I've marked here with a yellow marker of four or five sentences, ten rows which, for example, are in Hungarian. The Hungarian language is very rich, it has 40 letters, more than Serbian, many vocals, longer, shorter ones, which are named here as longer vocals, but the whole text is written in Cyrillic. It's probably a miracle of technique, it's converted to Hungarian, let's call it Hungarian, which is written in Cyrillic. There, just to see what kind of cardinal mistakes are happening. It may be a technique, but it's the judge of that court who signed it and, believe it or not, this call was sent to the defendant in such a senseless way. So I appeal to your ministry and to our government not to deal with issues of national minorities and multilingualism, multiculturalism only in the pre-election campaign, but that we all really advocate that a grandmother who may know only her native language and everyone who may not know (I do not want to insult anyone) Cyrillic, an official letter, can read their call in Hungarian, not Hungarian, in a written Cyrillic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8787	The word has Mrs Malovic, the minister of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8788	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to answer you immediately. Justice ministry representatives today were in northern Serbia, more specifically in Sombor, where an automatic case-keeping programme was launched in the trade court, and in the previous few days they did so in the courts in Subotica, Sremska Mitrovica, which you can certainly see through press-clipping. I thank you for what you have delivered to me, and I will certainly consider it under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, if necessary, we will take measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8789	The word is "Mrs. Verica Radeta," according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, you must admit that this debate was not very pleasant, or it was not pleasant to hear what we heard from colleagues Elvira Kovac and colleagues Riza Halimi. Your ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, carries responsibility for this. Of course, and the presidents of some courts, but it's still in your ministry's jurisdiction. Members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulate, Article 10 regulates the right to use language and letter, Article 14 speaks of the protection of national minorities and even one chapter that has 63 members speaks of human and minority rights and freedoms. So, our fasting in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws governing the rights of national minorities and human rights and freedoms must ensure the state. We created the terms of the Constitution and the laws. No one in the state of Serbia has the right and there is no excuse for any violation of one's human rights and minority rights. You have to take responsibility not only by saying that they were your associates or that they would be your associates, because there are situations that they can't wait for whether someone from the Ministry will come or not. Are you going to sign an ad to hire an Albanian translator at the Vranj Municipality Court – that does not mean that Vranj cannot conduct proceedings in Albanian. In Belgrade, Kragujevac, Subotica, in every place in Serbia, may also be required by the parties in the process, if that is the language of the parties in the process. You know there are court interpreters, authorized court interpreters. If the court does not have an employee translator for Albanian, Hungarian, Slovak, any language of national minorities, a court interpreter who has the authority to do so may be engaged. So they must not question national and minority rights for any technical, allegedly, reason. counterpart Riza Halimi is absolutely right when in this amendment he asked the court for the violations to remain in Bujanovac. Of course, I don't agree with my colleague Halimi in his explanation, at least not in the full explanation that he said here. Basically, my colleague, your amendment is like all 122 amendments that have been submitted to this law and it is obvious that the problem is in this law. But when we hear these remarks, as well as the remarks that Elvira Kovac made here, which is really something that is deeply insulting to the national feelings of that lady who got... Don't be surprised, Miss Kovac, I'm saying this honestly, this is the position of the Serbian Radical Party. We have an example of our president who has put his life on the line and starved to death only to fight for basic human rights, his and all other people, to be an example not only in The Hague tribunal, but in every place, primarily in his and our country, Serbia. So, we think this seriously, and what you've brought out and what Col. Riza Halimi says is something else – as if there's someone who deliberately wants to put us in this situation and that this way we're discussing something that shouldn't be controversial. So, Madam Minister, you really need to take care of these remarks that you find out here, and you need to make sure that... Here, I give you one recommendation, one well-intentioned advice: as soon as you return to the Ministry, make one request for all courts in Serbia that all parties in the process have to ensure what the Constitution and our laws guarantee them. You can't hide from responsibility. If it's a court president's responsibility, whether it's a law enforcement body, an authority's chief officer, whether it's a court or a prosecutor's office, then you have to call for the responsibility of whoever's responsible for these violations of human rights and freedoms. Today, when we talk about this bill, we hear different arguments as to why some MP on behalf of his MP group or on his own behalf, however why, insist on his amendment and most of the arguments of all MPs are almost identical. In most cases, it is the people who are born, or who live in those places where these laws are now abolished by either the courts for offences, since the courts for violations, whether these regular courts, prosecutors, etc. All discussions are about the same direction. But what we heard earlier is something that so far no one has used as an argument and we have to take one position in this House. I don't think that's disputed, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you, on behalf of the Government here, must confirm that what we heard today as an argument will never happen in any court again. There is a way for these problems to be overcome and we must not allow a judge or a judge in a court of law to misappropriate things like this, or that someone in your government is deliberately setting these things up for us, so that now someone can hear what we're discussing, or what our motives are, why we're asking for the court to remain in Bujanovac or elsewhere. The point is quite different, the essence is what all the other MPs were talking about, which is definitely going to be talked about a hundred more times because there are so many amendments left, but obviously, Madam Minister, you really have no other solution than to withdraw this law while it's still time. Obviously, there are no MPs here who will vote for this law, each for some reason, each for some court, a suspended court, 104 courts, you are abolishing. I know your explanation, and I know that you will say that there are judging days, not to say the days of judgment, that there are departments, etc. It's not the same and, of course, I'll talk about it when I talk about the amendment I've submitted. When we talk about these specificities spoken of by colleagues about this amendment, I will remind you of how the presidents of the courts are abused, how judges are abused, we have talked to you here for days. We also have the latest case in the municipality of Zemun, where the president of Belgrade's District Court does not allow a decision to be taken on appeal by the council of Zemun Steve Dragisic municipality. The fifth day is up, and their deadline is 48 hours. Three times they sought completely pointless supplements, and on these pointless additions they received the proper documentation they requested, although there was no need to ask. Imagine what self-will it is. That is why I fully believe when counterpart Riza Halimi says someone does not provide an Albanian-language trial in Bujanovac or Vranj. If it can happen in the Belgrade District Court that someone informs the Zemun municipality that the public defender's office is not in charge of representing the municipality, can anyone who has ever passed the law school imagine it? What's the public defendership for instead of representing the municipality? But in order to gain time, to see what Gilas is going to say, in order to finally agree, they came up with – the Zemun municipality cannot represent the public defendership, but should be done by the president of the municipality. And the president of the municipality writes -- here, and I agree with what you got from the D.A.'s office. That's not enough either. Then it takes another supplement and every two hours to deliver that supplement, i.e. to meet this alleged condition that is not actually a condition because it does not exist in the law. And if there is no law, the fact that there is in the head of some president of the court must really not be binding on anyone. So these are really serious objections, serious examples, and we're asking the Ministry to take this seriously. Whether you adopt this amendment or not, like the other amendments, and obviously you won't, that's another question. You obviously have your own way when it comes to what you call a network of courts, but there must be no reason what we have heard now, never again, in any court in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8791	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has Mrs. Malovic, the minister of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8792	I'm sorry I didn't get back to you in time. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice that prepared this package of judicial laws, I accept this amendment. I believe that the solution offered by this amendment can only contribute to an even better network, in fact, the organisation of judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8793	Thank you. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the law. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. An MP, Sheriff Hamzagic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Sheriff Hamzagic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8794	The Honorable Chairman, respected Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of honourable MPs, the proposal for a law on seats and areas implies that basic court, criminal court and public prosecutor's office be established in Novi Pazar, and the judicial unit in Tutin and the division of the criminal court in Tutin. My amendment requires that a basic court be established in Tutin, a misdemeanor court and, normally, a basic public prosecutor's office. The arguments are multiple, can be separated into professional and general. It would be professional for two courts and a public prosecutor's office to have enough cases, and beyond the norm. Every judge, in both courts, has a sufficient number of cases, as well as a public prosecutor's office. The basic court has a sufficient number of judges, as required by the norms – six judges. Both courts are both professionally and technically trained and equipped. As a general argument, they can first state that the Tutin municipality per area belongs to the five largest municipalities in Serbia, with 742 square kilometres, a highly-determined territory, with very poor road infrastructure. Local roads are mostly macadamic types. Up to 99 villages and villages usually public traffic works once a day and up to some a week. However, due to high altitudes, which range from 900 to 1,200 meters, usually with very sharp and long winters, with very many snowfalls, larger rural areas, the local communities are overrun for several days, so that certain rural areas are separated from the world for several days. The following arguments would be that the Tutina municipality is among the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, with very low national income and very high unemployment. At the unemployment rate, Tutin is among the first five municipalities in Serbia; the rate is as high as 47.4. The Tutina municipality is a multinational municipality. The Bosniaks and Serbs, together with each other, live peacefully in our municipality. However, what is expressed? Migration movements are expressed. In 1991, Tutin had 36,000 inhabitants, and in 2002, 31,000 people moved – Serbs to larger and rich environments in Serbia, and Bosniaks, Muslims to Bosnia and towards the rich European Union. The Tutina municipality is a border municipality and borders Montenegro, with three municipalities: Rozaje, Berana and Bijelo Polje. That border is 60 kilometers long. The neighbouring municipalities in Kosovo are Zubin Potok, East and Pec. This administrative line is 40 kilometers long. You know, like any other border, the border zone, and this one towards Montenegro is subject to illegal crossover of citizens, foreign citizens, illegal trade in goods and other offences that can be committed under crime and crime or something else. The administrative line is also subject to the crossing of citizens, foreign or our citizens, in places which are not allowed to do so. Let me just remind you that there is a government regulation that sanctions these proceedings by a brief procedure. All of this requires both a basic and a criminal court and a public prosecutor's office. I hope that this amendment will be accepted, because if it is not accepted, if these courts are not in Tutina, the situation in Tutin will deteriorate multiple times. Tutin is a very poor municipality and part of the people who work, I think, and the people in these courts will stay on the street. On the other hand, migration movements will be launched safely and the cave's high seas will further relax. On the other hand, we know that the law on regional development is in preparation, and the Agency for Equal Regional Development is formed. Is this the opposite of what is being prepared, of what we should do, that we develop small and poor environments and at least partially bring them closer to the development of larger environments? On the other hand, as I said, both Bosniaks and Serbs live peacefully there. When there were some war facts in the environment, in other republics, in other countries, it lived peacefully there, but the Bosniak Corps is politically divided. That division has entered all the spheres of our people's social life, which makes it a little difficult for us to present real life problems to our government, our country. I think this all fits one of our stories. In order for the Minister and, hopefully, the Ministry, like you honourable MPs, to accept this amendment, I will just say that the MP club will vote in favour of a set of judicial laws because we think they are advanced, that they are pro-European, that they will bring improvement to our judiciary, but that we will also support and vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8795	Thank you. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8796	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP advocates the root and fundamental changes of the judiciary in Serbia, but we believe that politics is responsible for the chaos in the judiciary much more than the judiciary itself. But what is the problem of this reform, which is foreseen by the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors? The problem is that one branch cannot be reformed without reforming the other two branches, I'm referring to the executive rule. Also, this territorial reform of the judiciary does not correspond to citizens of Serbia or local self-government. The evidence for this claim is also a large number of amendments submitted by the ruling coalition MPs on the draft of this law. It is important to understand these MPs from the ruling coalition and MPs from opposition parties, because it is extremely difficult to explain to citizens in their municipalities, where they come from, why they will lose one institution. It is extremely difficult to explain to citizens, specifically in the Tutin municipality, why none of the government representatives asked them, or the local self-government unit, what they think of the bill. In addition to what Mr Hamzagic spoke about, I will provide some figures: there are 699 kilometers of roads in the territory of the Tutin municipality, of which modern August i.e. asphalt - 93 kilometers. Of these 699 kilometers, 565 kilometers are local roads, and only 17 kilometers are paved. Also, on the territory of the Tutin municipality only 55% of households are supplied with water from the water network, while only 29% of households are covered by the fecal sewerage network. According to official data from Telekom Srbija, Day 31. 12. In 2006, there were only 2,200 telephone connections on the territory of the Tutin municipality, although the Tutin municipality has 37,000 inhabitants. In an explanation written by the Government that does not accept this amendment, among other things, it says that "determined deviations from parameters are made due to geographical distance, proximity to the border, population density and proximity to tourist sites". I will just point out that the municipality of Tutin is a border municipality, that the border crossing with the Republic of Montenegro is about five or six kilometers from the center of Tutin, that some villages, or settlements on the territory of the Tutin municipality (which otherwise has 99) are 30 kilometers away from the center of Tutin, such as Borostica, Baćica, Starčevića, etc. I will also say another fact, which I think very few citizens of the Republic of Serbia know – that on the territory of the Tutin municipality is one of the biggest peaks; it is the top of 2,156 meters on the Wet Mountain. The Liberal Democratic Party will support any initiative that interests citizens of Tutin and Sandzak in general, so we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8797	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Ms. Verica Radeta, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good to say, first of all, because of the public, a few words that actually represent invoices when it comes to the law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. This law has 19 members. These 19 members have been tabled 122 amendments; 13 amendments have been accepted and 109 have not been accepted. Indeed, had there been seriousness with the government or the government itself, this law would have been withdrawn from the procedure. Amendment applicants are representatives of all political parties. Amendments of representatives of all political parties have been adopted; no amendments of all political parties have been adopted. This says that no one in this room, or any political party, is satisfied with the way the government of the Republic of Serbia thinks it arranges, as they say, a network of courts. An amendment that I have submitted to Article 2 – and I have submitted amendments to Article 2. 7th and 9th and all three refer to the municipality of Tutin, i.e. bigger for the offences, the municipal court and the prosecution in Tutin – is identical with the amendment of his colleagues, Hamzagic. He lives there and he knows the situation well, but all of us who know geography, we know Serbia, and we weren't there to think differently. I don't know if Mrs Malovic was ever in Tutin and if she has any idea, or anyone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what would the Tutin municipality mean to abolish the court for violations, or the future court, now the authorities for violations, the municipal court (the basic court, under the new law, yet unadopted) and the public prosecutor's office? A colleague of Hamzagic brought out a few data here but I have even more information concerning, above all, the work of the municipality court in Tutin, and in general. Five judges were employed in Tutin. Of those five judges, the two are investigative judges. Obviously, there is a need for two investigative judges in Tutin, and I will explain later why this is particularly important. There is one systematized place for a municipal judge, but since Oliver Dulic did not put on the agenda and discharge in the judiciary at all, there was no opportunity to place another judge in Tutin. In all, about 30 court administration workers were employed in the Tutin Municipal Court; ten people were held by the judge for violations; ten people were charged with public prosecutor. So, without these judicial functions, 50 people were employed. This network of courts will, first of all, put those fifty people out of work. Some judges, if they are not spatrated under that law we talked about two days ago, will either get a job or a tutin department, if so, or will be tried in Tutin or will go to Novi Pazar, but these 50 people, mostly with medium professional training, will be out of a job. They won't have anywhere to work anymore. The point is that in such small municipalities, in these small towns, most employees are just employed by local self-government, the MUP, courts, prosecutors. Since government firms do nothing in big cities, let alone in these small communities, there is a big problem because of what you intend to do, not only in this municipality but in other municipalities. He also told his colleague that there are 99 villages in the Tutin municipality. Sam Tutin, and that's very important, is located at 741 feet above sea level. I'm saying this because I don't know, Mrs. Malovic, if you've ever traveled from Novi Pazar to Tutin in winter, so you can see how long it takes; the distance is 35 kilometers, and there's no way you'll get past it with your minister's car in less than an hour and 15 minutes. Imagine the situation: there's been an accident in Tutin, an investigative judge has to come from Novi Pazar to Tutin; an hour and 15 minutes to an hour and a half travel, half an hour to make an insight, an hour and a half to return. Spend more than three hours. He just came to Pazar, told him that someone in Tutin dropped a brick on his head and had to return to the field again. He loses three hours again, spends his vehicle, spends his fuel, spends his time. It's really amazing where you saw savings and rationalization when you proposed this law. First of all, you did not take care of what you say about all the bells – how you advocate (not you personally, but the party you belong to and this ruling group) for balanced regional development. I guess even regional development means that the state is trying so hard to develop that these six judges are systematicized, and five filled places are small, that the school is small, that production plants should be opened, that people are coming back, not leaving. A colleague of Hamzagic just spoke about demographic data when it comes to the Tutin municipality. I've got the exact information. I think you're a colleague, or I haven't heard you very well. According to the latest 2002 census, there were 36,166 inhabitants in Tutin, 0.74% Serbs. Five Serbs were employed in court, out of a total of 30 employees. Serbs are moving out of Tutina, more than Muslims, you know that, because they have fewer opportunities to work. Instead of creating conditions, of course not just for Serbs, everywhere where the multinational environment... We as the majority people in this country have to make sure that where multinational environments are special attention to these environments, these people. It's nice that a colleague said that there are Serbs and Muslims living in absolute harmony, which is true, but then the question is who cares that laws like this make problems there, artificial ones that don't actually exist, so that somewhere in the white world you can hear what we're discussing here in Serbia and this Parliament. I don't know if you've taken care of the two farthest villages, my colleague can correct me, Boroštica and Bračak, which are 41 kilometers away from Tutin. In winter, there's no way anyone can come from these villages to Tutin, let alone go from there to Novi Pazar. He needs to travel two days to get to Novi Pazar to attend a lawsuit, and then he's delayed for three months, then five months. How many times does it take? How much does that cost him? How much does that have to pay? How long does it take him to get to court for violations? He commits a crime, drives five kilometers faster than he is allowed; the punishment he should pay for that offence is much less than he needs him to go from his village to Novi Pazar and go back. There is a border zone with Montenegro, there are often violations at that border crossing, at Meh's cross (we read this every day in newspapers), as well as at all border crossings. Instead of approaching a misdemeanor court there, we say - we don't need Tuco's misdemeanor court. We later say we don't need a basic court, we don't need a prosecutor's office. We do not need a court that received a total of 9.821 cases from 1 January 2005 to 1 December 2007. He solved 7,302 items; there were 2,519 unsolved items left. In the meantime, only in this year, in nine months, 3,346 cases. In total, you now have 5,865 cases in the municipality court in Tutin and 2,785 solved. It is truly incomprehensible where you found the reasons for the abolition - from the court for the violations, through the basic court, to the prosecution in the municipality of Tutin. This is a great sin against the people who live there. Believe that what these people see there as the seat of the municipality and what actually makes Tutin a city is a court of offense, court, prosecution, MUP, school, hospital, post office. You have estimated that this is a small number of cases and you see some economic calculation in order to abolish this court, as well as 104 other courts throughout Serbia. That way, in fact, you close the fate of those people who live there. They can't take it anymore. It's simple, just knowing (I don't know if you've been there, I've often gone there and gone) that someone's wearing a tutina court... They think—almost, what we do here, we become the local community of the New Market. The fact that they're 35 kilometers away, plus 40 miles from that farthest village, plus the way they're supposed to go... Here, he knows a colleague who goes the way he goes. Imagine the time when 35 kilometers travels in an hour and 15 minutes by your minister's car, let alone some others, and winter... I went through the winter, went from Pazar to Tutin, went back to that new road to the only misery, because the one that was usual for communication was not possible. So a lot of things have to be taken care of. Not a network of courts, a network of schools, a network of homes of health, hospitals, etc. that it's done in statistics and can't be done in the office. It's gotta be done in accordance with the real state of the field, with the things of life on the ground. You now want to save on the judges in Tutin, and you don't care how much Bojan Kristo's salary has taken at Belgrade Airport. He probably stole so much that all these 104 courts you were planning to lift could be financed from those funds. So, Madam Minister, you have to behave a little bit more lifely, both you and the rest of the government. You can't just show up on TV, say... Again, don't understand anything personal, I refer first of all to the Government as a competent and responsible authority in this country, and you are, of course, a representative of the Government here. So you have to take care of what life is in Serbia, about the interests of Serbian citizens. Besides, send someone to Tutin, ask the squad, from the smallest kid to the oldest old man, if there's any reason and if anyone's gonna say that I'm going to shut down the law enforcement authorities, away from the courts and the prosecution in Tutin. Believe me, no one will. I suggest you accept this amendment, leave at least one problem less to yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8799	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Aleksandra Janković, and the People's Messenger is Munir Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8800	I'm going out on behalf of the NS parliamentary group to support Mrs. Verice Radeta's amendment. I think that definitely this amendment has very legitimate reasons and that people sitting on the other side might be able to consider that the amendments of the opposition themselves are not unjustified because they come from the other side. If, then, you really consider all this that Mrs. Radeta has been saying so far, you will understand that it is necessary to adopt this amendment. However, its entire exposure inspired me to think a little bit about this Bill on Seats and Areas of the Courts and Public Prosecutors, because if there is an idea of decentralisation of the authorities, or the achievement of Serbia's even regional development, it is necessary to consider increasing the number of courts and seats of those courts, so before the need for trials is obvious and increased. Here's what happens now in Smedereva. The court is not big enough to receive 88 indictees: 23 professors, 33 students and 32, it's called - the mediator in setting up exams in "the index affair". When lawyers are added to that, it turns out that the small one is not only the District Court, but is a narrow and large hall of the Smedereva City Assembly. Without intending to violate the presumption of innocence, however, it remains interesting that the accused professors were not only allowed to defend themselves from freedom, but also to participate as lecturers at the "Copanical School of Natural Rights" seminar. What is enabled (I say right, because it has not been proven guilty) Professor Emilia Stankovic and Oliver Antić, as well as Joca Amsterdam, who defends himself from freedom, is not allowed Miladin Kovacevic, who has been detained for another month due to possible escape and influence on witnesses. Where will he, a martyr, flee when he comes from America to his home country that does not extradite his citizens and protects them, with a well-known principle that one person cannot be tried simultaneously in two processes, in this case on two continents? Miladin Kovacevic, I guess, can only bioenergy affect witnesses who are in America, and there is no way that teachers in the "Afera Index" can affect identified, and especially unidentified users of fast-track exams. Miladin Kovacevic's parents can visit eventually once in ten days, behind the glass, with that earpiece on which the guard is on the other end, so that the lady-to-be, now the secretary of state, ice Lady Hilary, may not be irritated. After the shock with the "oral cabinet" she seems to be most disturbed by Miladin Kovacevic and Kosovo in Serbia. We, as citizens of Serbia, should not only not be bothered, but we do not have the right to comment on the absence of information about what is happening now in Kosovo and Metohija. The alleged prime minister of the alleged state of Kosovo, actually a terrorist from Interpol's warrant, Thaci, explains to his people that they are not excited about the famous six points because the document of President Ahtisaari will be applied in Kosovo. If Thaci is lying, which is to be expected from the killer and the terrorist, then it is really a question of what happens to the deployment of the Eulex mission, which is a direct consequence of Ahtisaari's plan. Since in the name of Serbia, but secretly from both the people and from us who represent this people, negotiations are conducted by the former professor of psychology and his favorite students, we have no idea what kind of points this is, nor what NATO now has to do with the reshaping of UNMIK and the Eulex mission, which is allegedly neutral, however, a civilian mission. The military minister, whose light CV stands to work on raising the ramp in front of JUL's seat, outstanding psychological testing for BIA, as well as failure at Mr Kundak's security affairs, but also 24 salaries collected in the name of severance, and before arriving at the SDPR site, now explains the steps of his mastermayand Tadic. An explanation of the alleged Tadic's initiative to revise the Kumanovo Agreement and the initiative that he again launched without any explanation to the representatives of the people is just as valid as the previously demonstrated inability to determine the exact number of bullets in the jar. Here's what Sutanovic says -- reviewing does not mean returning the army to Kosovo, but there is no reason why our military presence and flying aircraft depend on international forces. No wonder a man has to be at least a psychologist to get Sutanović to understand. The rest are left with the famous chorus of his father-in-law, "Smile, laugh." To all this, while we were dealing with the younger Krišt, we missed the fact that the current state of political life in Serbia is a phenomenon called system corruption in theory, which means that there is no business, no profession, no work without politics. It's all politics, on the one hand, and on the other hand, without politics, it's all nothing. The public accepts it peacefully. No wonder instead of having paid affairs in public enterprises, researchers are discovered by journalists by us, MPs of the opposition. The media mostly publish triumphs and working victories of the current government, of course, where there is no "r" from working victories, and all in the same way that they once celebrated the famous Titos' work actions. In order for a real change to take place, the issue of integrity cannot be asked only by the MPs, but also by the media, who can't just write go to the authorities, but also by investigating how to go to the power that has encumbered corruption. Finally, this "Frankenstein government" obviously has a problem with the adoption of the 2009 budget, as the draft budget, which was sent to the prime minister and all ministers by Ms. Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, despite yesterday's review at a joint session of all the government committees, was not adopted. And how could each of these great experts, ministers, not know how to get enough for a transge-frange variant? If the SFRY was valid - nothing can surprise us, apart from the rain, now in the Serbian government goes a Romaniac - nothing can surprise us except the global economic crisis. Then there is nothing left to accept an ingenious (and whose) gambling recipe is Mladjan Dinkic, who suggested that an unbiased computer program be created that will include how much money the state has, and then the computer itself will divide it. If the programme is done by Mladjan experts, and we know, as Mr Krasic said, that Mladjan Dinkic is a Serbian brand for fraud, here is bingo, good news for power, and for changing the bad for the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8801	The word is from Ambassador Munir Traturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8802	Madam Chairman, respected Mrs Malovic, fellow MPs, just a few words, not to repeat myself, on the occasion of Mr Hamzagic's amendment and Mrs Verica Rade, specifically related to Tutin and, in essence, not only to Tutin as a small municipality, but to municipalities in Serbia located in border areas and poor. We in Serbia have about 24 municipalities declared the poorest municipalities, which in the south, which in the east, is in the southwestern part of Serbia. The fact that various violations occur is not only because of the fact that the violations have occurred in Tutin 5,000 unsolved, but that I don't talk about Sjenica or Novi Pazar and other border municipalities, because they are in some way less educated, because the network of state institutions does not exist in these municipalities so that they can give one educational support to the population in time to be able to identify something they can prevent, to react to state institutions, to recognise the specificity of certain regions or municipalities. For this reason, there is no local transport in Sjenica right now. Car transport in Sjenica was shut down the moment the local, or social carrier went into bankruptcy. You know, in the former Yugoslavia, Sjenica was the largest city in the world. If one village in Tutina is the farthest from the center of 43 km, there are even more distant ones in Sjenica. That's not the biggest problem. The problem is that both in Tutina and in Sjenica, only 2% of the total travel network are paved roads. So the worst road network in Serbia is in Tutina and Sjenica, across Serbia. If you have such a bad travel network, if you do not have local transportation under the authority of local self-government, how can we expect the local population in municipalities that are the poorest (or among the poorest) in Serbia to respect everything that can be prosecuted in court? I'm sorry, but it happens that those who are poor are even poorer and we punish them by not being able to exercise their right or protect themselves because they have no money. For this reason, because of the whole situation in Serbia, because of the intention of all being equal, that is to give all citizens in Serbia a chance to exercise their rights, because of the specificity of certain municipalities throughout Serbia, I ask you to respect these specificities and these reasons when making a decision on the adoption of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8803	There's a People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1). The time for the SRS parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. There's a word from MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8804	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I am reporting not only to support Mrs Radete's amendment, but I can also say that I support practically all the amendments we've heard so far. So I answered because this whole court map problem in Serbia has three aspects. Here, however, there has been a lot of talk about that one legal aspect, but this story has both its economic and its own political aspect. I will mostly deal with these other two, because my colleagues in the debate in principle talked a lot about the legal aspect. As for the economic aspect of abolishing some hundred courts in Serbia, I do not see any economic logic and any savings, because, you know, the cost of the trial is directly proportional to the number of cases, not the number of judges or employees. The assumption is, of course, that there will be as many employees, from the judges to the auxiliary staff, as many cases as there are. The subject has as many as it has, and there will be no more or less after the adoption of this law. It is true that you may save on the salaries of some couriers, scribes, etc. By small courts, but you'll spend that same money on travel expenses, journals and everything else you have to pay for those who go from one place to another. I have to admit, I don't see any major economic logic in the abolition of courts. In fact, the most serious arguments against such a complete concept of abolishing courts are in the political sphere. Once upon a time, wars were waged by the method of the burned land – the conqueror comes, wins the domestic army, then burns the land and cleanses the people. You know what the effect of abolishing courts in smaller cities is? The effect is to eliminate these cities. Cancel the city court, cancel high school, cancel the hospital, and you have guaranteed an empty space in ten years. The older citizens will stay in that small place, and the younger ones will be looking for their chance somewhere else. You have such examples, unfortunately, already in Serbia, you have in the north of Raska, you have in eastern Serbia a clear area. Of course, you can ask -- for whom cleaned, but that's another thing. Therefore, I am deeply convinced that the very wrong concept is that of 138 (don't take my word) courts remain 34 or 38, it doesn't matter. It's a completely conceptually missed story, very dangerous and very harmful to the state. I'll remind you, ma'am, that about a month ago, you had an argument with judicial experts at the Media Center. I think you remember well and realize that MPs in this House are much more gentle under this law than your colleagues were at the Media Center. I think you're quite lightly (not you personally, but the government) overcame those arguments that you heard at the Media Center at the time. I know the arguments you've heard. A lot of these arguments were said here for this pay phone. We can be exhausted now, now we're at the 13th Amendment, and if I'm wrong, there are 124 of them; one by one an MP can come out and say that the court is back here, there, so in turn, we'll lose another ten days at that. I think it's much wiser, but now I've come out to give you a chance to sleep over and then tell us tomorrow, to withdraw this law and make it a concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8805	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sasa Dujovic and Djordje Milicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8806	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the LDP to add, in Article 2 1 after point 31), a new point 32) which reads: "The Pryboj Criminal Court, for the territory of the Municipality of Priboj" and to make the present point 32 become point 33). The Liberal Democratic Party believes judicial reform is part of comprehensive reforms in society. If we view it that way, as part of these reforms, we cannot talk about serious local self-government if from year to year local self-government is taken away from the attributes that make this local self-government a municipality, or city. In this way, the local self-government, or municipality, becomes an ordinary local community that will wait for a pre-election campaign to get some pre-election crumbs from the government and thus satisfy the life of a modern - day man. Thus, in the last few years, the Municipality of Priboj has lost all attributes that make one municipality a municipality. For the past few years, we have lost customs, income management, financial police, interior secretariats in the area of the Municipality of Prboj; we are now losing the criminal, basic, or municipal court, and reforms are expected in the field of health, education. Does that mean we're gonna lose both hospital and high school now? What remains of one such local self-government that, after all the reforms that happen in society, gets nothing? The local self-government is becoming an ordinary shell in which political parties will fight only for the votes of their citizens. In this way, the municipality, in this case the municipality of Priboj, the poorer and, worst of all, is given a message to the citizens of the Municipality of Priboj that the future in the municipality of Priboj is dreary and that they need their brighter future to look in another city. Therefore, it should not be surprising to the citizens of the Municipality of Priboj, nor to the reaction of all political parties on the territory of the municipality of Prboj. Therefore, it should not be surprising that the initiative launched at the Pryboy Municipality Assembly, which was unanimously supported by all parties, should remain in the Pryboy municipality both a criminal and a fundamental court. I am going back to the explanation that the government rejected this amendment of mine and I quote again: "Definite deviations from these parameters have been made because of the geographical distance, the proximity of the border, the density of the population and the proximity of the tourist resorts". This is exactly what an explanation needs to be used by the government to accept this amendment of mine. Why? Because the Pribo municipality is a border post, it borders with BiH and Montenegro. But unlike other border municipalities on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Pryboj municipality is specific in that up to two-thirds of the municipality of Pryboj, up to two-thirds of the village on the territory of the Municipality of Pryboj, or up to 10,000 citizens on the territory of the Municipality of Pryboj, can only be reached through BiH, i.e. citizens from the territory of these parts of the municipality of Pryboj reach the city center, i.e. it is necessary to cross the border four times! Also, Mrs Malovic, I don't know if you're familiar with the fact that there is an enclave on the territory of the Municipality of Priboj, it's the village of Sastaci, which is part of BiH's territory within the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think these are all arguments that the criminal court and the basic court exist in the area of the Pryboy municipality. Also, if we are talking about a tourist resort, Priboj itself represents a tourist resort, because in Priboj there is a Pribojska Banja; on the territory of the Municipality of Priboj, i.e. in the territory of Pribojska Banje is one of the oldest monasteries - the monastery of Sveti Nikola, then the Mažici monastery; on the territory of the municipality of Priboj is one of the oldest mosques - Hasanbeg's mosques (this year 350 years since its construction was celebrated). These are all arguments to keep this territory in breach and the basic court, and based on those arguments, the criteria used by the Ministry to refuse, among other things, and this amendment of mine. When we are making reform, reforming the judiciary, or any reform within society, and rationalising certain services, it is necessary that we make complementary municipalities, or municipalities that will complement each other's functions, rather than create smaller centres and thus do some, for God's sake, regionalisation. The Liberal Democratic Party considers multi-ethnicity and multi-confessionality to be an advantage, however, with such reforms of society it seems to be one flaw that the citizens, in particular the Priboj municipality, are being punished. Another information, specifically about this court in the area of the Municipality of Pryboj – the formation of a misdemeanor court in Priboj is economically justified, given that the municipal body for violations in 2007 in the territory of the municipality of Pryboj has already made revenue of about eight million dinars, and that by half of 2008 it has already transferred these eight million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8807	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was known at the outset that this bill would cause a reaction that would not go to criticise the bill in general, but the MPs would focus on the areas from which they come, on the territories from which they come and see that the state, the government, abolishing the fundamental postulate of the judiciary. The amendment of MP Kenan Hajdarevic certainly needs to be accepted, as it refers to the mountain-mountan area, rarely populated in rural areas, especially as these municipalities are the border municipality towards Montenegro or BiH. There is, therefore, a short need for court cases, including courts for violations, to be represented, a team before, as Ms. Verica Radeta said a few moments ago, individual settlements from the central areas, where there are now judges for violations, courts, prosecutors, 40, 50 or 60 kilometers away; these are macadam roads, sometimes impossible to arrive on time, especially when winter snow curtains all over the area have been cut off a few days from the city center. A great sin would be lifted in these areas and criminal and basic courts and basic prosecutions and would prevent people from exorcising justice before the court, any procedure to be done. On the other hand, you can see that in certain areas, two basic courts have been made in Belgrade in particular: one large fundamental court covering the territory of all five so far-called municipal courts and one smaller court covering suburban municipalities. It's a little different here after all. However, when it comes to these areas, especially Priboj and the environment, Prepolje and the environment, Nova Varosh and the environment, it is a large territory, rarely populated anyway, and if we now abolish their ability to exercise our rights, I think we are coming into a situation where we can dissipate people. I think the bill itself is absolutely wrong and I agree with my colleague Radet, who told Mrs Malovic that it would be best to now, at this moment, withdraw the law, to look at a little bit of damage and how much harm it will be, possibly, from this law. We leave the entire territory without courts, no criminal courts, no prosecution, we leave people all day long to separate and the elementary thing in court ends. I think Mr. Hajdarevic's amendment should be accepted. On the other hand, a mastodon is being played, a court is being held, the first basic court in Belgrade, which will have several hundred judges, which are being misdemeanors, which is being litigating, which is being blamed. There's a prosecutor's office that's going to have a few hundred deputies, a hundred associates, a hundred interns, because both the prosecution and the court are studying a spring for the functions they're going to take the next day. We're getting into a situation where we have an admiral who won't even know a quarter of the judges whose work will be graded. There is a great possibility of volunteering, a great opportunity to apply the will of the one you choose to be President of the Court, or the Attorney General, one or the other. We're getting into a situation where there's gonna be a slow judiciary anyway, a bunch of cases that are now being dragged through the courts... We know that there are litigation cases that last for a few years, that there are 15 or 20 years of litigation and they haven't finished, that the entire generations of defendants and prosecutors are changing without the case being completed. This won't speed up justice, this won't speed up the verdicts, this won't speed up the work of the judicial authorities. This will only slow down a lot and create a lot of cavities where there will be room for volunteering, for free judgment. I believe that the amendment of MP Kenan Hajdarevic should be adopted and that border areas should be taken into account, rarely populated areas, because Serbian citizens living there, who are most concerned with their civic obligations. One court for violations does not mean much to even this bill, but one court more in the area, for the people of the area it means a lot. That's why I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8809	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Before I move on to the next amendment, I would like to inform the MPs that the Secretary of the National Assembly has informed the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups that there has been a change in the Captain's work today's afternoon session, and after RTS's information that they have assumed the obligation to transfer the basketball game, so that today we will complete our work at 19 hours and at 19 hours, the delayed transfer of this part of the session that is currently under way will begin. National MP Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the amendment of the NS parliamentary group, on whose behalf I submitted this amendment, clearly states that the NS MPs are not satisfied with the way in which the law on seats and areas of courts has been proposed. The amendment is the following: to delete Article 3 completely. We cannot accept that this way of organising a judicial network (basic, higher courts) is fine. Today, there were more words about why it is not good for courts in Serbia to be arranged in this way. First of all, I think there was a lack of public debate, which was extremely important when the bill came to the assembly procedure. The final version of this law is 28. 10th of this year published on the Justice Ministry website, one day before the public debate ended, and could not respond adequately. First of all, the judicial public in Serbia, those people who will apply the law, who will conduct judicial proceedings, are not satisfied. On several occasions, the Association of Judges of Serbia appealed to the applicants of this law, who practically put this law in the assembly procedure, that it should have... Once again, the principled objection is the lack of public and inadequate public debate. What in the life of Serbian citizens exactly means we will see in the application of this law, but it is obvious that there will be a lot of interference between both Serbian citizens and judicial officials, of course those who represent citizens before courts. There's gonna be a lot of trouble. We saw it today, it was mentioned a distance from some courts hundreds of miles away. It was mostly about those areas of Serbia where the conditions were extremely difficult, so we mentioned Novi Pazar and Tutin, but nothing is better when it comes to, say, the distance of the Municipal Court, so far in Raska and Kralje, it is 80 km, because practically in Raška it will be only judicial units. I would really ask the minister of justice in a direct communication that one re-ission, in the first degree, will be a case that will be tried (for example, a man from Kopalnik or Golia) in a higher court in the King, where the value of the dispute is more than 800,000 dinars... So, we're going to have a situation where people in the first degree, when it's changed, and I don't think it's yet, Madam Minister, now I'm talking about the current situation, which they're going to have to go 80 kilometers to protect someone's right to be in a position to come all this way, to hire lawyers, to spend their time. I'm afraid, Madam Minister, that when you put a bill like this into practice, you didn't think that there was a danger that citizens, as I warn you, would take matters into their own hands. I fear, when this law is applied, there will be an increase in crimes in Serbia, which is what is most dangerous when it comes to citizens' security. Because if someone to protect their rights has to travel 100 and more kilometers, so when they go once, twice, for the third time, and when they see that their judgment is far away, they're far from justice, they're extremely expensive, people are going to, again, I'm afraid, take things into their own hands, and we're going to have something that we wanted to do better in Serbia to have a rise in criminal acts. It is extremely dangerous and I appeal to you to find a good solution to really avoid these things and to ensure that the safety and safety of citizens are adequate. Of course, no one can be happy about the fact that in some city where the court exists for many years, and we mentioned Gornji Milanovac, Raska, Mionica, Bruce, Vranjska Banja... We've invested in some court buildings for years. Repeat that, in principle, I said in this debate, the Municipality Court in Vrnjačka Banja is an extremely beautiful building located in a practical place which is practically a postcard of Vrnjačka Banja. We'll make that municipal court a judicial unit. The question arises as to what these judicial units will serve. So some delegated judges will come from another city to judge another city. One explanation for the congregation speaker of those who have proposed this law is to prevent the influence of local judges, that they are under great influence in small communities. Madam Minister, I'm absolutely certain that first holders of judicial functions should be such people who have to be untouchable, that they can't judge by their grandmother, or by their uncles, but by the law. I'm sure you won't be able to prevent that possibility, if anyone has bad intentions, so that the party doesn't go to another city without looking at these judges' connections. I'm sure that in these other environments, people who are similar to that kind of thing will come before them, rather than those judges who judge a small town and who have to live every day among those people who are partying in the process. Besides, there are lawyers in these cities both sides and it's not quite logical that something like that can be manipulated. In addition, there is an appeal procedure, there is a court, let's say, when it comes to the Municipal Court in Vranjska Banja or Raška in the second degree, the District Court in the King decides, so if someone is just so powerful that they can influence, there is someone greater that such a court ruling will end. So we can't see that it's one of the reasons for passing one of these laws. There's a complete centralization here. Neither parties in the process nor citizens of Serbia are considered here. I also have to say that domestic lawyers in areas where such courts are made as judicial units, senior courts, will be damaged and some of them (known to have 40, 50, 60 lawyers in some of these cities) will be threatened, have business problems, and may have to look for other jobs and do something else. You didn't think about it either, I was also in the debate in principle, that perhaps even for the best judges we have now in some small cities, which will be in the area of another higher court, and then going to go to some judicial units, it will be a great effort. It is known that in the judiciary there are extremely many women judges who are mothers, who have two or three children. These kinds of burdens – a journey of two or three hours in one direction, and a day that is extremely hard, you know what it looks like, a return, maybe a dozen times, to end a dispute – are likely to drive some people who are excellent judges out of the judiciary. These are some additional efforts and the people who applied for the court did not know that one day they would face such a law. The same problem exists with the functioning of the appeals courts, because some of the higher courts and 200km away from the seat of the appeals courts (Nogotin, Užice and some other cities), so I am afraid that I will apologize to the branch and all the holders of the judicial functions, in Serbia we will have practically one "loose circus" that will sort of wander from city to city and we will have a completely undefined state. I repeat that in every city there are holders of legislative, executive and judicial authorities, that the court is the image of a city, that there was no reason to, at least in the name of, remove municipal and county courts and translate them into basic and multiple courts. Some powers could be considered, to measure it in some way, because we are introducing appeals courts; and I have no objection to the term of the Cassation Supreme Court. I think it could have been in a more painless way to overcome and certainly that would have been better for the holders of judicial functions, for the citizens of Serbia and, of course, for administrative workers who would be extremely affected by such a law. I must also point out that for those courts that only at the office level will practically remain alive, with some days in which, when that system of notaries, or public notebooks, will be introduced, the question will also be raised by those offices, which will function. I think we are going to Europe and that day will come very soon in Serbia. Once again, there was no reason for the names of municipal and district courts to be abolished and to be named as primary and senior courts. Of course, if I'm right, whether New Serbia's MPs are right, time will show, but make sure that this is the way the law will apply and that judges in Serbia will not be good, I repeat, because of some territorial, very bad solutions. The worst thing would be, and that could happen, of course, none of us want that to happen, the increase in criminal acts. Of course, when this law comes to life and it starts to apply, we'll see who's right. Once again, New Serbia's MPs warn in time that such laws are not good, that such a law, which is likely to be passed in this assembly, is not good, both for Serbian citizens and for the country's complete justice system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8811	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8812	Dear fellow Members of the People, through a discussion on the proposal of this law, somehow carried out the opinion that this law should be withdrawn or that we would understand that the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors had come to the agenda, that the Ministry had found some reasons for rationalising, the possible abolition of any of these courts or the removal of certain courts, but this brand-new organisation, and the new seats of the courts, obviously met with the disapproval of a large number of MPs, of course both the courts and judges themselves who are working in them and the citizens who will be damaged. The reason the Ministry's doing this is supposed to be rationalizing, but we think it's exactly what seems irrational. We think it's no new invention of our government, she's simply forced to do it. I am adamantly saying that this is a condition that the European Union has set before us. She has done so in other Southeast European countries that have already entered the European Union. One of the reasons for this is the lustration of the judges, and it's certainly behind this law, only no one from the government will say it out loud, but the judges feel it, know it, and, of course, raise their voice, believing it's not in accordance with the Constitution. And it's not in accordance with the Constitution. After all, in Poland, such a thing has been tried in time and, behold, I will allow myself to quote the author of this book "Agreements Against the European Union" by Master Dejan Mirovic, who gave us a fine example of what Poland had to do on its way to the European Union in terms of lustration, because I claim that this law has come before us precisely to elect new judges. The Kachinski brothers' regime tried to solve its problems with lustration and passed a lustration law that came into force in 2007. What were they looking for? However, they did it obviously, not as it is done here in Serbia. 700,000 people are asked to sign a lustration testimony and fill out a form with a question – did you secretly and consciously co-operate with former communist services? In our case, that question would probably sound a little different, you would say only – the former regime. All high-ranking officials, professors, lawyers, school directors, stockholders, judges, professors (I'm a professor at Catholic universities), had to sign a letter like that. Who didn't sign? The former Polish foreign minister, otherwise known as dissident and MP in the European Parliament, Bronislav Geremek, has threatened the state election commission to withdraw its mandate because he did not want to fill out the form. He replied that he understood this as a violation of the rule of law and the will of the voters and, of course, caused a violent reaction in the European Union itself, and even a prominent magazine "Mond" and an editor of the magazine, Ignacio Ramone, said that a defunct law that caused a scandal in the European Union and that it is the main warrant for furiose witch hunting. Afterwards, the constitutional court put the law out of force very quickly, but it is all evidence that what Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, in all areas of social life, started from the judiciary through agriculture, through culture, public information means, something that is imposed on us. If we weren't surprised, we'd do well to deal with it. If you don't have that building, it's in this book that I strongly recommend. First of all, I went out for a pay phone to remind you of what the judges and presidents of Kosovo and Metohija think about what you predicted to be the headquarters of both the basic and the district court only in Kosovo Mitrovica. The arguments they give about how many settlements the non-Albanian animal lives in, let's just say for the municipality of Gjilana and Kosovo Kamenica, etc., are arguments that speak in favour of being able to move; let's say, if it can't be a basic court in Gjilan, it can be in a village near Gjilan, but it can be locally responsible for the whole area. I was interested, first of all, in their consideration of how contrary this law is to many resolutions that we have even brought here in the congregation. That's why I'm going to read this argument that we got from the president of that court. He says this: "The solutions proposed by this law were envisaged in the Ahtisaari plan, which no state body of our state of the Republic of Serbia has ever accepted. These proposals are in direct contrast with all resolutions that have been made so far and are now being prepared for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." It really is. If you remember, we always had at the end of every resolution to commit all state authorities to ensure the smooth functioning of various bodies on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. This law is really directly contrary to all these resolutions. I thank the President of this court who has turned our attention to such a thing. I will also remind you that various state officials, starting from the president of the state to the Prime Minister and also foreign ministers, have repeatedly said that they will never allow Kosovo and Metohija to be separated from the state of Serbia in a unilateral, illegal and anti-constitutional manner. This is how we really separate them from the state of Serbia. To some extent, this bill is contrary to Security Council Resolution 1244, and even with this latest statement by Ban Ki Moon since, I think, October 2008. If you take a good look at it, you will realize what a mistake has been made if we do not show our willingness to allow non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija to live normally, to feel that the state of Serbia, even if this is to the detriment of your rationalisation, even if this may cost the state of Serbia, but to show that we care about the functioning of the state authorities there. And courts are one branch of government that is very important; if there is no parliament down there, if there is no government, then at least the judicial branch of government could function the same way it has functioned so far. Thus, by withdrawing all courts only to Kosovo Mitrovica, we show that we have actually handed over Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8813	Thank you. Mrs. Milica Radovic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment by Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic shows how bad this bill is. In the principle debate, I was talking about all the objections the DSS has on this bill, and the most important thing is that it is absolutely unacceptable for us to abolish all four municipal courts, without any criteria, without any advance serious analysis. We believe that this will significantly undermine the availability of justice to citizens, because we will have a situation that citizens will have to cross who knows how many miles to reach the court. I simply do not understand the concept that the billmaker had in mind when he referred this bill to the Assembly. If the aim is to rationalise the network of courts and if the aim is to reduce costs, it is certainly not achieved by this law. In the principle debate, I said that the costs would not be reduced in this way. We'll have a situation, if we're going to have a trial in a court unit, so the judge can adequately prepare for the trial himself, he'll have to, either personally, or send the driver, to go to the courthouse several times where he'll be, I suppose, the office to meet the case files. If the search or hearing is held in the judicial unit, you will have the obligation to all witnesses, experts or possibly interpreters also go to that judicial unit for the purpose of maintaining it. Don't forget that each of them has the right to compensation. In places where there was a court before and where trials took place in the languages of national minorities with this bill and the courts will literally be abolished and we will have an obligation to engage court interpreters in these cases in order to enable members of national minorities to use their language in court proceedings. The involvement of adequate court interpreters can sometimes be so problematic that they will force the parties themselves to give up their own language. Many MPs, primarily representatives of national minorities and Mr. Riza Halimi, spoke of this both now and in principle. What do these accomplish? Not only will it increase the costs of recruiting court interpreters, which should not have been hired before, but it will have one dangerous consequence, which is that members of national minorities will give up using their native language. They will be prevented from using their rights which, among other things, are guaranteed by the Constitution itself. That I am right to confirm the example that in Alibunar we have judges who are only qualified to conduct court proceedings in Slovak and Romanian; in particular, in Kovacica you have judges who are trained to conduct judicial proceedings in Slovak, in Bosilegrad judges who conduct proceedings in Bulgarian. The question arises, if you abolish these courts, where will you find judges who are qualified to judge in the languages of national minorities? While the Democratic Party of Serbia was in power, we also took care of the rights of national minorities. We will all remember that we have passed the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, where we have predicted that representatives of national minorities to be represented and represented in the National Assembly have no obligation to cross the censorship, but to cross only the natural threshold. Also, we have brought the Constitution where one third of the provisions is dedicated to the issue of the rights of national minorities and even minority rights. I have expressed my concern earlier, and I am doing so now, that this draft law will not organise the work of the Belgrade judiciary in the most appropriate way. I'm simply asking how did the ministry's representative ever imagine that there was work going on in the Belgrade judiciary? Instead of the five municipal courts we now have, we will have only one basic court, which will be responsible for the territory of the entire city and another basic court, which will be responsible for the territory of the suburban settlements. To remind, and with all the five municipal courts that we now have and with all the judges who act in the Belgrade judiciary, it is very difficult to provide a reasonable trial, not because the judges do not want to work, not because they do not know how to work, but because they are not provided with basic, elemental conditions so that they can work adequately. Several times I referred from this pay phone to a problem that plagues all judges in Belgrade. They don't have enough court numbers. This is why trials take place every second or third day, and later hearings and searches are rarely scheduled, and then in the end we all come into a situation to criticise the work of the courts themselves. Simply, I don't think the ministry's representatives have the answers to the questions of how many courts will have the Belgrade judiciary, how many courts will have the criminal department, how many courts will have the litigation department, where the administration will be and where the offices will be. These are the questions that we at this point, and even the representatives of the Ministry themselves, do not have an adequate answer. Of course, to conclude that the number of judges will be smaller because it is a public secret that everyone is talking about planning to decrease the number of judges from 2,400, as many as there are now, to about 2,000. I simply appeal to the Ministry's representative once again to consider withdrawing this bill, it is extremely bad and I don't think there is any possibility of repairing the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8815	Thank you. The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8816	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I must say that I am greatly surprised by the exposure of Mr. Pourke to what he has actually told one truth about this eight-year rule of the Dossian government. He said what we were always saying in pre-election campaigns, and probably for this assembly speaker – that DOS and those as parts of that DOS had done nothing for these eight years, especially where they promised to improve the lives and standards of citizens, especially in southern Serbia. You said there was no travel infrastructure. Business facilities have been destroyed. And here, this is one model where it wants to be destroyed, so to speak, the institution of civilization. As Mr. Shami has said, schools, hospitals and judicial institutions are being destroyed. In the end, there will be the most important ones, which are churches. You probably have a mosque, too. When you look at it, it's the way this DOS government actually goes. He's on his way to close down certain municipalities. I must honestly say that the President of the District Court has called all the presidents of the municipal courts. He called on all MPs to give their opinion and to listen to the presidents of the municipal courts what they think of theirs, so to speak, closing. I have to tell you, they were surprised. And where the presidents of the municipalities from your "yellow company", they were surprised, too, because they realized it was another big attack on the citizens of Serbia. Understand that for municipalities that are in the Sabbath region, not to tell the district, those four - Vladimirs, Koceljeva, Bogatic and Sabac, the area where everything is transferred or dominated is a Sabbath municipality. I'm asking you, where there's great judgment, where there's a great struggle for survival... When I say survival, I mean the white plague that has affected these areas and how these young people are going to get a job, because they have a great desire when they graduate from college, when they finish their legal studies, to return to their environments, to help those communities with their reputation. You don't care about that. You probably got one assignment; I think it's a deal with political inexperiences. You know, however, that many judges and many court presidents are not from your political option. You don't know how to deal with them, but it's actually the way and the way to get them out of those positions. It is not your desire to help that institution increase its reputation, reduce crime and corruption in that institution. No, I don't. You know it well, because in many municipalities across Serbia there are many Bojans. There are those who have robbed many of their public enterprises. There are those, like I said about this assembly speaker, who didn't take the money, but they took something even bigger, which is flats. That's why in this Serbia it's impossible to fight and it's impossible to stop... You saw G17 representatives here yesterday trying to justify what happened. Understand why this audit institution, which has to work and which has to take care of it, does not work, so from the purchase of HTZ equipment in certain public enterprises to large investments. Probably the lady in question doesn't know, because she's probably opposed or supported this law and this law, with the quasinarian Hannibal Kovac, who's been conducting dialogues with certain people in Capac. It's the heart of the heart. Probably the same lady, who was the director of a public company, once a utility company, wouldn't let... It is Valentina, or Daniela Lovrin, and her own sister is Valentina, who is also the director of a public enterprise; they do not allow audit institutions to investigate the business of these public enterprises. I'd like her to go out for a congregation pay phone so I can answer her as much as she has and in what way she has abused her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8817	The word is Mr. Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8818	Ladies and gentlemen, listening carefully to all the discussions can say that the unequivocal position of all the parliamentary groups and all the MPs is that the situation in the judiciary is not good. Mr Batic stated that none of the 220 judges who participated in the famous election thefts were relieved of their duties. A large personal grander in eight years has not resolved a single judge, which is the best indication that the judiciary is not only ready to change itself. Twenty judges of the trade or former business court in Belgrade have been charged with crimes against the judiciary, primarily with violations of the law by judges, but also for participation in so-called. The bankruptcy mob. I listened to my colleague Srdjan Spasojevic and all my colleagues and, indeed, what life and the question of tomorrow's application of this law requires serious analysis. And I tried to answer my own questions about how it will all work in the rules of procedure that will tomorrow be done by the President of the Court, just as far as the judge's journey is concerned, the possibility of getting to know the cases, the court files, the need for an expert to get to know the cases, etc. Since the municipal court was mentioned in Rasko, my first encounter with that court seemed like this: the hearing was scheduled at 10.00 hours; I appeared at the given time, there was no living soul in the courtroom. At 11:00, I started looking for both the judge and the notary, etc. When I found them, I got a notice that they orally delayed the hearing by 14.00 hours, because the New Market artist is finishing his morning shift, so he'll do what he has to do before the end of work. And my colleague asked me if we could do the trial, if I could imagine that there's a prosecutor's attorney and he's staying in a lawsuit and a lawsuit, then I agree, we sign the record, and when he gets back from New Market, he'll sign the report. A respected court expert told me, otherwise a neuropsychiatist, and I think he wrote perhaps the most significant books in these areas, that he never confirmed the causal link between alcoholism and crime. On my question why he didn't do it when his books say something else, he said – I was born in this town, there I'm an expert, those I work with are my neighbors, associates, etc. And I just can't fight them. I think the Serb judiciary's cancer wound is the existence of these local lobbies, and anyone who comes to any court in Serbia will first ask you about a lawyer with good ties. He's not going to ask you for a lawyer who knows how to do his job, who's professional, correct, decent, but who's going to ask for someone who can do something about it in a hurry and get what they're looking for. In terms of solving these issues, of course, the paths are different. The other day I was talking about an appearance in front of the Municipality court in Zrenjanin, and I was also talking about the experts and the law on court experts who will be in the congregation procedure next year. At the same time, Evening News released a text Friday about the fact that no single doctor has lost his job due to a medical error without talking about criminal responsibility or the loss of a license. For what? Simply because of what we all talked about – because everyone is networked, which everyone covers, and when someone's responsibility is asked, it's always easy to find a connection to cover it up and say, come on, it doesn't matter, it's wrong, it won't be another time. That's how it goes suddenly, and citizens with full rights lose their trust in the judiciary. When I was talking about the Municipal Court in Zrenjanin, I said that I would mention a phenomenon that would result in an epidemic in front of the City Court in Novi Sad. According to our orthopedist, Professor Milovan Zečević, several billion dinars have been emptied from the funds of insurance organisations so far, in a very simple way: The most severe with the tragic outcome, but the easiest ones that can't be verified by X-rays, where there's only stretching so-called stretch. soft neck structures, ligaments or neck muscles, enough for a lawyer to send you to a doctor, to ask if you have any subjective problems, you will say that your neck hurts terribly and you immediately open the way to get 500,000 dinars, plus court costs. As an insurance company's representative for 20 and a few thousand cases, I've encountered a number of door-to-door bumps, and then three years ago, in one year only in front of the municipal court in Novi Sad in 180 cases, times 13 insurance organisations, so that's over 2,000 cases. The most dramatic case is, here's one record, where there's only light damage and a slight damage to the swamp, but the doctor of emergency surgery in Novi Sad found his six boys to be stretching the door, everyone started court proceedings, and I think simply by recording the magnetic resonance, it would have been determined that in most cases the doctor's relationship, along with the court's expert and attorney. Often, in order not to be wrong about the judge, the judge is put in a matte position: there is objective medical documentation, there is a finding of an expert; the judge is not interested in one case, which will be very easy to solve because of this formal cover, goes into detail, that he is looking for another skill. The second expert of course, probably knowing him, will easily come into contact with the previous expert and agree. In this simple way, first in front of the Municipality Court in Novi Sad, since the new year in front of the Municipality Court in Zrenjanin, and now slowly the Municipal Court in Vrbas, we have one vicious circle and the solution is not seen. I have proposed some solutions, and I think that all the objections made in terms of territorial organisation, regardless of which parliamentary groups they come from, should be taken seriously, that this should be taken into account first of all in the making of the Rules of Procedure, and that it is really necessary to change something radically not only in the judiciary, but also in the police, health care, in all areas of society, which the SPO said in the 1990s, when we were looking for root social changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8819	Thank you. Time's up. If you can in these two minutes... According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Todorovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8820	I'll try for a while. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mr. Chikiriz has brought out is the most serious criticism of the government. The opposition MPs who have been coming out here so far have defended their amendments, but such a comprehensive criticism of the authorities, so to speak, in all segments, we have not heard from this pay phone so far. Now the basic question is asked – how can, above all, the SPO, be in that government, not only in this government, but in the previous authorities, and nothing has been done to solve these problems, not just radically, as you said you wanted from the beginning, since the 1990s? What you're saying is about the fact that we point out on a nonstop basis, that in these eight years since DOS came to power, not only has nothing been done, but the situation has been further worsened for both the state and the citizens of Serbia, especially when it comes to such important segments as the judiciary, health care, you mentioned education, and all of these problems we face. In particular, the problems are multiplier in works related to the enormous spending of budget funds, such as public enterprises, which were all institutions serving the ruling parties, primarily to house their staff, to ensure through public enterprises that they finance, or make good money for individuals, through these public enterprises to finance parties and thus spend the hard-earned money entered into the Serbian citizens' budget. (President: Thank you. ) This is a problem that needs to be solved, and it certainly does not want to be solved by laws that 130 and change amendments arrive at. Only the fact that 15 to 20% of the amendments to the proposed laws speak for themselves is that the proposals themselves are not good, and that depends primarily on you in position, not the opposition. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-02-0.u8821	Thank you. Today's work will be done. It's ten o'clock tomorrow. The word is Milos Aligrudic, the first one tomorrow morning. Thank you for your work.
