ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 200 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 123 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Let me inform you that no one has informed me that he has been prevented from attending the National Assembly session. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Mr Sasa Jankovic, the Citizens' Protector. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session for Thursday, 25 September 2008, within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the request of 116 MPs. With a call from the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, which was convened at the request of 116 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session, with a certain agenda, contained in that request. As you could see, for the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposals for decisions on the termination of office and election of members of the National Bank of Serbia Council; 2. Proposal for a decision on the selection of Deputy Protectors; 3. Proposals for a decision to suspend the duties of judicial authorities; 4. Proposal for a decision to appoint a deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Meho Omerović, based on Article 90 of Item 3 and Article 140(2), and pursuant to Articles 160, 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint single search be carried out on: motions for a decision on the termination of office and election of members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, a proposal for a decision on the selection of Deputy Citizens' Protectors, proposals for decisions on the termination of the duties of the holders of judicial functions and a proposal for a decision to appoint a deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does MP Meho Omerovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that the 124 votes against no one with abstentions were, there were none who had not voted, of the 124 MPs present as a whole. We are moving to work on the agenda, with the conclusion that Mr Meh Omerovic's proposal has not been adopted. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Radojko Obradovic first reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2230	Thank you, Madam President. I suggested I advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure before there was a vote, for the simple reason he was injured by article 83. Please give your word in future before we approach the vote. Article 83. The Rules of Procedure say that all acts must comply with the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure. Point 1. is the selection of members of the National Bank Council. We have brought a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 105. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to elect the National Bank Governor's Council. According to the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is no longer a National Bank Council, but a body called the Board of Governors. A year ago, when we discussed this same issue, we were preparing a law that predicted that the National Bank Act should be amended, which predicts that this body is otherwise called. Today we have a selection of non-existent members on the agenda. There's a direct violation of the Constitution. On the other hand, when you look at the existing law, Article 92. The National Bank Act provides, in paragraph 3, for five members of the Council, president and four members to be elected for one, two, three, four and five years. The 4th position is said to be elected by the end of the term of office in the event of the end of the term of office. The idea is more than clear from these two points of view. The first member was elected for a year, the second on two, three, four, five, and their mandates end in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 and the National Assembly each year selects one member of the Council. It is now proposed to amend two members, to elect two members of the Council to whom the term of office takes five years, which means that Article 92 will be broken. The Law on the National Bank, for one year we will have a choice of two members, not one year at a time. This is why I believe that this point should not be an integral part of the agenda, because they were violated, on the one hand, by the Constitution, by the National Bank Act. The point should be withdrawn and aligned with one act or another. I would ask the President of the National Assembly to make a statement on this proposal, since, at the same time, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and then to see what we will do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2231	You've made an absolutely accurate finding that the Constitution no longer figures the concept of the National Bank Council, but the Board of Governors. The constitutional law, Article 15, gave the deadline for harmonising all the legal acts, including this, with the Constitution and in that sense until 31 December it is necessary to carry out this harmonisation, so that the concept of the National Bank Council remains in the law. I would also like to inform you that we have reminded the Government and sent her a letter as a Assembly, regarding not only this particular case, but, in general, for this deadline until 31 December to bring all legal acts in line with the Constitution. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2232	Madam President, you have violated Article 27 and Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and for now I will quote only Article 83, and regarding Article 105. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, Article 83 states: "The draft agenda of the National Assembly can only include those proposals for acts prepared in accordance with the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure". When it comes to Article 94 of this Rules of Procedure, it refers to the possibility of bringing the debate together, and when it comes to the way decisions are made, it is written in Article 105. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, according to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, is directly applicable because there are no other provisions relating to the way of work and decision in the National Assembly. You are, according to Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, under the obligation to apply the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, including those which refer to other legal acts, such as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act in the state. Six or seven minutes ago, you drastically violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You put the motion to the vote at the time when there was no voting quorum in the National Assembly, you found that the vote was made and you realized that the proposal put to the vote did not go through. What you did, it's legally impossible. The vote couldn't have been, there was no way that any vote happened six or seven minutes ago. The National Assembly has not declared itself because of Article 105. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, in point 1. The National Assembly shall make decisions by majority of the votes of the Members of the People, at the sitting where most of the MPs are present. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as the Assembly does, most are found by electronic means, by identifying the number of MPs who have identified themselves by inserting cards into the electronic voting system. That's not what happened. There were 124 registered cards, and to decide the National Assembly it is necessary to have 126. So you have to admit, and that's what pleases us in that part, that there was no vote. You must withdraw the finding that MP Meja Omerovic's proposal did not go away because there was no vote. So the National Assembly did not come forward. As far as the motion to merge the debate is concerned, he is, in my opinion, completely unreasonable. When we took part in the ruling coalition, we suggested some way to merge something that could be difficult to take as the basis for joining the agenda points, but here you suggested that something be merged, absolutely, incompatible. What does the selection of members of the National Bank Council have to do with the resolution of judges, i.e. with the resolution of judges? Those two things can't possibly be in a relationship. If what brings them together is the fact that it's about human questions both in one case and another, it's a small foundation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2233	Mr. Aligrudic, it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2234	It's been three minutes, but I spent 50 seconds quoting provisions, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right. So I need you to count it on me, unless you want me to report back to you about it in the Rules of Procedure. So this is about you having a fear that the separation of the dots, i.e. the particular debate on agenda points, would cause a problem or a hindrance in the debate. It is completely baseless, because these issues are, in our opinion, extremely undeniable, except in the part that Rade Obradovic put forward, which we would not spend more than 15 or 20 minutes of debate on. Therefore, no time would be wasted there. You've put these personal questions, which, by the way, can be inserted into the course of any session of the National Assembly, into the agenda, just to get through as easily as possible. We avoided questions at our consultations, we had this up with you, on the first floor, which could cause some problem when it comes to personal solutions or human questions, so I don't understand why we're forced to join a debate about something that, in its own nature, alone, could not cause conflict. You're challenging him with this. This is exactly how you challenge conflict and believe, as I said in public, as I told you and the National Assembly speaker three months ago, the DSS will never do anything to block the work of the National Assembly and rules of any kind of obstruction. But then, both to you, privately and publicly, in front of people and journalists, and in this room, I promised that we would insist on reporting to the Rules of Procedure whenever you violate the Rules of Procedure, when you violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Believe me, from now on, it will always be and I can never give you an advance guarantee that we will not answer to rebel against violations of the Rules of Procedure on your part and violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's something you have to expect.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2235	To begin work today, 84 MPs were sufficient, and we realized by electronic system that 123 were present. When it comes to voting, we have found that 124 MPs are present and, therefore, there could be no vote with 124 MPs, but there are working conditions. Article 86 provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly, which should indeed be 126 MPs, in cases where the National Assembly is sitting in voting days, when the minutes are adopted, when setting the agenda, as well as at the constituent session of the National Assembly. As you know, we're not laying down today's agenda. There is a quorum if a total of 126 MPs are present. So these are the situations when 126 MPs are needed. The word is Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you remember that the SRS has requested a report from the MUP on all facts and circumstances during the organisation and organisation of the SRS rally itself. We have already raised a number of suspicions and facts at the time that the pre-prepared action that would turn this rally into chaos, savagery, destruction of Belgrade, and to accuse the SRS of it. Those facts were completely indisputable from the material we could see from the TVs that recorded events at the rally. At that time, we accepted that the MUP would do everything possible to give full light to all events at the rally and around the rally, so that Serbian Parliament MPs and citizens of Serbia had complete information about what was going on. The report sent by the MUP further supports our suspicion and our claim that someone organized the riots at the SRS rally. I'll just give you a few facts that show it. The report shows that more than 900 Gandarmeria members and 825 members from Serbia, outside Belgrade, have been invited to Belgrade alone, meaning 1725 members of the MUP have come besides those who exist and who work in Belgrade. The ministry identified a total of 310 members of the Star fan clubs, Partizana and Rada. According to what has happened, 1725 police officers, and elite police and gendarmes, are unable to deal with 310 people, young men who wanted to cause riots. We suspect that these riots are being conducted and encouraged by someone on the side to do what they did. Also, on the basis of the material, it is clear that in one part the police acted completely professionally, organized, that they prevented any incident, and in the other part, where the rally was held, they did everything, and it is seen, in order to strengthen chaos, to intervene, and not against the participants of the peers, but against the participants of the rally. These are things that are completely clear. And also, from this report, which is amazing, to no single fact, the Ministry has made it clear that it has triggered the responsibility of those who are really responsible for some of the things that happened at the rally. I'm sure these six members of the ministry are responsible for the excessive use of force, there's no dilemma, I think there's a lot more of them, but don't put all the blame on the lowest in the chain of command responsibility, on the perpetrators. What about those with much greater responsibility? How come no one is called to account for some things that are completely clear? There's been a violation of the Police Act. Where are the elders who broke the law? It says here that the deputy commander ordered the use of chemical and rubber bullets...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2237	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2238	I'm sorry, I'm finishing this, but I'll get back to you. You say the deputy ordered, but it is known by law that only the minister and director of the police can issue that order, with his consent. How is it possible that we have a police deputy whose entire operation a group of young men manages to beat up, along with his companion, to take his official walkie-talkie and continue to interfere with police actions? This report shows the incompetence of the police, although it could thus be concluded on this basis, but that there was someone who pulled all the strings on the side and who wanted to cause this chaos, and now to wash over what would suit six members of the MUP. There are a lot more things, but to avoid abuse of the pay phone, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2239	Mr. Dusan Maric, then Milos Aligrudić, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after reading this report on events at a July 29th rally in Belgrade, I have to admit I'm confused. There can be two explanations for that confusion. The first is that the blow that I got with the bat in my head left consequences, so I became forgetful. Maybe it's been taking on the features of the epidemic, because lately there's been more of us in the U.S.S.S. The second explanation is that this is a fake, haired report. I remind you that I got beat up by the cops I had previously protected from the hooligans, who tried to attack them with a broken glass bottle and a piece of concrete. At the Emergency Center, where I was admitted at 22.45 hours, doctors found the following injuries: head injury, haematoma, and head injury, haematoma, and neck and left shoulder protruding, bloody bruises on both hands, trauma marks on the cross. There's not a word about it in this report. It's only mentioned injuries in the spine area. There are only two options, either I am lying and 30 people who have seen the injuries I received, or the doctors from the Emergency Centre lie, I will read their names – Dr Sladjana Angelkovic and Dr Mirko Micovic, or the lies of the people who wrote this report. I claim that this report has been done from the beginning with a tendency, with the intention of covering up the real truth as much as possible. Basic evidence, the argument in terms of proving this claim is next. It's been two months since the event. In two months, none of the MPs, none of the members of this committee found fit to contact me, at least on the phone, to ask what happened. I do wonder, not as a man who has been struck, not as a member of the SRS, but as a citizen – how is it possible that senior police officers are making a report on an event where a MP, who is also a journalist, has been beaten, and that in two months they do not find it appropriate to contact him, to ask what happened, to hear his version of the event? Indeed, I have to read the names of these police officers: police adviser Dusan Puaca, deputy head of the task force, independent police inspector Goran Milinkovic, chief police inspector Milan Stanic, chief police inspector Nenad Mitrovica, independent police inspector Milenko Munizab, Major Bogdan Kosanovic, Major Zoran Sekulovic. It would be really interesting to hear the explanations of those police officers, to tell us where they were studying the trade, so they made one such failure. Only if it is not the following explanation – that they did not know where to find me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2241	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2242	Madam President, when you gave an explanation for my objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you should have asked me first if I was satisfied with the answer. I am not satisfied with the answer, and I am entitled to this direct replica after your presentation. And if you let me speak this afternoon, compared to what you said this morning, it doesn't make any sense, respecting the circumstance that anyone who comes forward for a breach of the Rules of Procedure has the right to get the word right now. Of course, when it comes to my reporting, it's about the same base and, when it's determined by order, of course it's got a priority that's by its nature a replica of your presentation. What's that all about? You cited Article 86(5) when you spoke about the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, and I previously found that you violated the Constitution, Article 105, when it comes to voting. You admitted that, you said there were no conditions for voting, that there were no more than 124 present in the hall and that the vote was practically not valid, thank you for that, but then, without any need, in your explanation, you spoke about how the Assembly found that there were more than 84 present MPs for work, which is not disputed. I have not heard anyone here dispute the fact that there are 84 MPs and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly; these are two different things. If your goal was to demean my previous intervention for breach of the Rules of Procedure and to make an impression on those watching TV that I was wrong, then you can't do it, and that's exactly why I'm reporting for replication. So you were answering something that no one asked you. That's the point. By the time I checked in, let me use another base per article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and may I remind you that in Article 106. The Constitution, in paragraph 3, states: "The National Assembly shall meet in an extraordinary session at the request of at least one third of the Members of Parliament or at the request of the Government, with a predetermined agenda". That provision is imperative. It does not contain any deadline, but if it does not contain a deadline, due to the narrow interpretation of constitutional provisions, because they can only be interpreted restrictively, because they defend human rights, above all, and here defend human rights for those who have elected MPs, i.e. citizens, in that situation, you cannot choose whether or not to call an extraordinary meeting at the request of a group of MPs, with a pre-determined agenda. You had a request from 108 MPs to pass, to cut it short, due to citizens, a resolution on Kosovo, months ago. From then on, you didn't put it on the agenda. We agreed to make some consultations on the possible final appearance of the text, after the Serbian Government withdrew its text of resolution, in my opinion, with the right, because nothing was right. At these consultations, I must say to the public, we have failed to overcome one serious problem, which is that it is not understood by the ruling majority that one proposal and another, one smaller group of MPs, but one - per article 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the procedure and that you have certain obligations under this proposal and that you cannot avoid these obligations, Madam President. Our consultation and agreement on the final appearance of the text of a resolution are considered to be a good basis to come up with a majority opinion in the National Assembly and we have never run away from it. So, instead of scheduled that session, you scheduled a session in the morning for tomorrow, 10 o'clock in the morning, at a completely different content, at the government's request. That's what's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2243	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2244	When it comes to today's session, I can understand that, because these personal questions can be put, I end up, during any session, I can only get involved. Why schedule a new session, with a new agenda, without having previously fulfilled your obligation under Article 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? It's something we can't understand. We think you continue to permanently violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We realize it takes some time to reach some final agreement. You can't replace that session with someone else before that. It's just impossible. You shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2245	Mr. Aligrudic, I'm going to have to read article 105. The Constitution to point out what I just said: "The National Assembly makes decisions with the majority of the votes of the MPs at the session at which most of the MPs are present. Most of the votes of all the People's MPs, the National Assembly, are listed all situations in which 126 MPs need to be. This is 15 situations: when amnesty is given for criminal acts, declares and abolishs the state of emergency, prescribes the measures of deviations from human and minority rights in the war and emergency state, adopts a law which allows the Republic of Serbia to entrust autonomous provinces and units of local self-government to individual issues from its jurisdiction, decides on the Rules of Procedure on Labour, when the immunity is lifted to MPs and members of the Government, the Civilian Protector, adopts the budget and the final account, elects the members of the Government and decides on the termination of the mandate of the Government, decides on the response to interpretation; then, when the judges of the Constitutional Court are elected, decides on their resolution and termination of the mandate, when the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the President of the Court, the Republic Public Prosecutor and the Public Prosecutors decide on the termination of their office; when they are elected judges and deputies of the Public Prosecutors, when they are elected by the National Court, when they are elected by the National Court, when they are held as well as well as the Governors, when they are held. There's no point-unification situation listed here, so I didn't hurt Article 105. The Constitution. But if you are not satisfied with this response, in voting day, the Assembly will declare itself. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we, the Serb advances, participated in the SRS rally, were also the target of the police attack and I must express my dissatisfaction with the report of the Republic of Serbia. I have to say, I can't wait for those of you who are now the heritage of the SRS to open a real debate about it. We will wait for this point to be on the agenda and we want to tell you right now that this situation cannot remain, that this situation cannot remain, that Serbia must not be covered with ash, that police brutally attacked Serbian citizens and that responsibility cannot fall on several unidentified police officers. It's a shame. I'm already apologizing to the families of those cops who may be left without bread, because the state is keeping the most responsible for what happened. I call on the interior minister to submit a new report, which would indeed be a report that does not undermine the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is an underestimation of the Serbian Parliament. If I were an authorized promoter for that point, this session would probably have a different course. Here, in advance, I'm telling you, prepare yourself well to defend what is indefensible, police behavior that day, and a report that the police justify their behavior. We will wait for that session only because of Serbian citizens, because of the future situation in Serbia. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I think it must be done immediately and as soon as possible, to be on the agenda. If you think this extraordinary session should end, let it end, expire in a few days. The first session of the Second Regular Session must be dedicated to this, because a new way of treating Serbian citizens who are in opposition has been opened. I would hate for the MUP to think that this report has given him a "cart blast" for any future behaviour towards Serbian citizens. Don't forget, gentlemen of the DS, you'll soon be waiting to stage a protest against the authorities. Surely you do not want the authority to be reckoned with you as you did with us that day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2247	Thank you. The word is Mr. Todorovic, so Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the DS, you have great responsibility for everything that is going on on Serbia's political scene. Unfortunately, it is not the first time that the government has tried everything to secure its reserves and to stay in power for as long as possible. It's not the first time. All the authorities so far have been trying to do this. It is normal to always throw out passwords on these occasions, call for some things that should be clouded and justified. For the first time in 1994, the SRS met with the help of the State Security Service, when the Council of Citizens managed to buy a number of MPs and thus ensure that the majority vote by the President of the Council of Citizens. Then we had the opportunity to hear many accusations against the SRS, the way it works, about fighting for democracy and human rights, etc. After a while, we learned what was clear to us and then, that it was done with the help of money. Among other things, one of the participants on a show called Insider, you know that well, he said that the operation was spent by some 100,000 euros on the State Security Service and we even filed a criminal charges for receiving bribes from those who took the money at the time. Then the DOS came in 2001, and, you remember, it was supposed to tear up the SPS. They used Banet Ivković, so then the wing went – DOS, plus Bane. Now we're in a new situation. You remember Banet drilling into his chest and saying he couldn't be in a party run by Mirjana Markovic. You all know, especially you from the SPS, what Bane Ivkovic was like when it comes to Mirjana Markovic. You should have thrown him a rope to get him out of a part of Mirjana's body. Now the new situation – ''The Hague dictator prevents reforming the SRS. We must fight against it, so a false dilemma is put on – Vojislav Seselj or that former deputy president of the SRS. Here is the dilemma – Boris Tadic or Vojislav Seselj, to be clear. There's no other dilemma. As far as we're concerned, things are completely clear. It's your responsibility. There are immoral people taking something that doesn't belong to them. You've heard of it - adversaries. I'm just asking a question, where were those advances in the election? I don't argue that everyone had a certain contribution, smaller or larger, in the SRS, but it was the SRS. So there's no dilemma. I ask you a second question, which is very precise – how is it possible for courts, municipalities' congregations, mandate committees to return the mandates to the SRS, and that is not possible in the Serbian Parliament? Where's the morale, where's the logic? You think by currently providing the reserve, you're done with the job? It's all waiting for you if we don't solve that problem once. You have a constitution, you have a law. Do whatever you want. As for the SRS, it won 78 seats in the elections and that belongs to the SRS. We don't have any dilemma about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2249	Mr. Aligrudić, then Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2250	Madam President, I am now telling you that I will be pleased if you do not answer my remarks. I'll tell you in advance. It's much better not to answer anything than to respond the way you do, because with each of your answers you challenge me to keep going out. That's amazing. You quoted Article 105. The Constitution, reading from the first to the last position, or paraphrasing everything that reads here, and I again quote Article 105: "The National Assembly makes decisions by majority of the votes of the MPs, at a session where most of the MPs are present." It's so-called. A simple majority necessary for a decision. It has only one qualified condition, which is that the sittings are attended by more than 126 MPs when any decision is made. When the Assembly works, of course, 84 MPs are enough. In Article 119. The Rules of Procedure states: "The decision is considered to be made if it was voted by more than half of the MPs identified, i.e. by the Constitution, most of them". Of course, these provisions are compatible, they're in agreement with each other and I don't see why and what kind of lecture you gave me ten minutes ago, claiming you didn't break an article. 105. The constitution, when you admitted 25 minutes ago that you broke it, because there was no vote. What were you trying to prove? I don't get that at all. So, most nicely please, if you want to avoid this kind of debate, best at my remarks on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, don't even react. Here, in advance I tell you that I will accept your silence with complete calm and tolerance. Just shut up about what I'm making as a remark. That's much better than giving any answers. Nothing's been going on with you so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2251	I thank you for your suggestions, but then allow me to realize that you were physically present and with you, reliably, was much more than 126. Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure as a member of the Defence and Security Committee. I want to talk about the report that we have received and what has been sent to the MPs, and, above all, to you by the task force of the MUP. At the very least, the report is fragrant. It contains some sentences that are, at the very least, offensive after the tragedy and death of Ranko Panic, especially in the work concerning his movement at the rally, which was held in support of Serbian hero Radovan Karadzic, not only him, but also the leader of Serbian radicals Dr Vojislav Seselj, at the time when tens of thousands of people were at a rally in the Republic Square. First of all, I can't agree with this finding of people who have estimated the number of participants. He was at least twice as big. On the other hand, everything that Mr. Maric noted in this shrub that concerns him, certain parts of the report, says in favour of the Serbian Radicals' claim that the whole event was staged by the DS summit, I am ready to say – Boris Tadic himself, in order to turn the patriotic gathering, attended by Serbs from Serbia, Republika Srpska and Serbia, into what Boris Tadic and his regime wanted that day. Madam President, please respond in the future, first because Minister Dacic is from the SPS, and especially because of the fact that you, I suppose, are also behind the authenticity of everything that is written here. It says here that participants were together Serbian radicals, as organizers, part of DSS and NS supporters, Movement 1389, FK's fan group "Partizan", FK's fan group "Red Star" and Serbian citizens. I'd ask you to respond in the future when some unidentified faces come out for a pay phone and they claim they were part of a patriotic gathering. At patriotic meetings, participants are Serbian patriots, those who defend Serbia's interests, those who defend and help defend those in The Hague. I ask you to respond, because no one has a moral right, especially those who are unauthorized in the National Assembly building, to talk about the rally that she organised and whose responsibility she was, as an organizer, ready to do everything by the Serbian Radical Party. That it was a staged action, in the fruit of the MUP and Boris Tadic, also tells the facts of this report. For me, what happens in the period after 21 hours is crucial. Namely, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, the leader of Belgrade's radicals, informed Dusan Puac that security of the SRS, which was at the most professional level and which it organised for days, could not react in a case that was happening deep in Macedonia's street, because it had nothing to do with the organiser, nor with the gathering and patriots that were in the Republic Square. He, in a phone call, told Mr. Puachi that at least something strange was happening and that this extreme group, as it was called in the MUP report, was pushing not in any other direction, but towards us who were involved in the rally. I have to remind you that the media, based on what the MUP members said, reported that night that the hooligans at the SRS rally caused incidents, destroyed Belgrade, etc. This is the sentence itself, in favour of what we claim from the first day, that it had nothing to do with the SRS. What is the epilogue of this - the loss of one life, not what the members of the MUP have numbered, how much equipment has been destroyed. Let's open a story about how many guns and what was stolen from the streets of Mother Jevrosima, November 29th, and from other police stations on October 5th. Do you want to talk about the value of TV, the burning building of the congregation? This is, above all, toying with the feelings of the tragically injured Rank Panic, but also all the patriots of the Serbians who came that day with the intention of warning that Serbia should not be a servant, that we, as a patriot, should defend not only Radovan Karadzic, not only Dr Vojislav Seselj, who are fighting for our freedom there, but to defend ourselves the right to freedom and normal life in this country. I'm proud of the fact that there were thousands of young people there. One of these analysts calls them – a new Serbian youth. These are Serbian patriots, young people, children, who were in diapers when Radovan Karadzic created the Republika Srpska and when the SRS, led by our president, was professor. Seselj, she cared for Serbian national interests, but these young people are our future. That's why we have to insist that the culprits of what happened are investigated to the end and their direct line with the regime and the top of the government. We are truly convinced that this road leads, like in that old legend and Greek myth where the ball turns, directly to Boris Tadic. We will not give up on that, on the assembly committee, or in this debate. Because, you know, it's hypocritical to talk like that about a tragically injured man -- where he was, what was his shirt, where he stopped by, did he drink anything, did he turn to him in front of the Mechana in Mladenovac and tell him who was beating him. It has been unequivocally found that he died, that he died and died of beatings, and we will fight to the end for that truth. Because if you all get over this easily, be sure that no citizen, no one will trust you, not even you from the DS, from G17 plus, from the SPS, however, when you come out and say, we fight for all Serbian citizens to be safe. No one is safe in Serbia, as of today, so in the future, until all circumstances are explored to the end and identify, by name and last name, the culprits for all this has happened. Please once again, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, I respect you as a serious woman, who knows who the political parties who went to the elections are, yes, according to this, from today on, and in the future return everyone to normal condition, and 78 SRS MPs from the SRS List – Dr Vojislav Seselj, to react in the future, because neither Milutin Garashanin nor Stojan Novaković sits in the hall. The only "progressor" I know in the O.R., who's long since declared himself to me, is Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2253	Thank you. He has the word Jadranka Vukovic. The fact is that 250 are certified mandates at a time when we are established, and so is today, so I can't act differently but in accordance with that fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am Jadranko Vukovic, whom you could have recognized in electronic and printed media these days as "some Jadranko Vukovic". That's what Branislav Nikolic calls me, I apologize, Tomislav Ivkovic. You know I'm the one, you'll know who I am, and we'll talk. I called about this man who says he'd know what he'd do if he were the one who suggested this report. Of course, it can't be a proposal for this report by someone who's betrayed the SRS. Of course he can't represent himself as a forwarder, and he can be an advanced traitor. What is most interesting, Minister Dacic, I am ordering from this session - let him further draft this report and direct himself to those promoters, who are falsely representing themselves as a party here, because I was present when this promoter, who answered the word here, received a message that you, gentlemen of the DS, organized a group of hooligans to do this at the rally. There's also a coffee shop where it's been organised, so let's go out with those facts and let's help Minister Dacic, let's shed some light on what's going on at the SRS rally, and we'll do the rest later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2255	He has the word Mr. Aligrudić, so Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2256	Madam President, I strongly advised you not to answer my remarks on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because whenever you do, you cause a new injury, or a new remark on my part. So, like this, I repeat, Article 105 states: "The National Assembly makes decisions by majority of the votes of the MPs at the session at which most of the MPs are present." That condition was not met during the vote. I made that remark. That's what you reacted to by admitting that it wasn't, and that's how it all ends. I don't see any reason for any further involvement in the discussion between me and you on this issue, but you're challenging this debate with every comment after I've continued to report to the Rules of Procedure, because you're opening up a new topic that I haven't talked about, which I haven't talked about in my previous presentation, so that you can create a picture of me talking about it, and how, my God, I was wrong, and you've previously admitted that you've admitted to a mistake. In that sense, I do not ask the Assembly to declare this violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote, because there is no need. Things are clearly clear and, when things are clear, there is no need for the Assembly to declare that in the day of the vote. In the voting day, we can only declare whether or not you or you have not violated the Constitution and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when you have not put on the agenda a session, or have scheduled an extraordinary session at the request of more than one third of the MPs, with an advanced agenda. I would like to remind you that 108 MPs have requested a resolution on Kosovo, in which at least two points are resilient to decide the National Assembly. The first point is the annulment of the illegal Kosovo Constitution, and the second is a clear, direct negative relationship with Eulex, which is just being implemented on KIM, which serves to take 15% of our territory by EU decision, which is also the main cause of the political conflict Serbia should have with the EU, because, if it is not in that place, it will never have it, and that means, in practice, giving up 15% of the territory. So it was an idea that was presented months ago and you did what was necessary, which I don't blame you for, to make consultations, to get some quality text. There's a group of 108 MPs on the table all the time, it's in the process, and you're supposed to schedule that session. I welcome the idea to come up with some text, which perhaps wouldn't be identical to the text that we suggested, but that would satisfy some of the main, basic criteria of the continuity of state policy, but it doesn't come to that, because someone here is distracting. At the consultations we held, Mr Bogdanovic, Minister for KIM, appeared, who brought us a text twice as bad as the one the government withdrew. In other words, to translate it into Serbian -- twice as far away from the continuity of state policy in KIM as the text proposed by the government last time. That's what's just amazing. Then the question arises what is your goal, not yours, Mrs. Slavice, but the goal of the ruling coalition. What is your goal – to never bring the text of the resolution, or is it your problem that for any text resolution you do not have enough majority? Perhaps these provisions I've read, technically, you have some majority, say, 108 or 112 MPs, versus I don't know how much, or you're trying to make a proposal that would be acceptable to the opposition, for LDP, so that you can collect 126 in that way. It is legitimate and I have no objection, but it will thus show who thinks in Serbia and who is in what political positions. So, the problem is that here, under the coat of form, avoids the essence. I would like to, so we did not, unfortunately, start, but we can continue – to talk about the essence of the problem and the essential things, not even that that matters so much, whether we have submitted the text resolutions, whether it must be on the table, so that it is submitted to the amendment, or whether it can be the common text of the Serbian Parliament. What matters to us is content. The content now offered by the Ministry of KiM is light years away from what is the continuity of state policy and we need to think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2257	The DSS parliamentary group actively participates in negotiations to form a common text and to discuss in Parliament a resolution rather than two resolutions. It's simple, the assessment is that the message is not good. That is why we do not put the text of a group of 108 Members, but it is also in line with your active participation in these agreements. This is simply information to the public that it is no avoidance to put on the agenda a resolution made by 108 MPs. Since we're working on harmonising that text, I sincerely hope we can do it. No agenda item has been placed. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2258	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, God very often shows his justice and righteousness, so when he creates a human being of the great body, usually reduces his brain, afraid that it may be torn away and not begin to rule the world. Since I have bad experience with the SRS godfather, I can't accept you as best man, but I owe you one shirt, so just tell me if it's number 46 or 47, I'd like to buy it for these changes of my name. I believe you have the right to do so, this is the National Assembly. You can like me or not. There's someone who likes me, there's someone who liked me until yesterday, so now he doesn't like me. So, I didn't even come here to like someone or not to like me, I came here to do it seriously. While it was working with you, I worked with you, when you can't come with me, I work as a forwarder, and what does that have to do with you now? Fight for your mandates, submit some request for those mandates to be returned to you. The mandates do not return to the congregation speaker, but to the decisions of the authorities, so it is done. I think I've earned my mandate and I've brought at least five of you into the assembly. I don't think any of you would be an MP if Dragan Todorovic and I hadn't visited all of Serbia and talked about the SRS. We're separated now. I don't want any conflict with you. Try not to insult me, and if you have to, insult me, because that's what I'm used to. There's one thing you need to know. It wasn't me who broke the Serbian Radical Party, and it wasn't me who ruined it, it was you, and you know it very well. If you'd just raised your head a little bit to remember what we've done in the last six years, which is why I'm in the party now, you'd accept that the party has to win. Since you accepted the motto that the party didn't have to win, you stayed where it is. There's little of us out there and we don't bother you, even sitting away from you. Try to raise the reputation of the SRS now, but not through the advances. We will fight here with ideas, not with the past. We're here to deal with the future, not the past. We don't want to deal with you. If you're already dealing with the name of Tomislav Nikolic, give some radical that Serbia knows and let him talk about me here, don't let some of these guys, some of you play for a pay phone, you're breaking my level. I'd like people with whom I've suffered terror and authorities and police for 18 years, do a lot of things for the SRS, talk about me here. The ones we brought into the assembly, you first need to prove that you know something, that you can do something and do it, except attack Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2259	The word is Miss Jovanovic, so Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2260	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Predrag Markovic has introduced a good parliamentary practice into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's a certain day, I think it's Saturday, and you probably know, when Serbian citizens can visit the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask you, Madam President, and also you, Mr Ristic, who have been advocating the creation of a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, though, when you started writing it, did not go beyond the preamble, because the Constitution is clear as to who the voters are and who they belong to. Really, I don't want anything that's air to communicate with, it's beneath my morals and my honor, my dignity. As Mr Seselj said earlier in the prison of The Hague, where he would return much faster than some expected, I really cannot help but tell myself that I am ashamed of having communicated with some people who betrayed Serbia, betrayed the SRS and what was created for the benefit of all Serbian citizens for 18 years. Not only do I not get into who and how many citizens know, it is measured in the elections, we will see what the next elections will make, but I am the advocate of having morals, honor and dignity to grace one man, one politician. If you're a politician of integrity, if you're someone who respects the party and the idea that you belong to, then you'll be performing without any complexity, without vanity because the president of the party is a doctor of legal science, one of the best legal experts known not only by the domestic but also by the international public, and you'll be proud of who you have to learn from. We had in our ranks, now disfellowshipped, a member who boasted for years that he was the best student of Vojislav Seselj. Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj, as a good professor and benevolent man, a man of broad democratic potential, always invites individuals to come to the correctional exam. However, there are those who can never come to the correctional exam because they do not work in the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. What I want to say, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, since you have this experience and since the two of us have commented on that day when the withdrawal of the parliamentary mandates of the SRS began, it is that we Serbian radicals will end up fighting to respect the electoral will. I didn't want to pick up the phone right now, and here, I went after a few tours of these speeches by my colleagues and some of them who can't represent us anymore in either beekeeping society or in a firehouse or in an association I don't know what. In any case, Mrs Dejanovic, I ask you, as a woman who, I suppose, respects democratic principles, you have this experience with Branislav Ivkovic, although you were not at this home at the time, but at the home of the Federal Assembly, that you have in mind that these are people who, for the sake of money, gain enormous wealth, as he has acquired it, for a very short time now, already an ex-member of the SRS, to do everything to make one idea, one patriotic, first of all, honest patriotic pride in every man, try to cloud false deceptions, blackmails, offering various privileges and all that. And you and I, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, live in Kragujevac. Someone on this Kragujevac weekly wrote and published on the front page – radicals divided into cradles. I guess they meant that the convention of the unification of the Serbian Chetnik Movement and most of the local committees of the People's Radical Party was held right in Kragujevac, 1991, when Professor Vojislav Seselj was elected unanimously for our president by all delegates. Not only are we not divided, but we, thank God, are cleansed. To use the words of a Russian academic, a lady who was at a scientific meeting on Saturday, in the House of Unions, titled - a retrial of the court murder of Dr Vojislav Seselj, a lady who knows best and how foreign services work, and how they operate in the area of our country, and especially the situation in the Balkans, academics Elena Guskova, who said this is good and that after all this and these apostates and traitors will come out stronger, even stronger, with the strength for the future and for the faith of every citizen of Serbia, to fight both the Assembly and the local self-governments, in every place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2261	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2262	Madam President, I could count, probably, one five minutes of members of the Rules of Procedure who have been broken. I'll say, for now, Art. 119 and 121. I am only doing this because we from the DSS, with your behaviour, have been provoked again, because you told Mr. Aligrudic, the president of our parliamentary group, how you saw that he was physically present and that on that basis you determined that there was sufficient number of MPs in the O.R. So you said, look at the stenographic notes. On the other hand, you have a business obligation and you know how to deal with an electronic voting system. For example, Article 119, paragraph 2 reads, "The time to vote using the electronic system is 15 seconds." You let the vote go between 25 and 30 seconds. You've directly violated the Rules of Procedure and, if we're going to make a big deal out of it, we can do it that way. You know why you did it, because you knew you didn't have 126 MPs on this left. You've been waiting for someone from the opposition to put your cards in order to have 126 and vote what you wanted. Our intention wasn't to do this. We wanted this to be over today, but you provoked this. You reaffirm what I said, which is that you are incompetent, as the ruling majority, to rule and to work. If you want to rule, you must be 126. You're breaking the Constitution. Where's Verko? Is it said that the mayors can't be ambassadors? Is it our fault he's not here? Where are your other MPs? Look at the new breach. Call the MPs of the assembly majority. Article 121 - People's MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them when leaving the National Assembly. Five cards, and there aren't any MPs in line 12, where MPs G17 plus sit. Five cards are in the electronic system, they're present. Where are they? You know, it's not the opposition's fault, the opposition isn't obstructing. The opposition is doing what she does everywhere in the world. It's our job to show you're an incompetent government. We don't have to put in cards. We don't have to give you a quorum. It's a legal way to fight the opposition. Don't yell at me, Mrs. Comić – Rules of Procedure, because you didn't put in any cards when you were opposition. So you didn't put your cards in, and you sat there. Don't say that. You have no right to criticise the opposition. Be cultural, don't get behind my back. Mr. President, warn your vice president that he's in violation of the Rules of Procedure, tossing me while I speak. The opposition only does what its job is to show that you are incompetent, as it is. You want to rule, you must be 126, you must be at the beginning of the day, and point.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2263	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answer only for the line and I will never go out on that issue again, just to answer Mr. Nikolic. I don't need his shirt, I dress modestly. My shirt costs two thousand dinars, a suit - six thousand dinars. I don't have any contact with "channers." I'm not going into Zekstra, his friend Rabbitic. I don't hang out with Miskovic. I don't hang out with Pecconi. Therefore, I am not ashamed to say that this costs me 5-6 thousand dinars, and on it – a thousand and a half euros. There's a big difference between him and me. Whenever he comes out for this pay phone to talk about morality, as the most immoral man in this house, I will always react. As for Professor Seselj, I've been friends with him for 20 years, but why should I brag about you. I'm a friend, I didn't even know him, Mr. Nikolic. According to that, morale cannot be spoken of by the man who stole the mandates. That's the key thing, that's what we need to talk about and that you from the ruling majority are thinking. So he needs to get his mandates back, so he can come out on the line. I heard Mrs. Gojkovic say the same thing last night, with which he thinks she's making some kind of combination. She also said the mandates should be returned to whoever got them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2265	The word is Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the SRS is concerned, we really have no desire to discuss at all the problem that has arisen in the SRS. We know the responsibility lies with you from the DS. It's true, though, that some things can be made clear to the end. There are SRS and there are people in the SRS who have decided long ago and others on some principles they will not give up. There are some who can go east and west, both north and south, like that ball in the roulette, throw it away, and turn around, and where it stops. As for the SRS and us, we'll stay on a path that we don't have to look down and be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2267	Mr. Shormaz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2268	I'm advertising an injury. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I would like to say, on behalf of the DSS MP, another reason why we see that the opposition is not guilty of Parliament's inefficient work, but still the ruling majority. You remember the SRS request, we joined it, but it wasn't our request for a report from the Ministry of the Interior and the working body. It was then said that the report would come quickly and then Parliament's work was unblocked. The opposition then blocked Parliament's work. The debate began on very important issues, what were the SAA or, for us, a much more important gas-naphtha arrangement with Russia. Here, now we've got a report, which is one big nothing. What do the opposition do now? Then we warned from the DSS that forming a working body, the Commission, whatever it is called, is nothing, that it means nothing, and that this answer will be one big nothing, because these are habits from communist times, in which, when you want to hide something, you form a commission, a committee, a working body, a survey board, and then nothing happens, nothing gets you, there is no solution. It turns out here that even the MP Pelevic, who was hit with a rubber bullet, says nothing in the report, is unknown. So, the report is completely irrelevant, empty. We at the DSS are interested in investigating bodies. We're interested in what the police did about the investigation, not the working body, what did she deliver to the D.A., what are the courts doing about it? Here for fans, when they do something, they find out in an hour and all the media are reporting it; you have reports and police, and Tom Zoric, and I don't know who not from the courts. For where one man lost his life, where huge material damage was done in the city, where 58 officers were injured, nothing. Who's to blame? Three hundred fans and six cops. It won't be like that. I guess you know who was in charge of the unit. They wrote at the beginning that there were 300 of them, and they listed exactly which club, and that's interesting, and the report also says well that they were separated, that they were in a certain place, that they were camouflaged, masked, practically arming, some of them, poles, stones, who knows what they were going for. That took a while. Why didn't anyone give the order, in those prep shops, to be broken, or someone deliberately let the police attack, or it was arranged to attack the police, so that those who organized the rally would be guilty and be bad guys? The report is one big nothing. You know who shot Pelevic. If you don't know an individual, you know who the unit commander is, you know where that unit was standing, you know where he was shot. None of it's in the report. In the end, it's gonna turn out to be a couple of cops. Police are good in Serbia, but it has to be commanded and has to be commanded by one who knows how to command the police. You obviously don't know, or you're willing to manipulate the police and sacrifice six cops and six families for your own interests. It won't work that way. Serbia is no longer one-minded, not a communist system, there is an opposition. We warned you about it, we warned you that you couldn't act like one and you knew this wasn't going to work out either. We will fight on this matter until we see who is responsible, and not only who is responsible for the incidents themselves, but who is responsible morally and politically, because someone has to be morally and politically responsible. One human life is lost and it cannot be forgotten. If we're talking about not finding the murderers of a man for years, and this is about Curuvija, be assured that we will talk about it until the murderers of Panic are found and that we will not stop, that we will ask that the investigative authorities and courts react once in this matter. So, life lost is tragic and it can't be stopped. Someone has to be responsible for that. If you don't know who did it, you have to be responsible for who's in charge of the police, and you know who it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2269	As far as the report is concerned, we acted in harmony with the congregation’s authority, requested a report, and received it. In the event of your interest and the need for the report to be considered in other ways, there are appropriate initiatives that simply need to be brought in line with the Rules of Procedure. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2270	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it is not true what you said earlier, that we received the report we requested. National MPs requested a report by the Serbian MUP on the events on the day of the SRS-organised all-Serb rally in Belgrade, and we received the report only in three paragraphs. This on the first page is the report by the MUP, and there is the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior, all three, informing us that Ivica Dacic wants to inform us that on the basis of this report, by his order, Police Director Milorad Veljovic made a decision on the suspension and to initiate a disciplinary procedure against six police officers for breach of official duty. He also wants to inform us that he has made a decision to remove the use of rubber bullets from the Regulation on the use of the means of coercion, because of the possibility of serious injury to the participants of the assembly and the unclearly defined method of classification of this means of coercion and authority to issue orders for its use. That, therefore, is the report of the MUP. What we read on page 16, this is a report by the task force on the facts and circumstances under which the citizens and police officers were injured on July 29, 2008, in Belgrade, during a public meeting organised by the SRS. So we didn't ask for a report from any working group. We don't care who within the MUP needs to determine these facts. We requested a report from the Ministry of the Interior. Even this kind of report doesn't tell us who actually did who this task force is, if Ivica Dacic as a minister isn't behind this, or the whole government. In this report, the task force that I repeat did not ask for, there are so many general allegations, on three or four sides is explained in which way the SRS reported a rally, to whom the MUP, when a walk was reported, etc., something that was completely unnecessary and which could only be stated in one sentence. There's still talk of communication. At 21.25 p.m., the leaders of all the forces on the ground reported a group headquarters on the Macedonian street, so they sat down and made a deal. It doesn't say if they were drinking coffee or sour water, so they said they would do this, that they would do it. So, this is absolutely distracting the people's MPs, distracting the citizens of Serbia, and most of all - hurting the family of the late Rank Panic. What we got in Part II - injured police officers and public meeting participants, here we have the names of some police officers who have been injured, but before that, we have initials of some police officers who have been hurting; we have only initials, no names and no last names. When it comes to the late Ranko Panic, we do not have a single sentence here about what the Ministry of the Interior has done and what it has actually found. What's important is that we have about the material damage, how many shields have been lost, how many helmets, how many protective masks, shields, etc., which should also have been contained in the report, but certainly shouldn't have been the main theme of this report. Our question remains – who killed the late Ranko Panic, whom six police officers were suspended, which is why exactly they were suspended, were they sacrificed to protect the name of the one who ordered them to beat up and kill the citizens who came to the rally, or were they just some fictional initials? So much is unsaid in this report and, in fact, this report represents nothing. In point 9), it was found that incidents and conflicts with police officers and the redistribution service caused extreme groups of public meeting participants. Extreme groups were given authority from the MUP, under orders from Boris Tadic, whose intention was to, at any cost, cause unrest at a gathering that was peaceful, like all SRS meetings, and we Serbian radicals insist on getting the right report. The family of the late Rank Panic hired lawyer Milan Terzic, who manages all legal activities in their name, which communicates with the authorities, and if it wasn't for him, the family of the late Panic would not have received an autopsy report, because they were told, mother and wife, that the autopsy report is not given to the family, that it should not be of interest to the family. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We will insist on a full report, establishing the facts about hurting police officers and participants together, and, above all, on the indisputable facts, that is to say, identifying the indisputable facts related to the injury and, later, the death of the late Ranko Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2271	Mr. Markovic, and Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we asked for a report from the MUP on the events, we felt that in the report we would find at least three things -- who ordered, who approved and who executed, as reportedly said, excessive use of force, which would be said in Serbian -- who beat up the MPs, who beat up the peaceful participants of the rally and who killed Ranko Panic. No one but the interior minister and the police director has the right to order the use of chemical and rubber ammunition. The law here is unequivocal. You can't hide it, how, by the way, there's a lot of this report on the N.N. face-to-face. They clearly acknowledge here that the Chief of Operations has ordered that chemical resources be used in all cases to refuse attacks, etc. So a non-legislative person gave this order, ordered the use of force. Only the Minister and Director of the Police Department have the right to do so. If someone did it and the minister didn't approve, then the minister is also responsible. I'm under the impression that this report was written by the N.N. The face, because it's crawling with "N.N.". Even so, the cops call SP, MJ, but they're NN, too, because there's no names or last names. It is symptomatic that in one place in the Report, the police officer told members of the task force that he had used the means of coercion, the official bat, according to the N.N. face, the moment that face was turned around and was trying to protect the other N.N. the person to whom the officer used the bat, etc. So everyone who got beat up is "N.N."and those who beat are "N.N.". It is particularly interesting to describe the event in which Ranko Panic was killed, an event where Ranko Panic suffered injuries that led him to his death. There's no autopsy report in this material anywhere, and the autopsy report is unequivocal. The medics who watched this clearly say that the blow broke the colon, caused sepsis, after which the man died. It's like this -- at that point, a police officer from the group described...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2273	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2274	... Passes by the N.N. persons who can be assumed to be Ranko Panic, after a few steps of parallel walk towards the MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2275	Mr. Markovic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2276	I quote, if it can be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2277	You're not quoting anything from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2278	Nothing, I'll get back to you later. Anyway, "N.N." The report said "N.N." face and "N.N." The minister will, because he has to approve this and he was in charge of giving us this, he's going to have to write another report.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2279	Thank you. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report under the terms of the article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm looking for the following answers and I'm asking the following questions. I ask that the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be provided with a complete plan of security of the public meeting and of the SRS rally concerning this report delivered to the MPs, a complete report to see what security assessment was drawn from those responsible in the MUP. I am looking for the lists of units that participated in security, and above all by the Belgrade Police Brigade, police units, territorial and interior secretariats from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and members of the units and units of Gandarmeria from all over Serbia, which was hired to secure a public meeting of the SRS. I ask that the Members of Parliament be provided with an electronic recording, which was recorded, of communications between the headquarters that managed security and other members, commanders and commanders, who commanded and managed units that participated in the security of the public meeting, the rally of the SRS. Also, to shed light on certain events that have changed from minute to minute, from hour to hour, the report is a good basis for a detailed analysis of how the use of force occurred and who took part in the disturbance of public order and peace, because it is the only way we can get proof of who ordered, who, what to do and how to act in a particular situation, when to use physical strength, when to use rubber, when fighting means, and the use of battle poisons at the SRS rally, especially rubber bullets. I've known this service for many years...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2281	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2282	... But this never happened, from 1945 to that rally. This kind of scandal didn't happen and it didn't happen that three thousand police officers couldn't control and control 200-300 Red Star fans, Partizana and Rada. What's important is that the report also confirms that they were not participants in the rally. So they weren't supporters of the SRS, but they were pre-organized, by groups, as they say, between 300 and 400. So this is the basis for a broader analysis and a deeper debate. I just asked those questions and I'm looking for answers. One more thing, if you'll allow me, Madam President...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2283	Five minutes, bring the place in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2284	I'll finish with one more note and one question I'd like to ask. The issue hides the danger of concealing the execution of the murder of Ranko Panic, being manipulated in public by the fact that he could die and have fatal consequences, as he suffered from a disease earlier. I'm asking the authorities why on page 14 of this report there's no record of it and any evidence of whether the competent authority and the applicant of the report requested an autopsy report? It is said here, in note, that the members of the task force had no insight into the autopsy report. Why? Did they look for him? Who, if they were looking for him? Did they get it or not? Why didn't they take appropriate measures against those who needed to be held accountable for the crimes committed at that rally? Why is there an autopsy report hidden, and it's been a long time? The competent authorities must make an autopsy report to deliver, in order for MPs, as representatives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have chosen them and in whom they trust, to fight for their fundamental human and democratic rights and freedoms. I'm asking, Madam President, for a report to be delivered, because I would personally like to make an insight into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2285	All these questions you've asked will be forwarded to the MAP. As far as the autopsy report is concerned, he must be considered in the investigation procedure as a document that is subject to secrets, and unauthorized disclosure of professional secrecy, as you know, is a criminal offense. So there's a possibility that you can... (Petar Jojic, intruder: According to the Rules of Procedure)... According to the Rules of Procedure, I am simply, as a court expert, obliged to inform you of that. All your questions will be forwarded to the MUP. Mr. Milan Veselinović came to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm one of the participants in the rally where this tragedy occurred that one man lost his life and dozens of participants were injured. I have been a member of the SRS since the early 1990s, since the beginning, in fact, of the pre-Serbian Chetnic Movement, and after the SRS, which means that I am a participant of all SRS rallys, at least in the essential centres of that Yugoslavia, and then these others, and today Serbia. Simply, we were lucky, we Serbian radicals, led by Professor Vojislav Seselj, who taught us how to fight for democratic rights and how to bring down power in a democratic way. We all remember, and especially you 'yellow', who have this omen of D-democracy, when the professor, the Duke Seselj, said - no one's authority is worth one human life. Even the one who throws a rock at a cop or any window, or glass, is the inserted element and everyone on it. It's never happened in as many years as we held the rally. I remember, in Novi Sad, when we were attacked by several thousand police officers from Spence, and we all sat down, tens of thousands of people sat there on the asphalt, and then what else did the police have left to beg us, come on, please, move and so forth. Gentlemen, I also attended your mittins when you had those noises, and it was their goal, especially SPO, to shoot and provoke the police, so that it would be your image for the West. That's where I was. I've spoken to many mytinisms, but one is true, there you all have to agree, the citizens of Serbia, Serbian radicals never went to the police, they never broke any windows, they never did anything like that. On October 5th, you showed these "dosmania", Dosovci, how Belgrade collapsed, and how the Assembly burned down, how you drink and kidnap in shops and robbery, abuse your hands and cocks to show the Serbs how you are to God some patriots. This last rally, which was tied to a patriotic rally organized by the SRS, is a disgrace to your authority. I was right there, near Macedonia, with my New Markets, where my three men were injured. One harder one, Dragoslav Nedeljkovic, and if they hadn't gotten him out of there, is an older man, more capable of cleaning up from chemical means, the question is whether that mob would have run him over and if a man were to stay alive. You held the guys with the "fantomimes" first, 30th down in Macedonia, according to Takedonska, at the Federal Assembly and challenged them, and then waited for the moment, the last speaker, to let those bandits walk towards an innocent people. None of us had any intention of doing anything and performing a protest. There were never people at our rally with "fantomimes," especially those who came out of your city board, which is close to the rally. I was an eyewitness when the cops came out...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2287	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2288	... From the City Board and calling the cops, let's go ahead, let's go chase, hit it. That's what we've been listening to. That's when I saw the devil take the joke away. We were protesting CZ when Professor, Duke Seselj, was arrested. We're all over the fence then, the police come, calmly, we all lie down on the asphalt, but we fought for our rights, just so we don't endanger anyone's life. Today you're making...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2289	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2290	... The circus, you're making a joke with the report, this is a disgrace. Well Mr. Moma Markovic said – MM, JM, DM, RM, let me tell you frankly, this is a disgrace, primarily of the SPS and DS. I said, and I repeat, that love of yours is like an elephant and a mouse, and it's going to go down quickly. I can tell you that it's a shame what happened, that we don't have data, clean and accurate data, that at least, in a way, we make it easier for this family to suffer pain and grief. What you're doing...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2291	You speak for five minutes, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2292	... Just laugh. What you're doing and what you did at this rally, it's the shame of all Serbia, especially the 'yellow' and Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2293	Mr. Fired Mihajlović, first. You'll wait a minute, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2294	Dearly beloved, not to be in a dilemma, we are not only talking here about the death of Ranko Panic, of a sad fact. It seems that in this assembly we speak most of all, Serbian radicals, if not the only one. This is about police brutality, over-authorization, something they've faced recently and accounted for developed democratic societies. Do we live in a totalitarian regime, in which the ruling party manipulates police officers for the purposes that suit them? Never forget that Ranko Panic died at a rally organised for the arrest of Dr Radovan Karadzic. It's one of the facts that is clouded by this call report on the 15-16 pages ahead of us. Of course, the signatories of this report were trying to prove from the stained vessels that Ranko Panic probably didn't dare say that openly, but between the lines, he's breaking through, guilty himself of his own death, from the description of the shirt he was in, all the way up to those two vines he drank when he came home. Everything is more important than what actually happened. The signatories, I repeat, thought this report was clever and had protected their profession or those of their employers, which I was already talking about, from the authorities, of course. However, it clearly shows that this is a major fraud. They reveal in all this their incompetence, their unprofessionalness. So, to be clear, I'm not talking about the police as an expert that's been affected by complete disorientation. There are people who have finished the police academy because of a sense of justice, officers who are truly sensitive to injustices, honest people doing their job. Apparently, there are others involved, who are there because of party membership and who are doing everything but their professional work. Here's who these people are. I think we could find out their names, too. It's the two who lost their badges, and that's what it says in this report, where it counts what the police lost to material assets: shields, bats, two badges and one official gun. We don't see what happened later with that gun, whether it was found, whether it was in the hands of the police. Besides, real professionals, real cops know there's nothing more dishonest than when a cop loses his gun or his badge. If he can't keep it, how will he keep the citizens? All this unequivocally tells us that someone cared that the assembly that organized the SRS would fail in this way, in one delirium of general fighting, to create general dissatisfaction in the people, including disappointment. However, your conspiracy, gentlemen of the DS, is easy to spot. It really stands for that finding made by my colleague Verica Radeta – that it's a single director, and it's a very bad, directed DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2295	Mr. Jovan Damjanović, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is happening in our country should not happen – dictatorship and murder of certain government functions, by the authorities, to kill citizens. If we want a democratic state, if we want to enter the system of democracy and Europe, we cannot in one democratic Serbia do what is happening. Ranko Panic's murder is a murder someone has to answer for. Not only does Serbia and the citizens of Serbia know about this murder, but the whole world knows about it. We have received a strong negative label from all over Europe and the world, that innocent citizens are killed on political myths. Please, all the institutions of this system, this must not happen if we want democratic, advanced, progressive and Serbia in Europe. This can't happen. Politicians who wish to retain their political functions in this country must not kill the people, must not commit murder, must not commit the system that every state has, and that is police, judicial and executive authorities, to imitate such attacks and such events as have occurred, a death case. Please, if there is no dictatorship in this country, because dictatorship is the past, one mind is the past, Communism is the past, what is happening to us now in the democratic system? Democracy is a government in this country. You are the bearers of all functions of government in this country. Why do such a disgusting killing of peaceful citizens happen? I'll tell you what. I've seen a movie, and it's terrible. In the largest dictatorial states, this never happened. I watched, there's a citizen standing in the hall, the police are coming, and he's beating him with his pendejos, and he's falling. This was a democratic and peaceful rally of support for Radovan Karadzic, a Serbian hero who created a Serbian state that did not exist up there. What are you yelling at? I say that you who do not hear and do not see. I want to tell you that Radovan Karadzic created a Serbian state, and he did not create a Roma state, nor a gypsy state, and you arrest such a man, you carry him into The Hague, you give him to the tribunals and various international courts to do whatever he wants with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2297	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2298	I said, it's not a gypsies state. For us Roma in this country are extremely bad rights and obligations, you all know that we are the poorest and poorest in this country, and this is what Gazela and many other settlements tell you, and the state does nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2299	Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2300	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think what is happening to us today is simply the twilight of parliamentaryism. Why? Because, not counting on a few laws that have ratified some international agreements, which are not laws in the Semantic sense of that word, this parliament has not passed a single law since its constitution. Given that the elections were before this, then the pre-election campaign, since the New Year's, the most legislative body has not passed any single law. It is defeat and it is the twilight of parliamentaryism. What we are discussing today, and what is on the agenda today, is being discussed in normal parliaments at a different point. Therefore, do not accuse the opposition of obstructing Parliament's work and say that 200-300 laws should be passed to comply with European legislation. No, that's what the ruling coalition is responsible for. She doesn't know what she's gonna do, for God's sake, schedule a session of Parliament. This is, for God's sake, Parliament's session. Now, in accordance with the provisions of Art. 225 and 226. First question for the government, and as far as it's concerned, something that's been ratified, which is the Energy Agreement. We see now that Russian Emergency Minister and Serbian Police Minister, which is an emergency, make statements about the Energy Agreement, is an emergency issue. Then we hear there won't be a highway line, that the maximum capacity is 10 billion cubic metres, which is just for our needs, that no feasibility study has been done, and that the Serbian side has actually suggested that 400m euros be the price for NIS. Is that true? We have nothing against it, the Russians want to have positive economic effects for themselves, and we see that the statements are given by the Russian Minister of Emergency and the Serbian Minister of Police, and the Minister of Economy is undermining his tail, silently, as a little mouse hid somewhere, while the Russian minister, I repeat to him for the third time, Sergei Shoig, Minister of Emergency, but not Serbia, but Russia, gives lessons, and he's silent as a little kitty. No one's fairing him anymore. One more question for the government. As we discuss here at the Lord's session of Parliament, it is blocked by the reserves of Nemanja Street and the corner of Nemina and Prince Milos. I personally attended the negotiations, on several occasions, of the current prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic, who served as finance minister, and former justice minister, fellow Petrovic, with representatives of the Toplic district and reached an agreement to pay them two billion dinars, or 25m euros, for 10,000 people, approximately. Why was that done? The election was coming. Fear of choice, fear of election results.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2301	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2302	I'm done. It's important for people who smoke in the rain, as second-class citizens, in winter, on sidewalks. That doesn't make sense. The state can't be somebody's mother and someone's stepmother. I said then – all the reserves will come to you, because some can't have the right and others can't. It's a violation of the constitutional rights of citizens, the most elemental. That's why I'm asking for an urgent answer, because once they haven't already arrested the corrupt judges from Kursumlia, who first paid off their families, their friends and some of the county's chiefs, and opened Pandora's box, then they have to pay everybody off, because that's the only way it's an honest state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2303	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Petar Jojic. Otherwise, your questions will be forwarded to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2304	I'm calling in an article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure and I insist again, although you, Madam President, intervened when I spoke about the need to deliver an autopsy report to the MPs, that it is for ethical reasons a professional secret and that this parliament should not also receive an autopsy report. You remember, Mrs. Dejanovic, when a Serb Martinovic was injured in Kosovo, when the Cypriot authorities claimed that he had committed self-injure, because he himself took a bottle and inflicted serious physical injuries on himself. Therefore, in order for no one to deceive and deceive the peoples and citizens of Serbia, it must be delivered to the National Assembly, i.e. I'm asking the government to deliver an autopsy report, to get an insight, so it wouldn't happen by chance if someone at the art school claimed that he died of an earlier illness. That's why it's not possible to bring these injuries into connection with the injuries he allegedly had before. In public, it speculates, and in the professional public, in the judicial authorities, so we need to remove that ambiguity and make this thing bright, to see what it says in the autopsy report. The autopsy report will make it clear whether these injuries, perhaps, I did Ranko Panic to myself and whether there was a suicide. As you know, everyone who sits here and knows Serbian citizens, that's not true, so no one can trick citizens or the Assembly. It is therefore necessary to make that report available. He's no secret. The public prosecutor's office and the court are obliged to ask the government, at its request, to deliver, if the MP asks a question, an answer and to deliver the report. I remain on request to deliver those documents that were referred to when it comes to the security plan – whether it was Grade 1, Grade 2 or Grade 3. I would also like to ask the MPs to be provided with an electronic recording of radio links held between field members of the police and their headquarters commanders, so that we can find out whether there was a failure or not. Gentlemen of the DS, you don't have to laugh. It's inappropriate when we talk about such serious things. This is about an organized attempt to compromise this rally, which was organised by the SRS. I claim that there is a ruling coalition and DS in this decisive involvement. She has to make bills -- what the interior minister was doing, what he was doing to an elder in the police. I have to say that we have good police, but my soul hurts when this report shows that only 5-6 ordinary members of the police should be fit, and that the only one who, by law, could give an order for the use of battle poisons and rubber bullets is not in line. It's obvious, it's proven. It has to go from the top to the bottom, to bring in the relationship, to see the report of the elders, to see the number of elders who participated, to see the number of members per unit, to see the report after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2305	You've been talking for five minutes. Will you bring an end to your exhibition, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2306	Please, I request the statements of the members against whom the proceedings are being conducted and who have been suspended. These reports will give you a number of answers that we couldn't find out here today, because there's no answer in this report, and those answers have to be provided by someone. We've got good police and we need to protect her. For those who were organized by the current government to participate, they are called hooligans, we are looking for the most severe punishments, because you put them in groups, you asked for them, and it was your desire to break the rally of the SRS. Therefore, now Boris "Broz" has to answer, to file accounts and to say – yes, or not; if not, to provide evidence for it. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be hidden or hidden. Those who attacked members of the police must be severely punished. Those who got physical injuries, members, must know who they got them from. There's one vague question. This report says, if you'll allow me just two or three more sentences. Excuse me, please. He says...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2307	You've been talking for six minutes. Would you like to bring the end of the exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2308	Thank you very much. There is one more thing, it is said – damaged or lost, and the report lists it, about 10-12 pieces of police equipment, so what is damaged and what is missing. How do they get rid of the IDs to the cops, how does a badge disappear? Who dragged the officer's hand during the intervention, then took away his police ID? Against those who attacked the police, severe punishments, because they're yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2309	I would like to inform you that the session of the National Assembly Legislative Committee is scheduled for 14 hours, will be held today at the Blue Salon. I'm asking Bojan Mladenovic to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the report says a total of 1,725 MPs from the interior of Serbia were present at a rally organised by the SRS, plus members from Belgrade. On the other hand, according to precision, there were 310 "Partizana" fans, "Stars", "Rada". Is it possible they couldn't deal with them? They could, but they wouldn't. They were waiting for a moment when we were to take an organized protest walk. The initiator of the rally is the Democratic Party, which wanted to face as many consequences as possible in this rally. When it was supposed to take a protest walk, it started with tear gas and rubber bullets, using excessive force by police, right on the Macedonian street, where we were supposed to go for a protest walk. The innocent people died that night. It's not clear to me, it's unreasonable the behavior of some members of the police and the gendarmes, because the footage shows that ten of them are beating one on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen, the first victim of Tadic's regime fell in that rally. A man's life is gone. Ranko Panic's release list shows that his colon broke from the beating, from the force of impact. They beat him to death. He was not hit by a bullet in Croatia, and here he was killed in Serbia, in the Serbian capital, by Serbs. Who, when will be arrested and detained for this murder? I have to remind you, a very short time ago, a person was found and arrested who dumped the B92 TV camera on a very short walk. It's not a camera worth more than human life. Also, police have footage of a complete rally, so they can easily determine who shot with rubber bullets and who overstepped the use of force. People's MP Dusan Maric has been injured with his spine since he was struck with a pendejo. Those blows could have been fatal, too. A member of the SRS from Voždovac, Slobodan Nikolchev, neither guilty nor debtor, was shot with a rubber bullet in the leg in Sremska Street. The bullet caused him a trumpet that must be removed by surgery. Similar things happened not only in Sremska Street, but in other places, where participants got hurt together for no reason. It's impossible to be just six responsible persons. How many citizens have been beaten up, how many have been beaten up by the MPs? Ladies and gentlemen, we need to get answers to the following questions: who killed Ranko Panic? Who beat up the Messengers of the people? Who beat the innocent together, and who ordered all this? Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to look for answers to all these questions until we get them, and we won't give it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2311	Thank you. Since we're mostly talking about a report that isn't on the agenda, I'd like to ask the heads of Parliament to meet at 12:30, and we'll continue our work at 13 o'clock. So, I'm setting a break until 13 o'clock. [[After break, 13,10]] We can keep working. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already spoken about this report, but, of course, the report is such that, indeed, every sentence should be analysed. I am talking about the task force's report on the facts and circumstances under which the injuries of citizens and police officers took place on July 29th. in Belgrade, during a public meeting organised by the SRS. It is interesting how this report describes the case of the late Rank Panic, what is stated in paragraph 2, on page 12. It is said – while the person described was located in the area, from the direction of the Macedonian street, according to the Republic Square, the cordon of police officers of Gendarmeria, a squad in Nis, and then the footage shows that a group of several police officers, without shields and with sleeves on their official shirts, according to Gandarmeria, a squad in Nis, is passing their specialist water, passing from the right side under the set cordon and, running behind extreme participants together, suppressing them in the direction of the National Theatre. At that moment, a police officer from the group described passes by the N.N. persons who can be assumed to be Ranko Panic, and after a few steps of a parallel walk towards the National Theatre, as seen in the video, most likely this N.N. The person enters a verbal contact with a police officer, who then hits him with his left leg in the area of the body. After that, N.N. The person is moving a few steps away from a police officer, but he is approaching him again and giving him another kick with his foot, after which several others approach him, several police officers, where they clearly cannot see their actions. A further review of the footage, it said, found that the same police officer, close to the incident described, also hit another N.N. with his foot. a face in the body area. So, it's very interesting that in that police footage you can identify the person the police say might be deceased Ranko Panic, but you can't identify a cop who hits a man with a foot, and then hits another man with a leg, and says it's working...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2314	Mrs. Radeta, I warn you, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2315	Here, just one more sentence. They say it's about Gendarmeria, a squad in Nis, their specialist water. Well, is it possible that this specialist leader of the Gandarmeria in Nis numbers so many people that it is impossible to determine exactly who was in Belgrade and who was, exactly, the face that apparently hit the late Rank Panic and another protester here? So it's obvious that the same ones who organized the riots at this rally are also organizing these, or sending us reports like this, so that we can be distracted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2316	You've been talking for four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2317	I'm done. I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2318	The word is "Paiche Alexander."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2319	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. My intention is not to obstruct the work of the Assembly, but to inform the public. Four days ago, in Leskovac, I had representatives of wartime military reservers who asked for an answer to two questions. The first question is when will the prime minister put their problem on the agenda? The second question is when will their war logs be paid. I'll remind you that there were 15,000 reserves from the Jablani County of Kosovo. Many of them have not returned to their homes. The people who strike in front of the government are mostly from Jablani County, from six municipalities of Jablani County, and are seeking their rights. They're looking for their rights because they don't want to be second-class citizens. In fact, representatives of the Toplic district received some compensation during the period when Boris Tadic was in the district's election campaign. However, I am sorry that the other military reserves were unable to exercise those rights. So I ask you to forward this request properly to the Prime Minister and the President of the State, and I hope you will give us a quality answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2320	Thank you. The word is Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2321	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if anyone thinks that by forming a commission, working group, by insignificant text on page 17, whose author we do not know, and by signing several police officials and calling it all a report, we will be deceived by the MPs and all the righteous people in Serbia, he was wrong. We have not yet received an answer to the question of who kidnapped and where Radovan Karadzic was held for several days, and you do not give any other answers through this report. It seems that Serbia, under your administration, has become a state without a response, and we are radicals of Professor Vojislav Seselj, the largest Serbian nationalist and the greatest respecter of all other peoples, only asking for an explanation of why you beat up participants in a peaceful protest, Serbian citizens and MPs according to your premeditated scenario. Why did you boys kill Ranko Panic? We are looking for answers to questions about who ordered and who directly used the rubber ammunition at a peaceful protest of the SRS, and this scandalous report, which today came before us, certainly hides it. If you think through this report you're sacrificing six cops and their families and you're taking responsibility off whoever's really responsible, who designed it, prepared and ordered police actions to turn a peaceful protest into chaos, and that's where you're wrong. I've got plenty of cops. Many of you know that the police on the street can't stop everyone, they can't search everyone's car, they can't write to everyone. I am absolutely certain that excessive use of force is strongly dictated and ordered. Are those who have much greater responsibility, not these six victims, above the law? We come to the conclusion that someone who pulled the strings on the side is responsible and wanted to create chaos, disorder and blood at all costs. Of course, it took place through the operational management headquarters activities, which co-ordinated police actions through video-bids, which was on the phone with someone from above who was actually giving orders. From the footage we own, everything indicates that the police led the action not against the perpetrators, but against the participants in the rally. I will also remind you that all the protests and myths of the SRS are peaceful, they are visited by meek people, who only want to live better and that their countrymen do not hunt Serbia as rabbits and deliver to false quasi-suds. These extreme groups mentioned in your report, remember, were not part of the protest, they were organised precisely by who was responsible for beating up citizens and MPs and innocent RankoPanic on that day. The only thing we're looking for is that someone is responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2322	The word is Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2323	Ladies and gentlemen, when this report is read, two of the three facts can be found. Here you can see why Ranko Panic was killed, how Ranko Panic was killed. Not only is there a third fact known - who killed Ranko Panic, because there are no names here. At least two more things are missing. The first is the responsibility of the one who ordered the beating, and the second is the responsibility of the minister. If, by chance, the Minister of the Interior of Japan, because of this situation, would at least have executed the harikiri. Of course, we don't expect Ivica Dacic to do this, but at least we expect her to resign. So, why was Ranko Panic killed? It is said this way – Panic wore black shoes on that day, blue jeans, blue jeans, a heavy shirt on the front of Ratko Mladic's emblem, cross sabers and inscription below the saber: "Hajduk to death". On the back of the shirt mentioned, the coat of arms - a two-headed eagle with a white crown, with four glasses, under which it says "Serbia". How did Ranko Panic get killed? It's called N.N. a person, who can be assumed that Ranko Panic, after several steps of a parallel walk towards the National Theatre, is likely to be in verbal contact with a police officer, who then hits him with his left leg in the body area. Let me remind you, the autopsy report says that Ranko Panic was killed by a police boot, a hit by a police boot in the stomach, causing a large intestine to crack; then 15 days later, he suffered and died in the hospital. It is said – after that, N.N. The person is moving a few steps away from a police officer, but he is approaching him again and giving him another kick with his foot, after which several others approach him, several police officers, where their performance can be clearly seen. It's all clear here, gentlemen. The police, of course, not all police, but some who have been instructed have committed a crime of murder against Ranko Panic. You can't wash Ranko Panic's blood with six police officers now, as suspended as it is. The responsibility goes to the very top of the interior ministry, to the very top of the government and to the president of Serbia, because the ends seem to have been pulled all the time from there. We demand that the police draw up a new, realistic, real report and discuss this report, and that the minister consider a moral act called resigning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2324	The word is Mrs Gordana Paunović-Molosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, or Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, sent a report to the working group on the established facts and circumstances under which the citizens and police officers were injured on July 29th 2008, in Belgrade, during a public meeting organised by the SRS. The Serbian Radical Party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, believes the report is missing, unclear, inaccurate, controversial and most of the selective. For what? I'll just have the parts of this report to comment on. It is said that the working group has concluded that the public meeting on the application movement has not been submitted in accordance with Article 6(2). The law on citizens' gathering. Then why did the Ministry of the Interior, in general, allow this meeting to take place? In the final report of the task force, in the finding at point 2, police officers were ordered by the minister, police directors and senior elders to act exclusively in accordance with the law and to protect all participants, especially journalists, MPs and all other citizens who do not show aggression towards police officers and facilities that are being provided. However, the report said that some MPs were injured and interviewed with them, and on MP and journalist Dusan Maric, in four or five sentences, was found to have been injured on July 29th 2008. The next one, Milos Djorelievski, is said to have – in a conversation with Djorelijski Miloš, a journalist from Beta, there was an understanding, and I still won't read how he was injured. Which is why no one has turned the phone or asked Dusan Maric how he's feeling right now, is he better, is he worse and how he got the injuries? These are all some of the findings quoted by the SRS parliamentary group as saying that the whole event was staged by a group or a party that wanted to send the citizens of Serbia a message that the SRS is a violent party. However, they failed to do so. Serbian citizens will continue to monitor the SRS's rally neatly and will come and visit the SRS's rally.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2326	Mr. Slobodan Vukovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I wondered if I should come out and say something at all, but when I read this report on the events at the rally, I had to take a call and say something, because I was a direct participant in that rally. As an SRS MP, I can tell you that for days before the rally, we did everything we could to prevent any incidents at that rally from happening. The moment the part of the rally ended, when the speakers spoke and it was heard that from the direction of the Macedonian street some disturbing sounds came, I, completely self-initiatively, without any orders, ran there, in the desire that, if, eventually, there would be an unkind event, I would try to prevent it and warn it. That's why I'm an eyewitness to something that's not in that report. Those who are not involved in this event will think it was like this – a policeman approaches a protester who is allegedly extramanic, etc., or a fan, then hits him with a stick, then moves away a little bit, then meets him again, and then hits him again. True, according to what was going on at that rally, about, from my corner, on the spot, it looks like this – the police were foolishly, organizedly chasing peaceful citizens from the direction of the Macedonian street and forced them to the central part where the rally was held. I'm an eyewitness, and there's nothing here in the report of it, that there's no young man, who I can't say is that Ranko Panic, at that intersection between Kolarceva and the Macedonian street, at the moment when there were no more than a dozen younger people on that plateau, one officer, who got away from the cordon, hit him with a stick, grabbed him with his hand, shot him down, dumped him several times, I repeat, dumped him several times, and then there were ten more, and at one point, he was kicking him out of every direction; ten police officers went to his feet. It's not an excessive use of force, it's a crime. What I saw, hundreds of people saw. We tried to help this man, but from all sides came more members of that gendarme. That young man was dragged down Kolarce's street, and they were still beating him up. That's got to be on tape. They show details of how they filmed Rank Panic, with all these details, eagles on their backs, swords, etc. This is something that had to be recorded, and I demand that those who fill out this report, and they will have to supplement it, find and show it to the public. Second, for days, a picture of a man, the people of Palilula, who had a heart attack in the rally. He's...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2328	I'd like to remind you that it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2329	But I have to, I haven't answered, which is this session, I've never answered. I'll call you back, 'cause I got something to say, I'm an eyewitness.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2330	The word has Mr Vladan Jeremic and then Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2331	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this report, presented by the MUP task force, after two days, as far as it goes, represents nothing but an attempt to avoid the essence, i.e. to avoid an answer to the only question that we have been asking for the 46th day, which is - who is the murderer, Ranko Panic. What contains this paper deals entirely with peripheral things, the accent is placed on hooligan fans, on the losses of police props, etc. It's just a story for a story. For two days now, since the report was delivered to me, as a people's messenger, I have been gathering strength to go to Rank's mother Smile and the wife of Mirjana. What can I say there? The report was probably read and probably seen as a great shame and humiliation. Of some N.N. persons, from how police action is organised, meetings, arrangements, there will be absolutely no way of finding the murderer and the commanders of the murder of Ranko Panic. Time's going by, and nothing's going on. Last Saturday was 40 days, and this report will bring back many more new wounds to the Ranko Panic family. Really, it's a shame. So the problem is not solved by the suspension of six members of the MUP. Not only will it be solved by someone, neither guilty nor due, going through the worst, the problem is that, despite the professional and technical possibilities, however, after this time, at this distance, clearly someone doesn't want to know the real facts about this tragic case. This someone is none other than the current regime, because what we in the SRS are pointing to is confirmed this time – Serbia under Boris Tadic is falling into dictatorship, and only in dictatorship is it possible for a participant to pay for a protest rally with his commitment to human life. So, the truth - who is the murderer of Ranko Panic? Show the minimum of human morality and responsibility to the family whose member was murdered, and only because he was a patriot...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2332	I remind you, three minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2333	... only half another sentence, because it was just, but also disappointed, as most Serbian citizens, this dictatorial government of Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2334	Avramovic Milan, after him, Sulejman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are trying to convince the MUP that the report delivered to the MPs is not a report, but a piece of 17-page paper, not thickly typed, which we wait 40 and a few days, where it doesn't say anything, or it writes what's already known. To convince citizens who cannot see and read this report, I will use only a few contradictions from it. On the 1st page, the minister says – the MUP will continue to work to identify the persons who committed crimes and violations during the public meeting and identify police officers who overstepped police powers. The beginning is to know that it will only be done, that it has not been done so far, and the proof that something has been tried to do is not enough. Another contradiction says -- by police officers for the city of Belgrade, who carried out the operational security of the public meeting, alongside SRS supporters, around 160 FK fans "Partizan", 120 -- FK "Red Star", 30 FK "Rad" fans and about 40 members of the Serbian People's Movement "1389". Also, part of DSS and NS supporters were spotted at the rally. I ask the question – how did the police count how many fans and what group? Did she go with the camera or the team leaders and count every fan? Maybe they didn't count me, I'm rooting for one of these clubs, but this report talks enough about it. Another thing that's very important. It is said this way - by the director of the operational headquarters, through radio devices, it has been repeatedly ordered by operational security on the ground to observe groups of fans and record their behaviour. Fans are recorded nonstop, tapes and tapes exist. When it comes to other people who were present at the SRS rally, there's no shooting. What proves contradiction is the following fact, that police adviser Dusan Puača has been informed by telephone that the organiser is being fenced by a group and that if they continue with the incidents, the police intervene and take action from their jurisdiction. Here's how the police intervened, says page 5, last paragraph. It is said this way - on the corner of the streets of Macedonia and Decanska, a tear gas concentration was cast on police officers. The question arises - who had tear gas other than the police?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2336	I remind you, it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2337	All right, I'll get back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2338	I ask Mr. Suleiman Spah to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2339	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been waiting for this report for a long time, and we knew it wouldn't be correct and it wouldn't be for the truth. My esteemed colleague, Veselinovic Milan, said that he has been in the SRS for 20 years and that there are many rallys across his back. I can also boast that I've been in the SRS for 21 years and I've had as many rallying on my back, I've even been an organizer of the rally on many occasions. The rally that was on July 29th was the most organized rally, until the moment someone purposely created that chaos and, of course, in that chaos, Ranko Panic was killed. Reading this report, I came to the conclusion that the report was made only to be obtained by this congregation, i.e. So the opposition doesn't, as you say, make obstructions. The report itself is such that the opposition, and in particular the SRS, who is a participant in that rally, who created and organised that rally, must in some way, be reported by the Rules of Procedure or not, and say that this report is wrong, is not what it should be. There's something else I wanted to say. I was at Ranko Panic's funeral. I saw the wrath of those thousands of people who came. Because of him, and because of all these people, because of his family, his children, his wife, his mother, you need to know the truth about how he died. This report does not prove it in any way. Believe me, we who are here will constantly influence you, especially the M.O.P. to find the culprit. What hurts me like a man is seeing in this report that six police officers have been suspended, while those who deliberately staged the chaos that occurred in Belgrade do not respond. Believe me, after us and after what's happening today, someone will have to write a better report and answer to the Serbian public.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2340	The word is Mr. Milan Nikolic, and let Mr. Slobodan Vukovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2341	Dear MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I am a participant in this protest rally, I have come with a group of sympathisers and members of the SRS from my municipality. We came to support Radovan Karadzic and to voice a protest over his arrest. We're not here to tear down Belgrade. We didn't come here to break through Belgrade, or fight with the police and die, on the contrary. This report greatly offends the dignity of our MPs, those of us who have asked the competent ministry to provide us with a report with analysis and concrete measures taken by responsible persons, and those responsible are well-known, except that this report has not appointed them. The report is abundant with a lot of data, facts, both insignificant and significant. However, there is no real one, who is responsible and who is the organiser of what was happening on the streets of Belgrade. It is indicative that the hooligan militia, rightly put, the hooligans, defending themselves from them, pushed towards the mass of peaceful and dignified participants together. What could have been expected here? Could it have been expected that the crowd would tear itself apart? The following report says that 19 people were detained, and 10 others were later brought in, and legal measures were taken against them. There's no record of what those faces said during the processing. Are those the faces that are members of the SRS? If they did, it would certainly be in this report. Therefore, these faces are not members of the SRS, not even sympathisers, but were organised into a rally to do what was done. That is why this report should be returned and asked by the MUP to deal with it, although it was time - two months, thereby bringing a report to us, MPs, who will, in particular, tell who is responsible and who is responsible for everything that happened that day at the rally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2342	Thank you. The word has Slobodan Vukovic, and let Stevanović Dragan be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2343	I'll try to pick up where I left off and where I was interrupted. I'd like to point out that the members of the Gandarmeria and the police, moving on to the central area where the rally was held, were running around in a senseless fashion and dissipating peaceful citizens, women, children, and they didn't choose who would arrive with those sticks, by the way, to kick their feet. Kicking your legs doesn't exist in the job description they're dealing with. Also, I want to say that in the media, which is in the hands of the yellow company, DS, and you know how much you stand for democracy, you've reduced what happened at the rally by selectively showing details from the rally. You stand up for it, gentlemen of the DS, G17 plus others in the coalition in power, to see the truth come out, that what you're trying to throw and move to the SRS painting in the right light and to see who the orders are. It was an obvious intention to challenge incidents at that rally and accuse the SRS of what happened. The SRS will insist on this and will not stand down until this report is correct, accurate, with culprits, names and last names. If the culprits are not found, so you know what, it is clear from this report that the police did what they did and that the outcome is the death of Ranko Panic. In that case, if they do not find out, the minister must resign, or all the authorities who have been following orders at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2344	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stevanović Dragan, and let Mijaljevic Sladjan be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam President, on page 1 of this document, which should be a report, Mr. First Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior and, I don't know, who does, says he wants to inform us that, based on this report, he has made a decision on suspension and initiating a disciplinary procedure against six police officers, he has banned using, not to read further, rubber bullets without the way the law provides, etc. If anyone in this Parliament and, in general, in Serbia, expected that these measures imposed by Mr. Minister would represent a satisfaction for what happened in Belgrade on 29th, or for what was defined and put into this report from its angle, then one can be said to be bold and irresponsible. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you seem quite unprepared for this assembly. As consultations progressed, you know best. I will remind you that you have taken the obligation to inform this most representative body in Serbia that the minister, and then it was in seven or ten days, will report to the Assembly on these events. That didn't happen then. It's been a month since then. The SRS then showed that it was also defined and that it is persistent to come to the truth and that all political, democratic and parliamentary means will be used. In that day we showed you that we can do this, but tomorrow we have shown that we are ready to agree and compromise, to contribute from different angles to certain agreements, texts and documents in this Assembly to be considered and adopted. Since then, I repeat, for almost a month, and this report, in this form, you have brought before us MPs the way it is. I didn't expect to see Mr Dacic anymore, but it seems to me that you have taken an unwarranted commitment to yourself at the time – that you will inform us about it. You're one of the people who's been traversing, or created the political path of the Dacic border. You could also recognize how much its gauges, quality and potential to do this report, that is to say, to deal with the problem Serbia has objectively in an adequate way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2346	I'd like to remind you that it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2347	I'll finish now. Since I'm not going to abuse a pay phone, if I have to, I'll get back to you, but it's distasteful to treat anyone's exit for this pay phone as an obstruction. If there's any need, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2348	Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević, then Ms. Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2349	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the presidency, we have come today to work on the second agenda, but we have been welcomed by a report that has caused, indeed, serious emotions in us, a report that, when, when we have looked at it, we have seen it, interpreted as very trendy, even cynical. That from a rally, or an event where such an excessive force was used, even with attempted murder, in the end, and murder, or the attempts that led to the death of one man, we get one such infancy report, which couldn't even convince children of five or six years old to what it says, it's really sad and ugly. Hitting one man with such a force to take his life, it's just amazing. It's barbarism and unlimited savagery. I've been dealing with martial arts for 30 years, and I've been getting punches and punches from very professional and competent people. Thank God I'm alive and well. You can imagine the strength that savage hit a 40-year-old man to crack his gut. So there's a certain brutality, which is inspired, most likely, on the outside. From who? I will remind you of a sentence said by the president of Serbia two or three days after the rally: "I commend the work of the police". And if it wasn't him or his glasses, the instigators, the police, this kind of crime, that sentence is saying enough that he took responsibility for everything they've done. It's very funny, sad and ugly. So that's where at least 50 officers applied or exceeded the force that belongs to them under the law, but people who commanded and approved must be held accountable for what they did. I remind you that your colorful coalition is constantly pushing for and saying that for some Europe, for some European integration, it is for some European laws. We hear calls for tolerance around here all the time. What we've experienced is that this report justifies the means of your tolerance! Trained cop, mauled, batted, tear gas and rubber bullet. Are those the means of tolerance? What does that look like?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2350	I'd like to remind you that it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2351	With you at the head of this country, we are far from Europe, as you can see from many other things. To conclude, to those whose tolerance rests on topuza, democracy smells like inhumane.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2352	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to inform you that the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration will be held at 2.30 in the Blue Salon immediately after the session of the Legislative Committee. Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2353	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, which regulates the relationship of the National Assembly to other institutions outside our country and regulates the status of MPs in certain international delegations. As you know, we who have been selected from our electoral lists and we Serbian radicals from the "SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj" list are participating in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I think it is my duty to introduce you, before the beginning of the regular session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because we represent the state of Serbia, this Parliament, that I have before me a resolution that, in the framework of the monitoring process, has been translated into several points, through the text that lies ahead of me, which will put the state of Serbia before the MPs next week, more precisely, on Thursday, to present, through monitoring reporters, in a certain way. I want to tell you that these are the alarming things written in the text of Resolution. Mr. Todorovic, Mrs. Radeta and my smallness, as representatives of the SRS within the Serbian delegation, will do everything possible to remove certain parameters and certain points of this resolution. Namely, those who are watching us, and these are the EU's even Council of Europe, which is an extended hand, those who have shown neither the will nor the willingness to do anything good for the Serbian people, on the contrary, through constant pressures, blackmail and, indeed, the great harm they have done to us all these years, and also the humiliating parliamentary process in our country, by always finding some who will blindly serve them, buy them and be their extended hand, are now asking us to accept something that we are currently fighting against, and what we have been pointing to since this morning, from the beginning of the session. They want us to change the Constitution, the Constitution of Serbia, which was introduced by the widest consensus last year, the Mitrovica Constitution to change, because the Council of Europe, or the monitoring group, believes that Serbia needs to be established so-called. An imperative mandate, which means that, institutionally, through the amended Constitution and laws, and not only that but also the law on local elections and local self-government, will open up a wide market of buying of MPs, which we now have through this tycoon co-operation of the outlawed group of SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2354	I'd like to remind you that it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2355	Not only that, but they make it clear... Look, it's not about the EU Council of Ministers. I will end up, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, although this is indeed something where I feel, above all, moral responsibility, because all colleagues must be familiar with what is waiting for us. They are asking us to meet absolutely everything, and in the legislative area, and everything they ask for, and especially to deliver Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic, which I believe will never happen and that the honorable General Mladic, who honorably defended Republika Srpska, knows what he should do. So, not only that, but the tax laws we need to pass are tax-listed. What's he actually saying? It says that the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia does not decide anything. If you think we have some high democratic potential, you're wrong, because we don't do our own agenda. A few laws that are in tomorrow's session have just come out of this resolution, right from the beginning to the end, written in a letter as they should look, further and further, all on the way so-called. European integration, which, of course, will never happen. It's a colorful lie, it's a hoax. They, in the right sense, treat our people, and, above all, treat the Messengers as subjects. We Serbian radicals don't want to be. We will, as responsible people, because the people sent us to the National Assembly to protect the interests and the workers, and the peasants, and the pensioners, and those who are in the highest positions in some of the institutions in the country, to say that we do not want to. At least through those amendments, we will try to raise our voice and defend Serbia's dignity. Here, I'll finish the next one. Contrary to this humiliating resolution, after monitoring, we want, as a delegation, to support a convention that will protect the care of old Serbian traditions and skills that had Serbian craftsmen. After all, Professor Rakic and a group of students from the Faculty of Law, during the time we chaired the Council of Europe, showed in the best possible way what a real face and image of a decent Serbia is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2356	Thank you. I'm setting a break by 3:30. I'm asking the heads of parliament to be with me at 3:15 on a short deal. At half past four, we continue our work. [[After break, 15.50]] I remind you, according to Article 160(3), Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group of SRS – one hour, 10 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; MP group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group "Forward Serbia" – 22 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 15 minutes and 36 seconds; MP group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Send group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. (From the O.R.: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) I would like to inform you that we will be working on this agenda point until the end of the period. Here you go. Just to let you know that the LDP representative at this point is a Free Maras. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Verica Radeta. These were practical notices, you got your word right away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I assume you know that the MP in the Rules of Procedure gets his word as soon as he asks. Do not try not to notice that SRS MPs appear in the Rules of Procedure. I'm reporting from Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, as well as all the MPs of the Assembly's majority, that the work of this Parliament has been violated, that the reputation of the Serbian Parliament has been violated, and that we expect for some time that you will react, but not by arlaucing, but by looking at the Constitution, Article 102, paragraph 2. And, may I remind you, in the National Assembly, only those MPs elected in the parliamentary elections can be. We had a list, i.e. 78 MPs elected from the SRS list - Dr Vojislav Seselj, whose carrier is the first on the list – Dr Vojislav Seselj. Meanwhile, a group of MPs, who today are not MPs, are citizens, you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, have allowed them to sit here in benches, even if they participate in the debate, instead of, if you want to watch them, sending them up to the gallery, as interested citizens, to learn something about parliamentaryism. This is one of the biggest crimes, which is the crime of ending the electoral will of citizens, the crime of stealing the mandate. In some better times, there was a general consensus in this parliament not to allow the mandates to be traded, that the mandates belonged to that party, or that political group that won them in the elections. You are obviously forgetting this practice, forgetting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and allowing non-democratic principles to continue here, such as yours, the voting from Bodrum, and selling the mandates to the foreigners of Bogoljub Karic, who did not participate at all in the elections, so you have now allowed 19 mandates of the SRS MPs to take some secises, thieves, criminals, immoral, unholy people, because if they were not, they would not have a face to sit here and watch us...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2358	I'd like to remind you that it's been three minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2359	... And to listen to what we are going to say to them today and in the future, until you gentlemen first and foremost, you 'yellow', whose president participated in the failed attempt to crack in the SRS and take over the mandate, don't take your mind and realize that 78 mandates belong exclusively to the SRS, whose president is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2360	The word is made by Miss Natasa Jovanovic, after which, Aleksandra Jankovic. I'd just like to give an explanation about the previous exposure. To the MP who wants to talk about the breach of this Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly gives his word after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. In particular, I was that speaker and the moment I finished my presentation, I gave you my word, Mrs. Radeta. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2361	Madam President, I know you mean parliamentary practice and multiparty Serbia, practically, from the moment the first multiparty elections were held in 1990. Knowing you for many years, I can't help but say that you were always a person representing democratic rights and principles, and especially at the time when you from the SPS felt the impact of the then-dosing regime, when a handful was instructed at the time of the murder of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague casamat, led by Branislav Ivkovic, made some phantom parliamentary group here. I must remind you of a time when, first of all, the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, defended the Constitution and the democratic order of this country, every time that unfortunate Branislav Ivkovic came out, so paradely, after he buttoned one or the other button, and fixed his tie. It reminds me of an unidentified man who appeared here from this morning; the same manner, the same suits, the same expensive things, the same elitism, suddenly, with those people who, in my opinion in Šumadia, in Kragujevac, had nothing to eat by yesterday. Gentlemen, that may be funny to you, but I will direct you to read a special edition of the "Great Serbia" list. Unlike you from DS, we're not hiding anything. We are completely open people, open to our members, who some try to deceive these days, blackmail them, and thus commit crimes, especially the pressure they put on the SRS committees. I see how they got into Kragujevac, barefoot. The City Election Commission met nicely yesterday, decided unanimously to take away the mandates that the party received on our election list and to assign to honest and honest people, who have been followers of the ideas and programmes we have been fostering in Serbia for the past 18 years. I understand, you are members of a party that has such ideologies, you call for pre-war Democrats, you cultivate that tradition, but I don't understand how you observe, and among you there are people of reputation, from professions, people who change overnight, change their ideology, and they're enormously rich in the past few years, and not by accident, but when the party leader is in prison. Then you wonder to us, who honestly, by the will of the Serbian citizens, have earned these mandates in the elections, and what, by sticking to the letters of the Constitution and the law, we are looking for. Mrs. Kolundjia, I don't understand you, you are for me a full and legitimate representative of the government and of the DS and I will always speak to you, regardless of what we are on opposite sides in ideological terms and that we are an opposition to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2362	I'd like to remind you that it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2363	Imagine if now a handful were to be instructed around you and – pay, Beko, Miskovic, I don't know who, tycoon of Serbia, and a group appears and says – we are not yours anymore, we are now an advanced democratic party. How would you react? Do you know that famous saying that the beating has two ends? It's impossible for you to observe things like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2364	I warn you, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2365	Next to you is one of the people who says to themselves that the expert of constitutional law, Bosko Ristic, is. Comrade Ristic, come out and tell us why you are not protecting the Constitution, and why are you acting like this when it comes to stealing the electoral will of citizens, stealing the SRS' parliamentary mandates? You were also a member of RIK. Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, don't call me again. It is offensive to the citizens of Serbia. You just read that the SRS doesn't have 98.30 minutes, as far as we're concerned, according to the plan of the Rules of Procedure, according to which time is being deployed. You will be led by some people who are falsely represented, one of them, who have committed crimes (it was not for them to leave their grandfather in the amannet, to carry the parliamentary mandates as they wish), to allow them to go out for the assembly booth, and that during that time, honorable people, Serbian radicals and citizens who voted for us are looking at it in direct transmission. Mrs. Kolundjia, it can't do that. Tell whoever instructed him to be his right hand, or how he treats him, and the question is the day when he will be released down the water, tell Boris Tadic that he has been deceived and that we Serbian radicals are indeed tough nuts and a big bite. We will protect the citizens' electoral will to the end and believe that we will not give in. Our mandates must be returned to the SRS and entered into normal democratic parliamentary flows in Serbia. Without it, it's over. Then you'll all step on the Constitution, throw it in the mud, do whatever you want, play with the fate of the people. It must end in our favor, because it is what the people wanted, so the citizens decided in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2366	Actually, a few questions were asked here. As for confirming the term of office, you know that we are indeed confirming them, but we are neither taking away nor giving mandates. This is what other institutions and institutes, i.e. the Committee, RIK and courts, do. The moment any proposal relating to the confiscation or confirmation of the term of office arrives in the Assembly, I will put it on the agenda. I don't have another option. As far as time goes, Article 94 says that the total time of debate is in principle for the parliamentary groups for five hours, and that the time set out in Article 1 is being allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs who make up the parliamentary groups. So both time and attitude to mandates are in line with the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have the word, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2367	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. As well as my colleague, Pejcic, who spoke about it in the morning part of the exhibition, I was asked by representatives of the 1999 Association of Fighters from Kosovo and Metohija to inform you that these people have been sitting on the hunger strike for the eighth day before the Serbian government. There's a lot more of them today. It's not just the fighters, it's the wounded and the parents. So all the people who participated in these wars, which we allegedly didn't lead and who remain invisible to most of the government. So Prime Minister Cvetkovic, while serving as finance minister in the government of Prime Minister Kostunica, promised the same people he would receive compensation. But what is it about a human being that leads him to no longer recognize these people? It's probably an answer - a function. Since the prime minister's office, he has not honored these people to look at them, nor to notice their presence, but in his comfortable and well-heated car passes by 'like a Turkish cemetery', they say. It is very unusual for the prime minister of a pro-European government to react in this way, as long as pro-European-oriented people know very well that Europe protects, even, stray dogs. Eight days ahead of the government, some dogs lying on the sidewalk would probably do something about it. These people remain completely invisible. You've got a list of their demands. They are not looking for anything but to be respected as are some other fighters, who are likely to be campaigned for because they voted in favour of the forces of this "semaphor coalition". They simply seek the rule of law and equality for all. Meanwhile, on August 14th, there were about 3,000 people outside the government, duty minister Rasim Ljajic received representatives from these fighters in his apartment and promised to do something about it. So far, it has only been taken to form a commission that will draft a law on the financing of fighters. So they didn't get the money, they could eat that paper. Otherwise, the deadline to form, to make that bill, is six weeks. Obviously everything's stalling. What is very important is that the legal deadline and this case, practically, become obsolete on 24 March 2009. You're a colleague, you have psychiatric experience, you're primarily a doctor, and you probably know the consequences of hunger strikes. Among these seven strikers are people who have been wounded several times, who are not the first to try to achieve their rights somehow. I suppose the elemental human empathy would require us to do something for these people. We're comfortable here in these chairs, air-conditioned, we don't notice that the rain is out there.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2368	I'd like to remind you that it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2369	These people are in conditions that are not suitable for the animal world. Since they are obviously invisible, they asked me to give you one shirt, because if you, as another person of importance in Serbia, bring that shirt, maybe Prime Minister Cvetkovic will have more respect for their demands, and maybe Tadic, when he comes from New York, will look at these people or, eventually, will whisper to his godmother Sutanovac to deal with the fighters. If your shirt, by any chance, is gonna be a big problem, because they started with XL T-shirts, and they ended with S. I hope this one suits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2370	Mr. Nenad Constantinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2371	Dear President, I point to a breach of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which says the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. The agenda has begun, the first point is open. For the sake of the public, who probably can't understand what we've been discussing here all day, I'm going to repeat that the first item of the agenda is the motion for a decision on the termination of functions and the election of members of the NBS Council. Instead, SRS MPs are discussing their problems, problems within the SRS, and we have been listening to various excuses all day about what's in the middle, which is the legacy of the SRS. This is obviously about fighting inside the SRS. That was explained to us by Radet and MP Natasa Jovanovic, that they are interested in whether the Serbian Parliament will take away someone's mandate or not. The Serbian Parliament can't take away anyone's mandates. The mandates of the MPs in this country are free. They can trust them, possibly, if they want, to some political party. No resignation, as the president said, came to the Serbian Parliament. Serbia's assembly cannot allow anyone who is an MP to put on a balcony and make him look off the balcony. I also told you on the Administrative Board and asked you not to threaten any MPs. All MPs are equal, all 250, all of them have the same rights and you cannot banish anyone to the balcony and pressure the ruling majority to break the Constitution, break the law and take away a mandate. The other thing we discuss all the time, and it doesn't appear in the media. The SRS is seeking certain positions on the boards because there are no more 78 MPs, there are 18-19 fewer and there must be changes in committees. The SRS can't have as many board presidents as she had before. I don't think it's a question of anyone in this room. We can't arbitration who's going to belong to any of the boards. That will be decided by the Assembly, when that point comes to the agenda of the assembly. We can't decide who's going to be the chairman of which committee – that's what every committee decides for itself. So I ask you to let us get to the point of the agenda that will apply to the committees, and when some resignations come to the Assembly, if any MP ever comes and wishes to resign, we will discuss it. One more thing is not clear to me, and that is - how did we forget this report so quickly from this morning?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2372	I'm warning you because of the time you've exceeded. Take care of it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2373	We heard about the police report all morning, and there's no more word on the police report. You have now shown what is important to you – these are the functions of the committees, the seats of the committee president and the violent withdrawal of the mandate to individual MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2374	He has the word Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2375	Well, the cards are finally starting to come out on the table. Now we don't need to talk anymore. That's completely obvious now. As far as we're concerned, we didn't have any dilemma. We're not discussing any problems within the party. We don't have any problems inside the party. I know you wanted us to have them, but we don't. But we won't let you act this "principle" way. I will remind you that this is the way you have always used some you could use and abuse, by Banet Ivkovic, so before that, MP Vuk Obradovic, in turn Velimir Ilic. Whenever you could, you were principled and claimed that the term of office belonged to the MP. Whenever there was a problem with your MPs, you resigned, ran to the office, who's going to take it sooner, whether you're resigning or an MP to withdraw it, so don't make us believe that. As far as the SRS is concerned, we're looking for functions or seats on boards, no, we're not. We are not looking for any more, none less, but as much as we belong – seven seats of the chairman of the board and seven seats of the vice president of the board. We have had a correct agreement since 2003 on how board seats have been deployed. That was until this moment, when you have the part that, as soon as you need it, will return the favor. Now you're trying to transfer that ball to the entire opposition, first of all, to show it as a problem inside the SRS. No, we're only looking for what was principled in the previous distribution, and nothing else. We don't have any chance of making you do that. It's a matter of your will, whether you will or will not respect those principles. You won't, well, you have most of it and it's no problem. On each board you have a majority and, as far as I'm concerned, all 18 can be the chairman of the board – we will not say a single word. But we won't even let you determine who's going to be president of which board. Because, you know well, you and everyone else who's been in the talks so far, how the committees have divided. The Management Board belonged to the strongest political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2376	It's been three minutes of your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2377	I'm done. You're asking to vote on the Administrative Board. There's no problem, vote on all committees. At all, it is not a problem, vote and how the members of the Administrative Board will vote, so it will be, and it is no problem at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2378	There's Mrs. Hope Kolundji's word before you, so you'll get it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2379	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, unfortunately, are once again the victim of solving a problem that has nothing to do with this assembly. Exorcising someone's cap and clearing up some internal relations, which have nothing to do with the Assembly and the agenda, and in particular, it has nothing to do with what the interests of Serbian citizens are, which is – that this assembly adopts laws that are very important for achieving the goal – putting on the white Schengen list. So it's about asking us to get involved in a divorce case and to ensure for one side that everything that has been acquired in that marriage belongs to us. We don't want to do it, we don't want to get involved in it. For us, it's an internal thing. For us, the fact that there is another parliamentary group in this House and, as we have respected each parliamentary group, we respect the fact that there is another parliamentary group, that the number of MPs in the SRS is now smaller than it was and that there was a basic principle on which we negotiated when it comes to committees. I'll do it again. We can't move around the agenda today because the SRS has decided to show its own victory over the other part of the radical party, by taking what they claim belongs to them. To explain how we've come to all the arrangements, I'll say the following. At a meeting of the heads of parliament clubs, we agreed on how much, on average, the chairman of the board gives opposition, how many positions and what committees the presidents are for, and what committees the opposition is for. Within the opposition, they agreed on who, from which parties, would lead the committee, and within the ruling coalition, who, from which party, would lead the committee. Now they're asking us for radicals, all day long they won't let us move in the agenda, take the committees they want, claiming it belongs to them. So, we don't argue that these committees belong to the opposition, but we don't agree to being someone who's going to arbitration. So we offered to reach an agreement – you won't reach an agreement. We offered you a solution for each other. You will not find it. We told you, come on, then, go to the board, and let the Committee decide. You can't ask us to make a decision that we've never interfered with before and that's why you block the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2380	He has the word Mr. Sasa Dujovic, then Mr. Dusan Masic. Sasha, won't you? He has the word Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2381	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Rules of Procedure, Rule 101. He's been mentioned here on several occasions, in various contexts, the SPS. After trying to start a debate on the agenda points that the heads of parliament's groups agreed last week that they were indisputable, that we could, calm souls, discuss them and vote them the way MPs wanted, we finally came up with a clear situation to figure out what the background of this whole story was. This morning it was the Ministry of the Interior's report, then the differences and nuanced radical policy between the two options that have now been considered, and now, in the end, we have received final confirmation from the representatives of the SRS what is, in fact, the theme of this whole day and what this dizziness means, first of all, the citizens of Serbia. Of course, as representatives of the parliamentary majority, it is in the interest that we have one reasoned, strong, constructive opposition, which will help us to lead this Parliament, namely, by leading the state, we contribute to the state's development and move forward. However, we have come to the situation that because there is an obvious problem, which, in some's view, can only be solved in the elections, now, I guess, we should discuss, because of the conflict in the SRS, the elections to determine who's right, who's going to get more, who's going to get the mandates. The parliamentary majority has never interfered, nor will it interfere with what is principle, and the principle is that, when we agree on quotas for the presidents of certain committees in the Assembly, we from the parliamentary majority, neither personally nor in the party, are involved in the elections agreed by the opposition. On that principle, we insist and therefore do not want to arbitration in what is called the conflict, which does not give them silence, but is already, apparently, present. In any case, we expect, regardless of what we all know here, that this is how it works, that the citizens of us hear what is, in fact, the background of this problem, that the problems are neither rallying, nor the accident that happened at the rally, that the problems are not some other nature, but are used and misused these topics in order to...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2382	Please, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2383	I'm sorry, just ten more seconds. ... in order to get up here who's right from those two SRS options. It's not our problem that you don't have that blank resignation. You are, however, one serious political party and, since you have always insisted on it, it is your problem and don't distract us, don't lose... Thieves, simply, do not establish the congregation, but there are organs involved. If you want, we can resolve this issue in the Committee, but I think it's much better to agree on what is currently evident in a correct, democratic way, in meetings of the heads of parliament. We certainly won't call the election to determine which option in the SRS is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2384	Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is probably no one in this room who has not faced in his practice that the court rejects an act, an appeal, on the grounds that the appeal has been lodged after the expiry of the time provided for by law. Today, the Smederev District Court rejected a complaint, explaining that it was filed before the time. What's this about? As an authorised representative of the SRS, on 16 September, at the Smederev City Assembly, I handed over 14 SRS committees' resignations, which in the meantime formed a committee club, 'Forward Serbia'. The resignations were court-sanctioned. In addition to the resignations, I have attached certified powers to which the committees authorise the SRS to activate those resignations without their knowledge and consent and I have attached judicially certified contracts between the SRS and the committees, to whom they have their own contracts, to entrust their parliamentary mandates to the SRS. So I handed it over on Tuesday, September 16th. I've requested that, in accordance with Article 47. The law on local elections, the Smedereva City Assembly and mandates is restored to the SRS. Under the Law on Local Elections, Article 46, the Smedereva City Assembly was required to decide at the first next session on the termination of the mandate and the allocation of the mandate to the new SRS committees. The first session of the Smedereva City Assembly was held on Friday. The session did not discuss a proposal submitted by the SRS, as explained by the assembly majority, that the proposal was submitted three days before the assembly's meeting, and according to the Smederjev City Assembly's Rules of Procedure, the proposal had to be sent four days before the session. First and foremost, the Law on Local Elections is older than the rules, than the Rules of Procedure of any local self-government. That's the first one. Secondly, the Rules of Procedure of the City of Smederev Assembly were violated. The Rules of Procedure clearly state that proposals relating to appointment, resolution and the like may be submitted no later than 48 hours before the session is held. I delivered this proposal 70 hours before the session. In line with Article 49 of the Law on Local Elections, on Saturday, the day after the Smedereva City Assembly failed to decide on our application, we filed a complaint with the District Court. The complaint arrived at the District Court on Monday morning. The county court had to make a decision by Wednesday at 14 o'clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2386	I remind you, you're out of time. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2387	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't think there's a greater moral downturn in politics than when someone who represents himself as a modern-right politician is being defended by MPs of the ruling coalition who are members of the Socialist International. This isn't about SRS MPs talking about some internal party problem. The SRS has resolved all issues concerning the former deputy president of the SRS and the MPs who moved in with him in their party bodies. And we don't have any more party problems. This is about questioning the basic principles of democracy and parliamentaryism. For Serbia's public, I have a few facts to make. I think that these facts will be agreed by the ruling coalition and MPs of the opposition. At the first constitutional session of the National Assembly of Serbia, we have verified the mandates of 250 MPs in the new assembly. All MPs received the RIK report on the May 11th elections, and the report lists the names of all MPs, members of certain political parties participating in the elections. I did not find in the RIK report, perhaps I did not read the report in detail enough, that some "Advanced Party", "Progress Serbia" was participating in the May 11th elections, or what the group is now called. It has been unrecorded in a democratic world that any parliament finds a parliamentary group that did not have its own political party at the time of the elections. It is truly abnormal in a political sense that the first members of one new political party, the parties in the establishment, should be the MPs of another party that participated in the elections. So, we meet with a whole series of paradoxes, which, of course, we expect the answer too, and the MPs, as well as the citizens of Serbia. At a session of the Administrative Committee held on Monday, MPs of the ruling coalition, first of all, MPs from the DS, tried, in an unknowing way, to be the lawyers of this self-called leader of some new "Advanced Parties". Once again, something that we've seen in history has been shown. In the history of Serbian parliamentaryism, at the end of the 19th century, there was indeed a 'progress party', but it was the court party of King Milan. This new Progressive Party, which is now formed in a completely illegal and unconstitutional manner, is Boris Tadic's court party, so that history, unfortunately, repeats itself. This is about the SRS' mandates being stolen. The RIK report says the SRS won 78 seats. The election list was called the Serbian Radical Party -- Dr Vojislav Seselj. In the May 11th elections, Serbian citizens decided to assign 78 seats to the election list. The Serbian Radical Party is today seeking no one else's mandates, we are not asking you to give us mandates won by DS or SPS or DSS, but by mandates we won in a completely legal manner on 11 May.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2388	The word is Goran Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, reporting on the basis of an article. 198nd and 226th. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, to ask Mr. Minister for Local Self-Government Milan Markovic a parliamentary question. The 4th regular session of the Assembly of the Municipality of Trstenik was held in Trstenik yesterday, 24 September, where...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2390	You can't ask a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2391	I appeal to Article 226 - MPs, who have the right to seek an explanation for what happened at the session yesterday. Namely, the 4th extraordinary session began without the adoption of the minutes from the previous, 3rd session. We asked for that record to be adopted, otherwise decisions would be invalid. The problem is that at the first session, a letter was sent to the Ministry of Local Self-Government, and it was addressed by parliamentary groups of the Democratic Party, G17 plus and "Our Home of Serbia" Radovan Radovic, as the municipal councils allegedly did not receive the Rules of Procedure and the Statute of the Municipality, and the real reason is that most of the groups of SRS, DSS, NS, SPO and SPS won the first session. Meanwhile, there was a change of circumstances, so in the Silver Lake, organized by a minister from the government of Mr. Cvetkovic, there was a meeting, a gathering, I don't even know what happened, and suddenly the SPS gentlemen changed their minds and left the coalition, they founded a new one, so yesterday they revoted this coalition and founded a new municipal government. The problem is that this session was held illegally without the adoption of the minutes from the previous one. We are now sending Mr Milan Markovic the question whether the first session is illegal, where we had the majority, and they claimed that this Rules of Procedure and the statutes of the municipality were violated? In this context, we are looking for an answer to this question, because if they were expedient from the Ministry of Local Self-Government and answered them in a few days, we are asking them to be so expedient and now and to answer whether decisions from yesterday's session can be legal and no minutes have been adopted, or Article 71 has been broken. The Statute of the Municipality, under which the session of the Assembly of the Municipality cannot begin unless the minutes of the previous session are adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2392	It will be forwarded to the Resoring Ministry. The word was answered by the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2393	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you obviously read the latest number of "Great Serbia", the stenograms from the Central Country Administration, and you can't take it anymore, you had to react, and that, I must tell you, is very inappropriate. The SRS MPs today discussed in the afternoon a report by a commission formed in the MUP, which was to determine the circumstances of the injury and death of the late Ranko Panic. None of you thought of taking part in the debate when we talked about it. Now that we have launched another topic, which is interesting not only for the SRS, but for the entire Parliament and for all citizens of Serbia, who must have security when they go to the elections, that they know who they are voting for and who they will belong to in the mandates they have defined in their vote. You say now, Mrs. Kolundzija, and Mr. Konstantinovic, that we have been discussing the problem of the SRS all day since this morning. So you think the death of the late Rank Panic is the problem of the SRS. It's a shame, gentlemen, to think so, and it's especially a shame to say it in public. While we discussed this today, you inappropriately threw away, but since it was such a subject, we didn't want any way to hurt the family of the late Ranko Panic, we didn't pay attention to your throws. You've been bored, you haven't been discussed. There are now some who have reported themselves, probably frightened by the formation of a new parliamentary group in Parliament. Of course, we know who is the idea creator of what was tried in the SRS, which is Boris Tadic's failed coup. It's beautifully painted and written here. Those who have felt called, likely, think that, perhaps, Boris Tadic has done it to replace some; now it is a problem that you have to think about. That's why it would be wiser to side with the law, to side with the Constitution. We're not inviting anyone to side with the SRS. With us are citizens of Serbia, with us is the Constitution, with us are laws. The district courts have already made decisions in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution. You'd better all stick to the Constitution and the law and not move the ball to someone else's yard.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2394	Marko Milenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I don't know, really, which would define the most precise report of the Interior Ministry's working group on the facts and circumstances under which the people and members of the police service were injured, on 29 July 2008, in Belgrade, during a public meeting organised by the SRS, as you called this report. In the report, you state all the consequences of the police use of excessive force due to orders from the first Deputy Prime Minister, or Prime Minister, or the President of the Republic, you should tell us whose orders, as well as the clashes of police and extreme groups, not the participant of the protest, but certainly do not determine the circumstances and facts that led to the beating of citizens and the death of Ranko Panic. If we analyze the title and text that follows on page 17, we come to the conclusion that the theme has been missed. The theme has been missed, and the appropriate title would be – The N.N. Working Group's Status. persons and material damage identified. If you had put on a title like this, we wouldn't even be reading the text, we wouldn't be dealing with it right now, and we'd be waiting patiently for a real report, no matter how late you are with him. Like this, you deceive us, you deceive the public, the balance tragic, one participant in a peaceful protest murdered. Is that democracy for which the Democratic Party came to power in 2000? Did it all lead to the level of beating and killing of citizens? Is this the democracy that you will bring us into the EU? Was that, perhaps, a democratic beating and killing of your own people? What after all this and a report like this, where the responsible remain protected, and what can the citizens of the streets expect? Security and security certainly don't. Should all inexperiences be killed to lead us into the EU? Be assured that the wish of the SRS MPs is certainly not to obstruct, but to make you do better, more responsible, and, for starters, an adequate report on the unfavorable events of July 29th would be your good move on that path.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2396	I would ask, in accordance with Article 100, that the MP shall indicate which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his opinion, is violated. If he quotes it, it doesn't go into time. So let's remind the article 100, since obviously, today we all use this form to express our position. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2397	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not, of course, answer any call that comes from our political rivals. Sometimes I just have to warn you that we did not do this to weaken a party, but to strengthen Serbia and that it is our only wish that Serbia progresses and that we participate. We could no longer look at the sidelines and count our wages and our travel expenses. We really wanted to take Serbia forward and, you will see, very soon we will be in a position to decide after the election. You're forgetting one other thing. These complaints about how many councilmen have passed, only talk about how powerful the Serbian Progressive Party is. The courts may take their mandates, but they are people who are not afraid to say at all – we go where is better, even if they take our mandates. Think about it. It's not the mandate of the SRS, it's not the mandate of the DS, it's the mandate of a man. The Constitution knows the MP, the law knows the councilman, they're people. All those names were on election lists. The people watched who was on those lists, so you shouldn't insult anyone who wasn't with you anymore and who might not be an MP or a councilman. You're fighting for the fact that, like us, you don't have a blank resignation. It's best that you don't be slaves to anyone, that others don't decide whether you're MPs or councilmen, if that's what you've already fought for. That's one thing. Second, do not forget another provision of the Law, which you do not speak much of. No one can force you to sign a blank resignation to a term you haven't received yet. You all signed blank resignations as a condition for your name to appear before the Electoral Commission. The law says only a councilman can resign, not a candidate for a councilman, and you forget it. You signed your resignations as committee candidates, as candidates for MPs. As far as we're concerned, express your dissatisfaction, it's not easy, I understand. I don't want to encourage you to have more MPs in our ranks, and at least for 10 more, I regret that they are not with us, and you know very well who they are. We'll continue this way. It didn't go on like this, and look at the little effects of what you're doing these days. Our main rival will be Boris Tadic. We'll take turns in power, us and them, and you guys watch where you're gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2398	The word is Mr. Toolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2399	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, as an SRS MP who has been deceived and deceived by Tomislav Nikolic to cross...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2400	Will you just say which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2401	Article 226. ... To approach Parliament Club Forward, Serbia, and it is unequivocally clear that the Parliament Club has the support of the "yellow company", you have confirmed this for a short time with your presentations, I think it is absolutely clear now to all Serbian radicals and citizens of Serbia what Tomislav Nikolic wanted to do. He wanted to rip up and tear up the SRS, which he couldn't, and he's not gonna make it. Any real Serbian radical would restore the mandate to the party, because it is fair, moral and dignified. Tomislav Nikolic says that every MP is the owner of the mandate, and he has taught us the opposite and claimed that no one owns the mandate, neither he nor other SRS officials, regardless of the function they hold and which they have in the SRS. Regardless of political commitment or current non-determination and thinking, the secretary general of the SRS also showed it when he returned his mandate to the party. All this stuff they're trying to represent to the public right now, it's just not true. They go from town to town, from village to village, and lobby, trying to fool members of the SRS. Just one piece of information for the environment I come from, and that's the Odjaks municipality. No member of the SRS has approached the new parliamentary club, nor will they approach, as 45% of the vote won in the SRS municipality. It is proof that people, above all, are honest and honest and that is why I went to the centre of the party and returned the mandate to the party, as appropriate, regardless of the consequences. I'm happy for the citizens of the community I come from, for the results we've won, but I have no problem going back to the bar and working on the interest of the SRS. Everything that's been brought out here today isn't true. The real truth will come out, and I would ask my former colleagues from the SRS, because I know that there's radical blood flowing in their veins, so they can return the mandate to the foreigners, because, above all, it's fair and fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2402	You're out of time, please bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2403	The people will know that they appreciate it, and this way they will only punish them for the actions they have done.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2404	Mr. Mirko Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. We've heard here that there's a lot of lawyers, a lot of wooden lawyers, whether self-invited or ordered, I don't know, so I'm going to ask one practical question, primarily, Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, and then to the authorities, which I'm asking for a clear and precise answer, just as my question will be clear, and that's next. If it were to happen that one of the MPs of the newly formed parliamentary club, in which I do not believe, return the mandate, or some of the reasons that the law provides for the termination of the term of office, from which list would be filled in? I want you to answer that question for me. I'm an expert lawyer, but I'd like you to answer that question, which list would fill that place out. I can tell you, this whole thing around you and with you reminds me of that story about the dot. You know that strip wheel, with those steamers, so that top steamer is always up in the sun, always sunlit, and you seem to prefer that you are right now, right now. But, gentlemen, that wheel is turning. The one who was in the sun, he's in the mud tomorrow. You're slowly approaching your mud, and we've freed ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2406	Thank you. Mr. Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2407	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, I am advocating Article 103. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I remind all MPs and presidents that MPs are obliged to speak on the agenda of this session. I think it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia that MPs speak about the subject on the agenda. I must also remind all those who have misused this pay phone, and I want the President of the National Assembly to use its powers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and bring this assembly into office. I remind you of the topics on the agenda. First of all, we have 70 requirements for the resolution of legal holders who have met the pension conditions and who for 2 years receive the salary paid by the country's taxpayers, which is millions of dollars. Dozens of them receive it every month, and here we are dealing with topics that are purely internal issues. In addition to some wanting to avoid the fact that this is an intra-party calculation, this is where Serbia is paying for this intra-party calculation. Leave your differences for your local committees. Serbia's citizens will not count your members, where they pass through the night, with pressures or with a fight, or some other party holding their mandates by force. We've heard here that you're calling for the decisions of the district courts that have made these or those views regarding the parliamentary mandates. If the parliamentary mandates are controversial, you can protect them in the same way as you protect the parliamentary mandates in local self-governments, but this is no place in front of the National Assembly. So I urge all of you to return to the agenda topic, because the agenda theme is laws that are very important for the quality of life of Serbian citizens. It is a prerequisite for the release of Serbian citizens from the obligation to obtain visas, so that they can move freely throughout Europe and the world. Also, Serbian citizens have the right to protect their civil rights in the most qualitative way possible, for the judiciary to be free, independent and free of those who have not worked for 2 years and receive more than 100,000 dinars of wages in courts and prosecutors in Serbia, although requests for their resolution stand. So make Serbian citizens live better, make courts and prosecutors more efficient, quality, and no longer impose on taxpayers and these citizens who bear the burden of transition. Do not let the MPs of the National Assembly make life more difficult for them; we are there to solve their problems and to give them a better and better life. So I urge the President of the Assembly to bring this work into session on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2408	I thank and ask the MPs to help me to suggest Mr. Ristic, indeed, we are together in realisation. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2409	The Honorable Presidency, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, above all, I address you, on the agenda of today's session of the Serbian Parliament, is the proposal for a decision to suspend the role and elect members of the NBS council. I understand that we only had to get to this part of the agenda, so we can find out that you from the SRS have run for the worst people on the parliamentary list, that you have run for Serbian president for traitor and tycoon servant, but we will not participate in your divorce case. I'm sorry that the radical 'Titanic' was sore and that you are now sitting in lifeboats, lurking in your freezing dream, but, Mr. Todorovic, please behave, sit in the Serbian Parliament. If you don't respect me, respect this Serbian coat of arms. That coat of arms got people killed. So the citizens of Serbia, the DS and the coalition for European Serbia will get the strength to bring this agenda to an end. A new session awaits us to discuss the personal data protection law, the law on the protection of the state border. I know some people aren't the sacred state border, and that's why they're doing this. We're going to discuss the foreign law, the law of responsibility, and all for the reason we're not going to the Titanic, we want on a European ship. We want to develop European sails, see a European lighthouse, and indeed, those who are very tormented, citizens of Serbia, lead through security and stability. We will not defend Tomislav Nikolic or you from the SRS here, it is an internal issue of the SRS and you have the right to participate. I'll just remind you that all your lists in the local elections are called SRS-Tomislav Nikolic and today, until today. I give you my word, we will find the strength to adopt these points of the agenda, to honor the work of this Parliament and not to deal with the internal affairs of the radical 'Titanika', but to deal with European laws and a better life of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2410	The word is Mr. Dragan Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 103 of Section 2. It seems that it is an observation that the Parliamentary Club "Forward, Serbia" will fill some other MPs with truth. I don't have a dilemma about that anymore. Let's get some things straight, though. You know, in general, in life, whatever you do, you choose how you do it. Basically, you can hardly find a middle when situations like this are like this. That path can be honorable or dishonest. We can claim both, that we are scarred, that we have reason to say so, but the main judge of all this is the citizens of Serbia, who will have the opportunity to say their word about it. I'll give you one of the examples, and I'll tell you Cedomir Jovanovic and his party. I will never agree with Cedomir Jovanovic, absolutely not with his political views, nor with his policy-making methods, but when it comes to the way Cedomir Jovanovic has chosen respect for himself, then I have no dilemma. You know, Cedomir Jovanovic tried to fight for his views in his own party. Whether he's right or wrong, I don't know, and I don't want to talk about it. That's what DS members decided. He did not get a majority, he founded his party, correctly and fairly participated in the elections, and he is an honourable MP for me. There are others, who even say the councilmen -- they did not come to keep the mandates, but they are not affected at all by what their mandates will be kidnapped, they will remain in this new party. Why don't they show example and MPs? I guess the first of the equals should show it? I guess it's honorable, if dozens of people are going to lose their mandates and some are going to lose their jobs and some are going to bite their wages. Some things don't add up. That's the basic problem here, the problem you're heating up, that you're supporting. I'm running out of time, because I thought, first of all, that I would turn to you, Mrs. Kolundjia, and I would retain the right to report back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2412	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2413	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Members of 100, 103 and 104. Article 100(1) - the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his opinion, is injured, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, with the ability to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. Dear citizens, if you have followed today's debate, you have probably noticed that at least 70% of the Members of Parliament who have been injured all day, from 10 o'clock and, behold, to 17 o'clock, have not stated at all which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, let alone explained the injury involved. Article 103, several MPs of the ruling coalition have advertised the violation of this article, Article 1 – the speaker can speak about the issue on the agenda. Once again, I would like to point out that today we were to attend a session consisting of four points. Unfortunately, we are still at the first point, and that is the proposal for a decision to suspend the function and elect members of the National Bank Council. Those who listened carefully to this debate probably heard that for these five or six hours, maybe, we haven't discussed the proposed members in ten or 15 minutes. I would like, in front of the Parliamentary Club of Minorities and SVM, to appeal to all MPs, regardless of what they say in various media, that they do not abuse the pay phone, that they do not block Parliament's work, that I appeal to them to really think about what they are doing. This is neither the time nor the place for inter-party conflicts, I don't know how to say, inter-party or inter-party conflicts. You must solve it, the ruling coalition. And some opposition representatives are really trying to get the National Assembly in order. I have not yet read Article 104, paragraph 1, and why I advertised it – the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Believe that this whole situation depicts the whole of Parliament, that people really think that we are unserious. As part of the ruling coalition, the SVM and the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, we express great regret that, as far as the White Schengen List is concerned, of the 44 required laws, we have adopted only two. You can no longer criticize us, nor can the government send these laws. You know that there have been 15-20 necessary laws in the assembly procedure and that we have already planned a session for tomorrow to begin the discussion of eight laws. I agree that the session cannot be speeded up and I agree that we need a good opposition, which will improve the laws with good amendments, we agree to work and extend. So we need a good opposition, which will make good amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2414	Time, Mrs. Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2415	.... Which will, eventually, criticise what she doesn't like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2416	The word is Mr. Milorad Krstin, and then Mr. Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that Tomislav Nikolic is not here right now, because he started with the story that MPs shouldn't give blanco resignations, that it was a mistake. I am a witness, from these 78 MPs of the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, that when I went to the cabinet, i.e. I'd like to sign a blank resignation, sir. 225th and 226, Article 101st, Tomislav Nikolic came out and asked who hasn't signed yet. The bug said – Srboljub Zivanovic. Give me over here, faster, where it is. She called him. Tomislav Nikolic asked him – where are you? He probably answered that he was at a restaurant, or he was at a restaurant. He said, "I hope this is your last bite." Here is a man who doesn't swear, a man who doesn't like to swear him, and no one swears him, a man who has sent a curse to the honourable MP; then he was the deputy president of the SRS and the head of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2418	I ask the MPs to use the members of 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure in accordance with the content and essence, i.e. the intensities of the text: ''The Members of the People have the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. For a more complete notification, official publications of the National Assembly and of the information and documentation materials on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session and on other issues from the National Assembly’s section. "The People's Parliament has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues from the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which it needs in order to fulfil the functions of the MP." Please comply with Articles 225 and 226 when you refer to them. The word is Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. Mr. Ruzic inspired me to ask Minister Dacic for a notice. So, there's been a theft. As a citizen and a member of the SRS, I report that they are NN. the persons entered the party and collected the documentation containing the resignations of the SRS parliamentary group. I'm looking for information on why Minister Dacic isn't responding. If this isn't true, let him arrest me. If it's true, have him arrest a thief. It's about stealing. Mrs. Kolundjia, you've been talking here about some domestic matters in the party. They say Mr. Ristic is an expert on law. I believe so, but we have legal standards, we have moral standards. Mrs. Kolundjia, we're talking about morality. Is it moral for you to protect thieves here? Why am I telling you this? Mrs. Kolundjia, remember, we will prove to you that you are involved in this thieving, your MP group and your president. I'll read you one sentence from Mr Nikolic at the Central Homeland Administration. Gentlemen, please listen, this is about you, Mrs Kolundzija, with President Tadic: "I have enough money for life." Why is it about you? He got money from your register and we'll prove it, Mrs. Kolundjia, and then we'll see moral values. I'm talking about that thief. I'd be in the ground if you'd defend me here, if I were Tom's place. A Serbian radical to defend Hope Kolundji, a yellow, from the DS!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2420	Mr Milan Avramović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a recent student of Tomislav Nikolic, I have more than a moral dilemma to go out and read what Mr Nikolic taught me personally. Now I'm going to give you a notice from a daily newspaper.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2422	You can tell which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2423	Madam Chairman, what member of the Rules of Procedure says that at the very beginning of the hearing, I must inform which member is involved? So, Article 226, it's no problem for me to inform the National Assembly by which member I went out. So, "Kurir", 19 May 2005: "Leader of Radicals Tomislav Nikolic as if he had not been very shaken that he had been left by an MP. He added that the new constitution should prescribe that the draft electoral list should be open to mandates, to prevent parties from entering the Assembly by buying the mandate."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2424	The theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2425	I'll say it again if you haven't heard. Another thing that is very important, when it comes to morality and stealing, it doesn't matter what kind of theft, and stealing a mandate, it's mandatory to find individuals and go out for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2426	The content you're talking about doesn't contribute to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Please adjust the content of the exposure to the injured Rules of Procedure and the member to whom you have called.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2427	I'm sorry, if it's no problem for me to keep going and get my time back on track. So, when it comes to stealing, it doesn't matter which species, it's mandatory to find individuals from the DS, whether it's about stealing a mandate or stealing some other kind, but MPs of the DS for a pay phone have to come out. Then the famous Bosko Ristic found himself to defend the poor and innocent Tomislav Nikolic. I will now read to you what the moral values of Tomislav Nikolic himself, whom he taught me in my previous term. He says this: "No politician in Serbia is responsible for having the MP in office. Did the SRS win 82 seats? We have so much to have at any moment. Did Bogoljub Karic win any parliamentary seats? It's not. Well, where did he get it? This is a simple matter, but this is a fundamental question for Serbia. We're at a turning point. I wouldn't have to give up. As bad as you think about politicians, insist on who's moral and who's not. ''The current behaviour of the head of the newly formed parliamentary group speaks enough about morality and its disciples, who, fortunately, did not go his way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2428	I don't know who the question was, so I can't give you an answer. The word is Celović Ferzo.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I've come out to speak, unfortunately, in this context. I'd be so much happier if I'd picked up the first time and went out for a pay phone in another context. Of course, I don't mind hearing from you in this context. We all day, especially since 11 June, from the constitution to today...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2430	You'll just say a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2431	I'm advertising a breach of Article 103. Rules of Procedure: "The speaker can only speak about the issue on the agenda" and regarding Article 104: "The Members of the People are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and are obliged to observe the agenda." We can't get on the agenda today, we can't discuss the agenda. That is the crucial need of Serbian citizens. I come from an environment that expects this Parliament to continue what we have at least fundamentally adopted in connection with the Association Agreement and the Gas Agreement and that this country can work normally. Do you know how many poor, unemployed, displaced, scattered in Serbia, how many Serbian citizens suffer because there are not enough resources for elementary life, to educate children, to treat themselves? It's all the work of the Members of the People. Believe me, what I've seen on TV so far on Serbian Parliament, over the past 18 years, I didn't believe something like this was happening in this assembly, where we've been sent to allow citizens of Serbia to live better. I am sorry that you, gentlemen of the SRS and the opposition, make it impossible for the citizens of Serbia and your voters, to live better and more normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2432	He has the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, Mrs. Beaver.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 1(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 104. I am advertising Article 104 for the presentation of Mr Milivojevic, whom he should have, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, to react to. Mr Milivojevic said, with a threatening tone, that they would find ways, I don't know which ones, to stop the MPs from speaking and to move on to some agenda. Since such a statement has recently been made in the media, and Dragan Sutanovac, and you have not responded, I am very afraid and, I do not know, I am afraid that Sutanovac, indeed, will not bring the army to the SRS. You don't react when MPs threaten us. When it comes to Article 101. 2, this refers to the debate of Mr. Bosko Ristic, who brought two great lies here. First, he said that for today's session, the agenda was proposed with laws that should take us to the Schengen list. But that's not true. Today should be on the agenda: Proposals for a decision on the termination of office and election of members of the NBS Council; Proposal for a decision to elect a Deputy Protector of the Citizens; Proposal for a decision to suspend the duties of holders of judicial functions and a proposal for a decision to appoint a deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As for those laws you're talking about, which you claim will take us to the white Schengen list, you should tell the citizens of Serbia that some part of those laws were obtained two days ago and that you intended to, i.e. You still intend to unite the debate, to make it impossible for the MPs to make amendments to these laws. That's true. Then, colleague Ristic, you said that, with our participation in the debate, we were obstructing. I will never let any of the Serbian radicals call what we do here an obstruction, no matter what you think. So we're just working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You further said that the agenda and the motions for a decision to suspend the duties of judicial officials who filed a request a year or two ago to cease their post, that they would receive salaries and that we would do damage to the citizens of Serbia. Question number one is this: Why has it waited two years? When it's on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2434	You're out of time. Ma'am, finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2435	Just one more sentence to say. That's what I'm going to ask Mr. Dulic. You were on the Committee, Mr. Ristic, when his colleague Jojic asked, as far as personal incomes were concerned – did the moment they marked, at the end of the function, they also received personal incomes, this is a stenogram, said it was absolute. So those who are resolved on a personal request, who cease their function on a personal request, did not receive personal income, except in that month until they had been decided on their request. Did you lie then, or did you lie today?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2436	He has the word Mr. Dragan Šormaz, to prepare Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2437	I called a lot earlier, but, well, that's right. I volunteered under Article 104 to respond to what Mr. Ristic said, as well as to my colleague Milivojevic, after him, in one part. So, that story about how there are good MPs who want to take Serbia to the European Union and the bad ones who don't want it, you can use it for a while, but it seems like you're narrowing your space and you have less and less time to talk about it. That, first of all, is not true, at least as far as DSS MPs are concerned. If any man thinks so, let him surround himself and say which messengers he thinks of, and not to say, the Messengers of the opposition, for we are also messengers of the opposition. On the other hand, it is completely pointless for you to say such a thing, since most of these laws were handed over in the last term and were in the congregation procedure. Why didn't Oliver Dulic put them on the agenda? He was president of the Assembly, from the DS, why didn't he put them on the agenda, why didn't we discuss those laws then and why didn't we vote them? For what do you expect now, that we may help you? You tripped, didn't listen to us about the SAA. Not that there is no ratification of the SAA in Europe, but there is no, even, trade agreement. We warned that it would happen, and now you've experienced a fiasco, your ship, it's called "Titanic" or not, it's pierced. Otherwise, Titanic was a European ship. You know very well that it was an English ship, manufactured in Ireland, but then it was Britain. On the other hand, you can't say that we're holding you back. You can't say that, that's not true. We don't do that. When you speak, you speak with precision and clarity. That's just as the president has now tried to subdue Article 226, when you call on him, that you must speak within the agenda. That's not true either. Read it, it's the best member in the Rules of Procedure. It is the best, because it shows how democratic Serbia is and should never be changed, whoever is in power, whoever is the opposition. Of course it should not be misused, but no one can ban an MP from asking a question and asking for information, it clearly states in Article 226. It clearly doesn't mean anything to me, or it doesn't say when. Read it, it doesn't say it's a parliamentary matter. Read Article 226, that doesn't say. But I'm interested in why Dinkic kept his mouth shut. Come to Shyoga, Dinkic shut up. What happened to him? What's he lost air of, what's he, what's he lost his voice to? What happened to everything he said? Who can forbid me to ask that? I'm interested in that. You're talking about European integration. And what did the IMF tell you yesterday?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2438	You're out of time, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2439	What did the IMF tell you about the issue of fiscal and budgetary policy – you are a government that does not lead Serbia towards the European Union? You don't know Serbia that you're leading towards the European Union and you show it every day. You're just making a declaration, but you're willing to do just what's in the interest of the coalition, to stay in power, not what Serbia needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2440	I, literally, also read Article 225 and Article 226. Rules of Procedure. If you have any objections... You praise it, content, it's okay. He has the word Mr. Todorovic, and then Mrs. Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2441	In order to strictly respect the Rules of Procedure, I will say that I am reporting under Article 101, part of the first position, which says – if he misreads his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to reply. Also, item 2: "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, that is, a political party whose MPs belong to that political group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply." Mrs. Kolundjia, I wanted to come out immediately after your presentation and draw attention to some of the things that you keep trying to practice in the National Assembly, to replace the thesis, because these are some things that teach you at certain seminars, to transfer the ball to a foreign courtyard and disabling Serbian citizens. You went out and said the SRS was holding Serbia back to come on the white Schengen list. Until a while ago, you said the SRS was holding Serbia back from entering Europe, not to adopt a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Ratified agreement, you came to Brussels, and they blew you away so you didn't know where you were. Instead of discussing the responsibility of those who have been distracting Serbia for eight years on the road to Europe, you have now found a white Schengen list. Who are you kidding? You claim here that this is a matter to resolve the opposition, as it says in the Constitution, the law, and what did you do in 2001? By what constitution and law have you expelled 46 MPs from this congregation? Total at the time, when Bosko Ristic was chairman of the Administrative Board, the assembly had 346 MPs. You weren't worried about how much money they pay then, and now you're supposed to be worried because those who need to be relieved are getting paid. How do you not remember the time when some parties who were not parliamentary became parliamentary? You remember, G17, and the "Serb Power" of Bogoljub Karic. I'll remind you now. Someone from this pay phone said that political prostitution had started in the Serbian Parliament and that the Serbian Parliament was personal on the cattle market, but you are today hearty defending you. You kind of change your relationship, then when it suits you, you're for one thing, and when it doesn't suit you, then you're for the other. You know, the truth is, you have to make sure that we're not forgotten, that we remember a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2442	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2443	The Honorable Presidency, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting under Article 103, which says that the MP is required to stick to the agenda. We are not here at the Central State Administration and we are absolutely not interested in Seselj or Tom Nikolic in your internal discussions. So we're here because we have very clear agenda points and I ask you, Madam President, to start strictly applying the Rules of Procedure. We will not advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, asking that we declare it, because we know that it is very difficult for you to lead this congregation in these circumstances. We have a lot of understanding for your efforts, but please, because this is what Serbian citizens expect us to do on the agenda, and those who have party debates and moral debates about whether someone was the best by yesterday and today is the worst, it is none of our business, nor does it concern the citizens of Serbia. So, please, the Rules of Procedure are very clear, MPs have to talk about the agenda, unless the procedure is violated. All that's going on here today is a serious abuse of the Rules of Procedure and, in fact, abuse of the procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Once again, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, I ask you and all the MPs, to do what we are here for, and you, Madam President, to strictly apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2444	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2445	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know what you're angry about, colleague Ristic, but I waited patiently and didn't come out for a replica when you spoke half an hour ago, even though I recognized yourself in your presentation. But, no problem, you'll get the opportunity to speak, anyway in the analysis of the assembly sessions everything you said wasn't exactly recorded in some great letters. You said what you had, keep going. As far as I'm concerned, Mrs. Kolundjia, I have to tell you that you're really wrong. You're the president of the party that's in power. Your party president, unfortunately, the president of the state and you can't even close your eyes like... I say – unfortunately, because I think Boris Tadic, as he thinks I am convinced, at this point, and most Serbian citizens, are not doing well for the interests of Serbian citizens. I will fight him to humiliate both the MPs and the ruling coalition, that is, the part that agrees. It is their right, but I do not want to be humiliated as a citizen, because your relationship with what is happening today in Serbia is, in fact, the relationship of Boris Tadic. If you in Serbia today, Mrs Kolundzija, have just heard of Mr Todorovic, you have a situation to hold municipal parliaments, to work district courts, to act under the Law on Local Elections and to make judgments in favour of the SRS, which submitted the lists in the committee elections, as well as for the MPs, you cannot turn a blind eye to that fact, although you do not live in Kragujevac, where, of course, it will already happen at the first meeting of the Assembly. A colleague from the Serbian Renewal Movement, also his party activated his resignation, he for some of his reasons, we – because we deleted, blew off these traitors from the SRS and proposed 10 new candidates. But you, Mrs. Kolundjia, can't claim that nothing is happening in Serbia right now. Yesterday was the session of the Jagodina Municipality Assembly. There is a legal, legitimate, Mr. Palma who wants to respect the Law on Local Elections, and you do not want to respect the Constitution of Serbia, replaced by that traitorly excluded group, which, according to instructions, directly, Tomislav Nikolic went to the breaking of the SRS. It's unconstitutional and against the law, Mrs. Kolundjia. If you were someone who respects the Constitution and the Law, you would be wondering by now why someone you treat as your colleague, and he, in fact, is nothing, a Yogi-Flyer, a Martian, whatever you call him, everything is just not a folk MP, admitted to the camera that he was a thief, that he stole the resignations of the MPs. Instead of asking yourself that, you say you live in a democratic state, Boris Tadic boasts. What's the D.A.'s office doing? How come this person hasn't been brought in yet? How does an investigative judge not do his job? Who will obey the law and the Constitution of this country? I heard that someone who is a Serbian citizen, who has the right to vote there for a Garashan's party in the elections, said -- I don't know what hurts them when I was just a rock in an SRS shoe? Oh, it was nothing, no shreds, blown away, it's gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2446	The word is Mr. Stevanović Dragan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I'm advertising a breach of article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which says that MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. What I am calling for by advertising the injury is the fact that several MPs of the congregation's majority on all of what the SRS is trying to make today as if it were abuse of the assembly pay phone. Namely, the Assembly and the Assembly speaker serve to discuss, to debate and discuss, and what is present in this assembly today – is the abuse of parliamentary mandates, abuse and termination of the electoral will of citizens. This is what all of you who belong to the congregation majority should face and solve this problem in the Constitution and law. What is also, today, in principle, a violation of Parliament's dignity, is the fact that representatives of the assembly majority go out for a pay phone and laminate over Serbia's fate, as the opposition allegedly prevents them from leading Serbia into European integration and that we are an obstacle to the European path of Serbia, and in the past eight years have had the opportunity to show, to prove how truly they are attached to European values and to the implementation of the principles of the European Union and European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2448	Please, advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, bring content of advertising to the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2449	Give me back that minute. Madam President, I've advertised the violation of Article 104 because MPs of the assembly's majority have deceived both MPs and the public who watch us on television. It is impossible and it is not true that the SRS is challenging or defending Serbia to come to the White Schengen list, when the laws you want to adopt tomorrow are sent two days before the meeting; you are asking us to adopt them by emergency procedure, and they will apply in four, six, nine months, or a year. In the light of these laws, you make it possible for Serbia to meet a lot of things, to prepare them in technical and other terms in order to be... Mr. Milivoevich, I'm sorry, did you tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2450	Please allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2451	Therefore, you had eight years to show your European definitions. How many strategic national character documents have you adopted? How much and how much did you do in fulfillment, or should I say by percepting the importance of meeting standards in the field of environmental protection? Gentlemen of the Yellow Enterprise, this country has no orderly fixed motion pad. That means we don't know where we are, we don't know what's private, we don't know what's state. Mrs. Comic, I'm not making this up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2452	Please allow the MP to speak, and please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2453	Mrs. Comic, the insolence you tend to have when you sit there doesn't fit you at all. Let me finish what I started. The minister in your government, which you voted for, said that the catastre I spoke about would only be given to Serbia in 2010. This means that Serbia does not know where its borders are, which means that Serbia does not know what is private and what is state...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2454	You've exceeded your time in more than a minute. Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2455	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported for the violation of Article 104 and related to members 105 to 113, as well as members 27. Madam President, it was sad to see how the head of the largest party in the ruling coalition must warn you and tell you to apply the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the law, or to apply all the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. The biggest culprit for what is happening in the Serbian Parliament today and what has been happening over the past months is not the opposition, is not the problem that the SRS or the newly formed party, or parliamentary group, has. I do not enjoy it at all, nor do I want to listen to it, but they are allowed to behave in this congregation. They are allowed to try to exorcise the justice they believe in, both the MPs' group. The biggest blame is on Chief Nadia Kolundzija, the head of the MEP group ZES. Now I'll tell you why. Because you didn't provide a 126-seat quorum today, that you'd be united, because you're irresponsible, because you're on your way, Madam President, not knowing how many MPs you have, that you're voting on something you couldn't vote on, because you don't have 126 MPs. Instead of talking about what we stand for, and the ruling coalition, when I say, I mean LDP, we come into a situation to listen to this all day and that after ten hours, or how many hours already, the head of the DS Parliamentary Group comes out and says to the president of the Assembly – please stick to the Rules of Procedure. The biggest guilt is on your side and on her side. We don't get a chance to say things, Madam President. Surely, we are interested in why, for example, it cannot come to the agenda of the Declaration on the position of the National Assembly in the process of Serbia's admission to full membership in the European Union? We are interested in why we have spent so much time explaining to MPs and citizens why it is important for Serbia to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement to experience a fiasco in Brussels? We are interested in why you are all silent about the results of the talks with Minister of Emergency Mr. Sergei Soygu, who led with Serbia's interior minister, Mr. Dinkic and some others? There's nothing you promised would happen, which is not in the Agreement, that you promised to be in the Treaty. I'm also interested, it's total media darkness, the public can't know that an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund Serbia won't sign. No arrangements. Why isn't there an arrangement? Because our budget policy is completely the opposite of everything that would have to be run. Attention is drawn that you agreed to blackmail five MPs of a small party in your ruling coalition – to raise their pensions to 70%, i.e. now to raise 10% of the average profit, a disaster for this country, that for the next year it is half a billion. It's not a problem, it should be given, but it's going to come up with tomorrow, and in order to give someone that half a billion, you have to have where to take it from, or to get in charge, or to sell something, or to take it from somebody else's budget. You're not gonna do that. That's what we'll see best when there's budget rebalance. Once again, please, you are the most responsible for all of this. You don't need Hope Kolundji to warn you, you have to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2456	Mr. Marash, yesterday we had a meeting, the heads of the parliamentary groups and myself, and we agreed whether we were going to join these dots or not. There was no firm agreement and therefore there were no 126 votes. So if we had decided to be 126, it would have been that much. (Free Marash: I am not satisfied with the answer. ( b) Are you not satisfied with the answer? I say, there were 126 MPs of the parliamentary majority. The fact that there weren't so many hands, simply, there were different attitudes, and that's our deal. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2457	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103(1). I do regret that there has been no unification of the debate, but here you are now carefully timed, so you'll see how long it takes us to explain the first point of the agenda. So today on the agenda, I will repeat, we have a proposal for a decision on the termination of office and the election of members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. As you know, Professor Borko Krstic delivered a letter to the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly number 118, informing the Committee of his resignation as a member of the National Bank Council. Two candidates for vacant posts for members of the National Bank of Serbia Council have been proposed. This is what Mr. Milojko Arsic, a doctor of economic science, doctored in 2006, mastered in 1996 and graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade from 1984 to 1989. He was born on August 19, 1964. Zorica Mladenovic, a regular professor of the University of Belgrade Faculty of Economics, was also proposed in 1965. She graduated in 1987 with an average score of 9.94 and a PhD in 1994. So it takes so long, one minute and thirty seconds, to explain the first item of the agenda. We've been here all day following a divorce case, we've been prisoners of a failed policy all day. Please, let our policies and your citizens be declared in the elections. In the election, you saw how you went, in the presidential, parliamentary. I think anyone who gets tired of dealing with politics and wants to deal with himself can organise party elections, party circles, council sessions, central country administration, but let those who want to do their job, for whom they have been given mandate and trust, work in the way that citizens have given them confidence. When I don't want to do this job, I might actually form a yellow company, but for now I'm not a member of the yellow company, so far I'm a member of the Democratic Party's Parliament Club. I have to tell you from the black company, you have a certain bankruptcy to ask Vojislav Seselj to appoint me as the bankruptcy manager, so we don't be the hostages of this policy that you're leading.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2458	The word is Mr. Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again I appeal to be in accordance with Article 103. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, this assembly defines for the benefit and interest of Serbian citizens. There's been some untruth here at the pay phone. It has been mentioned several times my name, it has been said that I made a lie that currently in Serbia, 70 judges and prosecutors receive a salary every month, a profit of about 100,000 dinars a month, two years ago. That, indeed, is a great burden for Serbian citizens. That's inadmissible. These judges and prosecutors don't do their jobs, come to work whenever they want, leave work without any explanation, and only the first in a month appear to receive their salary. Serbian citizens have only damage to them, cannot protect their interests, their legitimate constitutional rights and freedoms, the judiciary is inefficient, decisions are made very slowly and there is a very large dissatisfaction of citizens over such a situation. It's not true that I said something else in the Justice Committee compared to what I'm saying tonight. It is true, it is read from the stenogram, that only those judges and prosecutors who, on a personal request, have broken their working relationship in the judiciary do not receive salaries, but all those who have completed one of the prescribed conditions to retire, and who come past the will and the law at work and take wages, work at the expense of Serbian citizens. The Assembly is the only authorized body, the only authorised institution that can break up such a situation. So, 70 judges and prosecutors in Serbia take about seven million dinars a month without any work or effort. I think it is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, and those of the youngest, who are just about to start working, to get jobs, but also pensioners, who have done a full-time job and are now enjoying retirement, to get rid of this. We need to get rid of these judges and prosecutors who are unconsciously using budget funds and liberating places for those who want to work safely, honestly and efficiently. I think most of you MPs feel the same way. I ask you not to be the hostages of a party debate and not to involve all citizens of Serbia in that same argument and to ask that you count yourself before the citizens who are stronger. That's what the court will tell you about and those citizens themselves. I call on you to participate in the work of Parliament and all its working bodies, because it is a very common case that those who criticise are reluctant to participate in the quorum, do not want to vote to unite the agenda, and now they say that they cannot start the debate here, and do not want to participate in the work of the working bodies of the Assembly. The responsibility of the government and the opposition is for the Assembly to work, to pass laws and is legitimately the right of the majority to pursue policy in this parliament in accordance with the programme for which the citizens voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2460	The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2461	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 27. It concerns, Madam President, your way of leading this House, the highest legislative and representative body. We're getting a draft agenda for tomorrow. What were you doing back in the day? As a Mexican series, consultations on the resolution on Kosovo lasted. Of those resolutions, otherwise, there's no way. Parliament in Serbia is making more resolutions, and Kosovo in Serbia is becoming less and less. We can't even make a deal about it. Then how do we look in the eyes of the world? It's a waste of the Foreign Minister's efforts. The man is more in the air than on earth, visiting various countries and trying to convince them that we should vote on a motion for our resolution in the General Assembly of the United Nations. The president at the General Assembly's session is urging everyone to vote for it, and here, it takes several days of sessions on all of this, and then you send us a draft agenda for tomorrow with significant laws. Let's just say, the bill of confiscation of property stemmed from a felony. There will immediately be a question of a number of crimes related to the Horgos-Požega concession. Some of them have to go to jail right now. Furthermore, the draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. Serbia stands between 85th and 91st when it comes to corruption. It's a shame and a shame. These are serious laws, which need serious preparation, and this is, I said earlier this afternoon, the imitation of the National Assembly, which is this way of doing here. Don't lecture anyone, you from the ruling coalition. The ruling coalition is responsible for this. It's been two months, the Assembly has been working effectively for two days. Who's responsible? The ruling coalition. Who's responsible? President of Parliament. One more thing in accordance with the provisions of Art. 125th and 126th. I asked how it was possible for the Energy Agreement to be led here by Russian Emergency Minister Sergei Shyg and Serbian Police Minister, and whoever's supposed to talk about it has shut up? Do you know why he silenced the Minister of Economy and went to America? Because the Russian security services entered the Euroaxis Bank. It is the same bank where it was part of the country's foreign reserves, through which the National Savings Bank was privatised, whose main shareholders are the largest tycoons in the country. That's why he's silent now, and then the Energy Agreement is being negotiated by the police minister. Of course, it's his jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-25-0.u2462	Gentlemen, over 90 participants in today's debate have practically expressed a desire to advertise the Rules of Procedure, to allegedly contribute to the work, atmosphere and dignity of the Assembly. But the atmosphere hasn't changed since early morning. I suggest we make another brief consult and continue our work tomorrow at 10:00, but tomorrow we'll work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 150 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Mr Sasa Jankovic, a civil protectionist. Before we continue the session, let me give you a brief notice. I would like to inform you that the start of the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2008, which was called for today at 10.00 hours, due to the inability to begin at the scheduled time, is to be moved until the session of this fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly is completed and I stress that this is not a matter of delaying the start of the session for the reasons provided for in Article 84(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but it is only an inability for the session to begin at the scheduled time. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE DECISION ON FINISHING THE FUNCTION AND THE CHOICE OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA, acting in accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Here you go.
