ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11930	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. On the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, 100 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. By applying the electronic voting system, it has been established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1), paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for today's session to be attended by members of the government and Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, as well as Mrs. Ruzica Stojiljkovic, assistant director of the Treasury Office. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. We continue the search by amendment to Article 5, sections 3 and 14, submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Acimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the amendment to the 2009 draft budget law submitted by Mr. Momir Markovic in front of the SRS group. In Article 5, in position 4.2.3, contracted services, in columns 6 and 8, the amount of 13 million dinars is replaced by five million dinars of the first Deputy Prime Minister's cabinet. In Article 5, in position 4.5.1, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in column 6, the amount of 17 billion and 285 million is replaced by 17 billion and 293 million, and in column 8 billion 885 million is replaced by 17 billion 893 million dinars in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. The SRS considers it necessary to reduce the amount of services per contract and the same amount of awareness in real terms due to the global economic and financial crisis and savings in state bodies. I believe that these savings should be transferred to subsidies for the development and improvement of agricultural production. The ministry of agriculture, forestry and water industry, unlike other ministries, has been cut financially by 26%, while the rest of the ministries have been denied 15% of the budget. Who's doing the damage? These are again agricultural producers, which did not receive the intended funds under the regulation this year. Fifty per cent are those who sold June to slaughterhouses across Serbia and have still been denied 70 euros per throat. Also, those who bought gulf systems and machinery did not charge for the projected funds belonging to them under the Regulations of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. In the ministry, the answer for unpaid money is incomplete documentation of agricultural producers. I believe that accepting this amendment will create a better chance of respecting the most vulnerable citizens of Serbia, which are agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11932	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, most of the amendments of the SRS to Article 5, where I said yesterday, actually deploys about 700 billion dinars of Serbian citizens, refers precisely to the fact that from some of the positions that we thought more funds were foreseen, especially for 2009, which is predicted as a year that will be very bad in terms of materiality for Serbian citizens, that you are being reduced to some rational and normal measure and that everything that is foreseen in those positions is actually being transferred to subsidies for agriculture. We think there are too many false promises, maybe this is too mild an expression when I say a little too much, because everyone in election campaigns and not just in election campaigns, still in public when you talk about the budget, you from the ruling coalition and representatives of the government, especially, you're still talking to fairy-tale citizens, how you've allocated enough funds, how you've increased this or that part of the budget. It is obvious that, in fact, through this budget, you had no intention of doing anything to contribute, as far as possible in the difficult year as we are expected, to improve the lives of Serbian citizens. It is obvious that the budget is done so that the restrictions will be least felt by high-ranking state officials. That's not good. First of all, it would be normal for all state authorities to share the fate of their people in every way, and when it comes to the distribution of funds from the budget, then it is more normal, both smarter, and more serious, and more state-of-the-art and however you want the belt to be tightened by state authorities, so if Serbia's citizens have to. Obviously, you didn't plan to, and that's why ministers send us very strange messages every day, from telling Oliver Dulic that he saves his humble home budget by shutting down the computer when he leaves the house, turning off the TV, turning off the lights. Minister Milosavljevic says don't buy stoves and refrigerators. It sends that message, the one you simply confuse the citizens of Serbia, and you're actually sending them a message -- we don't care about you, it's important to us who control it well. It's not good, ladies and gentlemen, or for you, and it'll be very soon for the citizens to show you and show you every day these protests in wintertime. It doesn't touch you. The Prime Minister sends messages that jobs should be kept, I guess he learned that, as Krasic would say, on Saturday's tide. He says jobs can't be saved by strikes, protests, because the employer's gonna get bored, so the employers are gonna start firing you. He orders employers only you fire, we don't care, you cut down on these groups of people outside the government of the Republic of Serbia, outside the presidency building. We have something very interesting, which Mrs Kalanovic said in an interview, and I ask Mrs Dragutinovic to do as soon as possible, if possible today, and I think it is possible for you to get this information from the service, Mrs Kalanovic said that the government will seriously save on mobile phone costs. I found that interesting for two reasons. First, and therefore I ask the answer to this question: how much of this money is spent on mobile phones in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if saving on phones can have a significant impact on the budget? So how much is spent monthly on mobile phones and how many mobile phones in the government of the Republic of Serbia are used for the cost of Serbian citizens? I don't just mean ministers, I mean all the cell phones used. That question was provoked by Mrs Kalanovic's statement, because I didn't think it could be some item that could affect either positively or negatively the state of the budget. Madam Minister, we ask you to answer where the funds are provided, it was published in a daily newspaper -- a million euros for Mladic. The government of Serbia's action team to end co-operation with The Hague tribunal has again announced a 1m-euro reward in the dinar counter-value for information that will lead to the location and arrest of Ratko Mladic. When it comes to information on the second Hague indictee, Goran Hadzic, the state has offered a reward of 250,000 euros. On a kind of warrant, which the "Kurira" newspaper has come up with, it says that anyone who has information that would lead to the finding and deprivement of the persons charged with war crimes during the armed conflicts on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, can say everything they know about a number of people, and the confidentiality of the data and identity of the person is guaranteed. It is commented that this time, in fact, Mr. Todorovic said, those from the government decided to give a million euros to Mladic, and then the question is who will take the four million, since the US and EU orders to give Ratko Mladic's head fivem euros. Madam Minister, in what division, in which head, in which function, in which economic classification did you predict a million and 250 thousand euros in dinar equivalent to someone who would reveal the whereabouts of Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic? A long question: have you asked the citizens of Serbia who are filling this budget, who are paying both you and me, who are paying all the users of the budget, did you ask those citizens if they are willing to give their only dinar for Ratko Mladic's head? I am convinced that most of you would have no such thing and you have no right to have the means of the citizens. Please, I made an observation to you the other day, leaving you the impression of a minister who listens carefully to the MPs because you're sitting there all day, but I'm sitting behind you and I noticed that you don't care what we say, while we're talking, I'm asking you to answer these questions that I asked you because you can get this information in the next 15 days from your associates in the service. Please give us an answer to these questions. As for the amendment of fellow Members of Momir Markovic, where we asked that section 3, chapter 3.2, function 110, in the economic classification of 423, reduce the service under the first Deputy Prime Minister's contract, certainly that the amendment should be accepted, because since we are always asking about budgets, what are your services under your contract, and since I repeat what I said yesterday, we have no opportunity to discuss how the budget for the previous year has been spent, because we do not get final accounts for the budget, we never know what these services are to you under contract. You predicted the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister 13 million dinars for services under contract. Madam Minister, is it possible that this 13 million is foreseen for the Government of the Divac as special advisor to the First Vice-President of the Government? So, we need to know, the citizens of Serbia want to know where each of their dollars is going, and that you spend about 13 million dinars per contract service, you have these items in every ministry, in every state body, very high amounts based on the total amount of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and you have to answer that. You should certainly accept Mr. Momir Markovic's amendment and reduce this amount from 13 million to five and transfer eight million to agricultural subsidies. Just stop talking about standing up for this or that category of Serbian citizens, do something concrete. Here, we are telling Serbian citizens that we have asked that all services under contract in all ministries, in all state bodies, be reduced to less than half of what is foreseen, that all these funds be transferred for subsidies for agriculture. We are confident that this would really contribute to the seriousness of the state, that is, to show the state in this way, of course, in the right way to fund agriculture, to take care of that category of citizens of Serbia, in which we all have eyes, and we all know that agriculture is the most important thing for us, that while our peasants are working and processing our country we can count on not being hungry, but we also have to count on them to produce for themselves... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm done. So, please, accept this amendment and all the amendments, where instead of some kind of contract with the Wildling or who knows what money you transfer with for the needs of the farmer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11934	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11935	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm very glad that Mrs. Minister is here today when I want to talk about one of the topics that I set out last week, but since he was then Mr. Bradic I didn't find a talker for this story, and since I know that Mrs. Secretary is an extremely reasonable person, I think he should listen to what I want to talk about. On behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I would like to support the amendment of my fellow SRS counterparts because agriculture is, in fact, the only export chance Serbia has on the European market. I want to support it precisely because the theme of agriculture and livestock, which I want to say here, is extremely important to Serbia right now. Last week, I noted the state of Serbia's veterinary service, which will lead to this government's maternal relationship, with the failure to pay off 700 million debt only to the field service of veterinarians in Serbia for jobs they worked for Serbia and for all citizens of Serbia during 2008, and since July 2008, they have not been paid what they belong to. In fact, the veterinary service protected the entire Serbian stock fund during 2008, regardless of whether the villagers themselves have money for their livestock stock or not, the state is covering it in that part, and it's very important that we know. So they also protected a fund of cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, horses, animals, dogs and cats. I quote on purpose, because we know that there is anger in Serbia in many areas, we know that there is swine fever as a latent possibility of showing up because they will not be able to do their jobs. They protected the indirect livestock fund, directly and citizens of Serbia from all diseases that come together for humans and animals carried over meat. The state hasn't paid, I say, for the field service alone 700 million and for the labs another 300 million. So, a billion dinars right now owe the state to the veterinary service and the Department of Veterans. When I look at the 2009 draft budget, I see that for the implementation of the programme of animal health measures, for the production of safe food, for the removal of slaughterhouse waste, for the prevention and eradication of particularly dangerous and infectious diseases, the Government predicted 60% of the funds in 2009 rather than in 2008. To put it in numbers -- in 2008, 2.5 billion were foreseen for this programme of measures, in 2009, you predict 816 million. When I look at this, then I have to ask if the government wants to pay the debt it has to the veterinary service and to the Department of Veterans, or the Ministry of Agriculture? If he won't pay their debt, and I don't see it planned in the budget, count on us not to be able to export anything to the EU, and that we citizens of Serbia, means every child and every citizen who has the opportunity to buy a piece of meat, think about whether his food is safe and whether he can give it to his child. On the other hand, if the Government wants to pay the debt, and I count on you to be a reasonable government, because simply no country in the world since the beginning of the veterinary service has had a country that has rejected the services of the veterinary service in the animal health measures programme, unless you intend to pay the debt, count on shutting down the service. If you shut down the service or don't pay off these debts, what happens? We'll have a completely unprotected stock fund. There will be particularly dangerous infectious diseases - swine fever, typical animal plague. There will be infections in people who carry animals, diseases common to animals and humans, so-called animals. Zoonoses. There will be complete destruction of the cattle stock, until the collapse of farms and peasants in the end. There will be a clan of rejuvenation, a destruction of quality breeding material. Exports will stop, and count on it to be our export chance. The EU will not import animals or products of animal origin - meat, eggs, milk. This is our only chance, I say again, and I must tell you that on January 19th, a commission of agricultural, or a EU veterinary committee comes and comes very qualified people, who will not allow Serbia to export one gram of meat, no egg, no half liter of milk unless it has certain certificates, and everyone in it knows what it looks like. So we simply need to understand that we will stop the process of Serbia's approximation of the EU precisely because we will not have the opportunity to pay the debt and to pay the funds for next year. I must tell you that of the 35,000 pages that serve to comply with our EU regulations, 15 thousand, gentlemen, belong to the veterinary service and protect food safety. If we're smart, this is our chance. In case we don't have the opportunity to pay off, that there are no funds, I don't think that for a serious state, billions aren't that big of funds, because DSS MPs have pointed out, and MPs of other opposition parties have pointed out opportunities where this amount of money can be saved, we won't have any more veterinary services, we won't have animal protection and will pay for the peasant, and he has no where. You cut off 15% of his subsidy and he won't have a chance to have a cattle fund. On the other hand, we'll eat insecure food. You know we have a problem with pig meat, that we have meat from Argentina, from Brazil of suspicious origin. We'll eat anything else of suspicious origin. Serbia still eats the healthiest food. At this point, count on it, and ask the institutions responsible for this, ask the Veterinary Administration, Serbia has the safest service and the greatest coverage of the livestock fund. So, I think I've exposed some things along the way. The veterinarians were also coming to the congregation today. I think the president's with them today. I think we should have a conversation with the other parliamentary groups. I think we should have a conversation with the president of the Agriculture Committee. I think this is a story that is not a story of any party in Serbia, but a story Serbia must support and the Serbian government must support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11936	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 3 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11937	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, fellow Members of Parliament Jeremic and I will share this time because the subject is the same. So, we are trying, Mrs Dragutinovic, to convince you that it is strategically important that we develop the most profitable branch for both Serbia's future and a large number of Serbian farmers, to help them by helping them from the cabinet of the vice-president of the so-called government. European integration of services under contract to reduce to a reasonable five million dinars, and the rest of the amount, the amendment of counterpart Boris Aleksic, up to 16 million and 40,000 dinars, to agricultural subsidies. Indeed, I regretted my absence yesterday, and also with great satisfaction from the National Assembly session. Namely, in the crowded hall of Theatre "Joachim Vujic" in Kragujevac last night, in a town where the SRS was founded and will experience the adulthood of its establishment on February 23rd, the following year was held the promotion of the book of Prof. Vojislav Seselj "The Ocerruped Hague Turkey of Kristina Dahl". At the promotion were people from all the structures of the population, so to speak, from the narrow urban area and from the village. I was asked by farmers, Mrs Dragutinovic, from the forest villages, who came last night to welcome Mr. Aleksandar Stefanovic, and Mr. Duke Sredko Radovanovic, Ljubiš Petkovic and other honorable people who have been put in office of defence of Dr. Vojislav Seselj, to convey their observations to you when it comes to the debate on this agenda point and your ignoring agriculture as necessary and sustainable development and survival in villages in Šumadia in general and throughout Serbia. I just looked at and remembered the exposé that we have here, promoting you and every minister individually and politics this, according to us and the peasants in Serbia, the incompetent government, the government that is unable to launch anything for the benefit of the citizens. That's what the workers see, the ones from the department stores who strike for days under tents and freeze, and don't think they won't come next year and strike the farmer. It is so obvious that they have been neglected and neglected, because not only has there not been a single word, not a single letter about what you will do for the Serbian peasant in this exposé, but it is not mentioned at all, nor is Minister Dragin talking anywhere about what he will do for the Serbian peasant. You remember last year when we had Kyoto protocol, when we had some other laws in the field of environmentalism that he was in charge of back then. He was full of elan. He kept coming to the congregation, made himself available to the parliamentary group. When it comes to the amendment, I remember that we had over 30 amendments to the Kyoto Protocol, Minister Dragin, who had now taken over the farm portfolio, days before that, Mrs Dragutinovic, as Minister of Ecology tried to personally, you now have this one, I would say action plan, you like to call it - to consult with MP groups, so you can see what you can do. You know what they are, not to make demands, but SRS attitudes. You see, it's now 10.40 hours, it's like sand clock time, it's slowly going one grain at a time, it's almost midnight -- you see what you're going to do. You can't play with the largest opposition party in Serbia, and you can't, because there are Serbian peasants behind us, and workers, and officials, and those who are employed in education, and in health care and above all unemployed. They expect us to defend their arguments today. Since it's about European integration, please tell me, Mrs Dragutinovic, here's what Serbian peasants are interested in -- because today in Šumadija you can buy two bags of fertilizer and, someone said, for three drinks in a pub, in a village like around Topola or Knic to buy one ar or two ar of agricultural land -- that's how much it's worth today. All these martyrs are so offended, they're Serbian peasants. I know that myself, because I often go to the country, because that's where my cousins live, these are young people who have little children, who are educated in these rural schools and who want to stay in the country. Who helped them - no one? They're also valuable to those old people. I have an uncle from the family. He's 77 years old and every morning, and now he's on one of the markets around here, and I think he's early this morning and gone to the royal market. What does the state offer him and how did it help him - nothing? All he does is work with his wife, his son, his daughter-in-law, and two grandchildren, who are also students and live in the country. Whenever I ask him how he lives, and he says, never worse. He's getting worse and worse, and he's a tough martyr. Tell me, please, how are we going to keep people in the country when our villages die? How the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration will fight for Serbian agriculture, when their goal is to make as much of the Serbian peasants as possible. Since they started putting those earrings in the ear to the entire Serbian livestock fund and registering our agricultural households, Serbian peasants have been holding their heads. We seriously approach all these problems and when we say agriculture - we think that we need structural changes in agriculture and that the state finds appropriate mechanisms for each branch of agriculture to improve it. A colleague, Dejan Mirovic, who successfully promoted the Faculty of Engineering several days ago, along with his publisher, "Serbian Dvora", the book "Agreements Against the EU". He did not want to go through these arguments, and it would be good if you had this book, I will ask Mr Mirovic, since he has been expertly and very seriously, fundamentally on every segment of these European integrations, has approached you, to give you one book, I know that he will want to, or tell me Mrs Dragutinovic, if you are aware of what is in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement at all times when it comes to Serbian agriculture. He listed only one segment, because it's being run there under agriculture and fishing, he wrote well-in Article 26. The EU grants concessions to imports of agricultural products from Serbia. However, already in Article 27. Serbia undertakes to grant concessions to EU agricultural products. In the position of the first member, it says - from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, Serbia will abolish any quantitative restrictions and measures that have the effect of importing agricultural products from the Community. What are these import lobbys gonna do? Will the peasants again this year, like that man in the Nish area - to take 50 acres of cabbage because he has no one to sell, want to throw these peasants from the Ivanjic area, there from Kusic and Katic tons of potatoes? They're also martyrs, because they load it all on their backs and distribute it to the markets. Will they then say, and will they say, "If this continues, that they may no longer live?" It's a simple reproduction. You don't have an average forest village today, when one of us goes on the campaign, these are yours, and we Serbian radicals, and when it's not a campaign we visit peasants, you come from 10 villages now, on a move from Kragujevac, and there, according to these rural villages, from one of the origins and the president of the Assembly, you can't find three hosts who have a larger cattle fund than a few cows and bulls -- how come when they don't get paid to do that? Therefore, all of these arguments, and those cited by fellow Mirovic, and those who carry from life to us, as MPs, Serbian peasants, farmers, should be enough for you to understand, I said a few days ago, for example, working on one billion euros for the production of healthy food that we are going to export, and not for them to condition us that we import all of what they are through their Miskovic, Delta and other monopolies, selling on our market, we can as a state expect that in the perspective of that one billion but in three years to double the smallest return. This will allow the state to feed our unemployed and Serbian children who are malnourished. Unfortunately, there are several hundred thousand who do not have a basic meal today, and therefore you need to accept this amendment from counterpart Boris Aleksic and everyone we have submitted, and it concerns agriculture and help the Serb peasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11938	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11939	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable citizens of Serbia, the amendment of counterpart Boris Aleksic is similar to that of the previous one, with the same goal, and in order for things to be clearer to the general public, it should be pointed out that the government's proposed solution is to double those intended for the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration and the already existing European Integration Office, which, by the logic of things, should do the same work. I don't want to talk about the way and the sense of existence, but I want to give you a few facts on the basis that you should accept the proposed amendment, if you really think, among other things, that it is necessary in the next 2009 to make maximum savings wherever possible, or to focus the funds on the right side. In fact, the same EU political and economic organisation is due to invest around 200m euros in 2009. You should know one thing, that Serbian emigration invests three billion euros officially and another about two billion euros unofficially in the state of Serbia. The data are relevant and there is no need to doubt them, which basically means that the funds received from immigration are 15 to 20 times greater than the EU. However, the state of Serbia does not pay half the attention to emigration, which counts about five million people, as does the EU's beloved. Unlike the EU, Serbian emigration sets no economic, political conditions, no interest, no Eulex, etc. Why can't the state of Serbia or not want to address this issue? Not to forget, mentioning the 200m-euro amount from the EU is under question, as competition for certain projects for the Union's access funds does not mean automatically and the approval of these funds. I will also remind you of this opportunity to think about US economist and Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglic, who recently pointed out at a lecture in Belgrade that access to these funds, under limited conditions, with high interest rates, is making the position of domestic economy even more difficult. The World Bank's former senior vice-president also believes that direct foreign greenfield investments are always better than any privatisation, and Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the continuity of the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, has managed to raise the most capital just by privatising the company. After that, there was no reinvestment, so the state lost and transferred its resources to other people's hands. A particularly infamous chapter is also the way privatisations have been done. Metaphorically speaking, such privatisation processes have carried out the euthanasia of a multimillion-dollar number of workers, citizens of Serbia. What to say about finding that the source of the problem in the financial sector is short-term bonuses where managers have become rich. That's where they make you gamble, so if the company gets a win and the manager gets a bonus. If the company doesn't do well next year, no one asks that manager to pay back the money. Apparently, Mr. Stiglitz hasn't heard of our Bojan Krishte yet who, at least as promised, will pay back the money. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Boris Aleksic, with his amendment, intended to focus these financial resources on agriculture, in order to increase the competitiveness of Serbian peasant agricultural products in some ways. Once again, I will remind the public that the government, by proposing a 2009 budget, has decided to further collapse this country's strategic branch by reducing subsidies to agriculture, and under the pretext of the global economic crisis. The largest cut suffered by the Ministry of Agriculture, which was intended for 1/4 less money than in the previous year. That is why a good part of the SRS amendment is also aimed at preventing agricultural collapse as a strategic economic branch of Serbia. On the other hand, it is an unreasonable decision to unilaterally apply the Transition Trade Agreement, which will produce according to experts' estimates, but not those from G17, a deficit in the state register worth about 250m euros, and such a reckless decision will have the most damage precisely to the Serbian peasant. In addition to this, I will tell you that in the municipality of Mladenovac, where I come from, only five million dinars for agriculture are foreseen for 2009, and the fact that 70% of the population is oriented towards agriculture, that Mladenvac is an agricultural municipality, was obviously not valid for those who did so. The government's rationale for rejecting the amendments is pointless because the European integration business is already being carried out by the Office whose employees, among other things, are also training others in the area of law in the EU, etc. The 16 million dinars per contract for services is an unreasonablely high amount. As far as I know, there are seven perpetrators, so I'm interested -- as much as this government's proposal envisions hiring people under the contract of action. Please seriously consider this amendment. I consider it essential, as well as several previous ones, and if you want to face reality, I urge you to accept the amendment of counterpart Boris Aleksic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11940	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11941	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this is one of the amendments that tries to unrealize the spending of money with various ministries and vice-presidents of the government to those of which it is much more necessary than with various cabinets and ministers. I will refer to what my colleague, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, said earlier. In addition to the many failed promises or deceived people, whose number is increasing every day, from pensioners through workers who have been promised to extend the collective contract, this will not be, from action, now we come to veterinarians to whom the state owes 700 million dinars at this time. He owes more than 20 billion dinars to the travellers. Veterinary stations last year, following a completion of a tender for the implementation of a programme of animal health measures, carried out those obligations throughout Serbia and currently owed 700m dinars by the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. the Veterinary Administration. It's the same case as with the tolls, as with many other companies doing business for the state, they had to buy these drugs, go to the field, spend their time, spend their money on it. When they invoiced their services to the state, they had to pay VAT to the state, they had to take credit for paying interest to the bank. Now at the end of the year, since they're going to get a profit from that invoice, they're going to have to pay the state's profit tax. When's the state gonna pay for it? We heard the other day that the budget is currently down to about 30 billion dinars. Djelic pledged that as many as tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow, the problem would be resolved, he promised to find a solution to the 25 billion dinar debt in the budget. I honestly believe, in addition to all the promises Djelic has fulfilled, that he will fulfill this. Over the next year, 833 million dinars or nearly 1.3 billion dinars are forecasted for the Veterinary Authority less than the previous year. This means that Serbia will not have a quality animal protection programme next year, i.e. we will come into a very dangerous situation so that various infectious animal diseases can occur in Serbia's territory. There will be no systematic fight against rabies and swine fever, which are the two most dangerous infectious diseases in animals. Imagine a very serious government, a serious ministry, that will deny funds to combat rabies and swine fever. What can Serbian agriculture and Serb livestock expect next year? In 20 days, a delegation from the European Commission will arrive on January 19th, which will monitor the health status of the stock fund in Serbia and the planned measures implemented in Serbia. When she sees no funds for next year's fight against rabies and swine fever and there will be no adequate money to implement the animal health protection measures, it can only imply that there will be no export licences for heart food. You know for a fact that in this area we have barely achieved anything that we have several producers and farms in Serbia that have an export licence for meat exports. These are the EU's strictest regulations. How does the EU protect its market? By prescribing very strict regulations, he has very strict control of product health and thus protects his manufacturers. If it happens that the moment the monitoring comes to Serbia and sees that there are no animal health funds, these few food and meat exports licenses will be hitched. This means that we will not have access to the European market for the export of our products. What else is that going to imply? It will imply that infectious diseases can occur in animals and that we ourselves will not be safe by using food of animal origin. There's plenty of room to cut costs with certain ministries. There's plenty of room where it's mandatory to intervene. If you deny the veterinary resources, for the animal health care programme, it is as if you have denied a health care programme for children or adults. You can't touch those things. Anything else can vary up there, there can be less investment in roads, less investment in sewers, water lines, and I don't know what. Especially less expense for ministers, vice-presidents, for renting a meeting hall, for example. But there must be no denying funds for these purposes. Unless we have a healthy stock fund and we're not safe to use that food. It was barely that stock fund that began to recover after years of collapse. This will further be a blow to the destruction of the stock fund, and the story is that a quarter of the total legislation that needs to be harmonised with the EU belongs to the veterinary and food safety environment. If this stops the entire seven-year-old monitoring, it goes into the water, and then we start at the beginning, from scratch. It'll take us seven years to get back. What will happen to the EU in 2012, when we need to enter? Ministers in the government are very unserious, Madam Minister. They don't deny themselves any pleasure, but where necessary, that's the cut. Think about it. Point them to it. After that brilliant statement that subsidies should be denied to farmers for tobacco production, as this damages the health of the population, another excellent move by Minister Dragin by reducing the funds for the prevention of infectious diseases in animals. Point that out, because that kind of thing only brings this Serbia back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11942	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 3 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11943	This is one of the amendments to the series of these amendments aimed at simply drawing attention to the government's simple attention that it is necessary to remove from this budget all those costs which are unnecessary, unnecessary for the simple reason that in the given circumstances they represent both unnecessary costs and luxury, and something that would not be good to pay. There's no use in what's being paid. It is also explained that these funds are intended for contracts under the division of the cabinets of the Vice-Presidents of the Government for Economic Development are proposed at the level necessary for the functioning of this budget user. Government Vice-President's office - budget user. Officially, it is a budget user, but let's see these funds under contract, what are they used for in that budget user? In the context of Position 423, it is stated that they are assigned to professional services, i.e. to pay for the service of a work contract, that is to say, fees, advisors engaged in the cabinet, within this apropriation and economic classification, shall also be provided for computer services, catering services, representation, education and training services in the cabinet. In the cabinet are all experts, from God to give. Should they be educated by the means of taxpayers, yet not from the ministry, but from the cabinet of a vice president? It's just enough to read what's written here and realize that this is an ordinary kind of manipulation, one of the most common stories about how necessary something is. We asked the amendment to reduce the position from 25 million to five million, with 20 million focusing on the Ministry of Agriculture for subsidies, with a view to restoring agricultural machinery and helping rural areas of the Republic of Serbia to reduce population drains, migration, departure. If everyone stayed on their doorstep and had to create conditions for one normal life, so that they wouldn't go from time to time to time, buying one car, he was promoted as a human man, so since the children lost bus ride and wanted to go to school, he helped the children go to school. Let the state help nicely. Let them cut some of the costs that are necessary, and I think everything about the cabinet of Mladjan Dinkic is absolutely unnecessary. All we have from him is damage. We don't have any use. Since this story is quite the same, criticism is similar, I would take this opportunity to point out to the government representatives, but also to the public in the Republic of Serbia to simply understand what these days are about. By all standards, we have an incompetent government. A government that's torn apart by internal feudal relations, who's more, who's going to be in a better position, who's going to hire as much as possible, who's going to put as many of their own into very significant functions as possible, to control the system, and of course it's becoming unnatural. Since it's unnatural and has internal contradictions, it collapses on itself. The system has collapsed so much that the state doesn't have the money to settle legal obligations. The state has no money to intervene, and from the government we get two different stories. The first is the story - the global economic crisis, we tighten the belts. This applies to everyone else, but not to the government and the civil servants. We hear another story from that euphoric little vice president, how we're going to profit in this crisis. America will be on its knees, and we will profit. America has now set bank interest rates, just so you know, 0.2%. There's a hell of a sale in the West -- 35 to 80%, to clear the stock. That's another topic. Obviously, the National Assembly is not a place to talk about it, because if something more serious starts with a story, mothers get hurt immediately, threats, and headlines like this -- "The Wild" in this paper, it's called "Justice", by the publisher Dragan Gilas. Citizens need to understand one thing, it's not a problem that the budget is late. The problem is, everything in this budget is bad. The problem is that this government inherited governments, and I have to say that this trend started in 2001, over-indebted. They owe everyone -- and to the tolls, and to the vets, and they close the collective agreement, so they say -- it's a delay in applying the collective contract, I was kidding. The Fiat is missing, all free shares per thousand euros, a stutter of free action per thousand euros, there is nothing. Spectacular signature of the deal, then here's the collapse of the agreement. Spectacular concession, then no more concessions. General chaos. Then the easiest way is through Gilas' newspaper, which four or five thousand pieces a day can be sold, and then publishes the final ranking list of participants in the competition for the sale of 1,000 special non-profit apartments and that the funds of the City Assembly fund their list, because the circulation falls, no more people will read such lies, and during that time other media are shutting down, Madam Minister. Do you know what Mladjan Dinkic did? He tightened up these newspaper distributors and they all owe it to newspaper publishers. Then he pressed on those who advertised in the newspaper, to know exactly which newspapers they could receive, so it's known where Dunav Insurance is advertised, Telecom Serbia, Mobile telephony, not to order, all of it goes through Gilas, so Gilas puts economic measures on the free media. And if it wasn't for this National Assembly if it weren't for RTS, the second channel, the citizens of Serbia wouldn't know what was going on. Let me remind you, citizens, January 8th is the continuation of the trial of Vojislav Seselj, so at 10:00 p.m. turn on the TVs to monitor the transmission. So that's our situation. What kind of story is forming? You'll see the New Year's program, it'll probably be dedicated to the SRS. The New Year's programme is so formed that it's all the fault of the SRS, as if it's sitting in the government, so it's supposed to play St. Sava, to reconcile ministers who don't talk. It's like we're supposed to be sitting in the Department of Defense, and we're supposed to be calming Ponosh and the Shutanovite. It's our fault. We blame if it snows, blames me if the vault is empty. We in the SRS are to blame if people get fired. It's always our fault. How can it be explained to the citizens that, as in this paper, the victim is being made a villain, and the attackers are being made a victim, that manipulation is being exposed to all of us from the SRS? The system can't work. On all possible combinations, they're making all kinds of ceramics and gymnastics to put together these 126, but it can't possibly be with radicals. Persistent, obstructing radicals, crumbling, leading the country to ruin. There are no agenda points where the negative results of the eight-year rule and the wrong policy are not seen. The wrong policy, which did not put Serbia, citizens of Serbia first, but someone there abroad, their interests, their standards, their demands. There's a basic problem. Of course, it seems very funny when Dragoljub Micunovic from this pay phone says - we invite citizens to solidarity. What solidarity? Who do you want them to solidify with? With poor Mladjan Dinkic? With even poorer Bozidar Djelic? With Dragan Gilas, who does what through these newspapers? I don't need to get into internal relations and those DS factions. I've told you that a few times already. That's what you guys do there as you know. Clean it up yourself at closed and open sessions, it's an internal problem. There's no need for me to interfere. For us from the SRS, the ideology of some party and the policy that this party carries is important, and whether Pera, Mika, Laza, that's your internal matter. You crossed that line, so it was much more important to you whether Mika, Laza or Zumbul was in the SRS. The citizens must understand, we have used this space these few days, because if this space hadn't been there, there would have been no way of letting you know where this government is going. It's not offensive, but it's a very appropriate word -- it's shrub, it's blindly going, it's going into an ambis, and it's trying to prove that you don't do anything with Serbian radicals. That's where you made another mental mistake. That amount of false promises, unfulfilled promises, that collision with the reality that every citizen of ours experiences in the morning when he wakes up, when he goes to the market, to the store, to his place of work, when the kids go to school, that collision with the reality that falls away from what your message is, inevitably leads to sobering. People have to get out of depression. They need citizens to believe something, but not in empty illusions -- "Fiat", free action, an agreement, all some signatures when elections are ahead of elections. Here's epochal, what do you think, and then a series of newspaper articles starts, it's a genius thing, it's a mag, it's pulling Serbia out. Serbia will be the leader in the Balkans, so Serbia first, so Serbia law, then move on. And you don't even know where your country's borders are. It's not good this way before December 31st to use some perhaps stronger words, some stronger artillery, we've explained enough these days what this is about and what manipulation is about. The SRS has not been responsible for what has been happening in Serbia since 20 October 2000. As far as we from the SRS are concerned about this cold and that snow from a few days ago, we're even as guilty of this state in the country. You know who's guilty, DOS, in any aggregate condition. I have a legitimate right to invite citizens to think as long as we can live in this virtual reality and enjoy lies, false promises. Ideally, fine, experts, clubs are opening, Belgrade is the centre of the world, and the vault is empty. Here, it's due to the vets, the tolls, the builders, the pensioners, the soldiers. It's all over the place. How do they eat that kind of money from privatisation? How do you eat that kind of credit from abroad? The 6.5 billion you said in 2000 are on the border, just waiting for Milosevic to move into the country. Where are they, why aren't they coming in? There's no Milosevic, and they killed him too? Take care, because you don't have a good driver's license for this category of vehicle called the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11944	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 3 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11945	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, I do not understand why this much dust has been raised in the public and in the government itself around this budget. He's not too bad, he's only got two small problems. The first is that this draft budget arrived only from 47 days late in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that is not a big deal, you will agree. I'm a little surprised by the comments of the president of the National Assembly. It is quite understandable her wish, as we want one budget to be adopted in the current year for next year, but she accepts all responsibility to be at the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and absolutely none. I wonder if in these 47 days she's been late for at least once, she's officially asked the Prime Minister to ask for an explanation as to why she's late for this budget. The second little reason is that this budget is no good. The amendments submitted by all political parties are evidence. She didn't take LDP, but my colleague, Marash, was so keenly defending some amendments that he was at risk of getting hurt at work, you remember those lasers and everything. Therefore, we really don't need to raise that much dust, but we need to give an answer who's to blame for what we're thinking today whether or not the budget will be adopted, and as only the president of the National Assembly and the prime minister say, I am optimistic and I think it will be adopted. Is that enough? You need to give a clear and simple answer to who's to blame. The government of the Republic of Serbia is to blame. In the government of the Republic of Serbia, there are ministers, who would not behave that way if they were in the governments of some other states and they were sitting, unfortunately, there are fewer of them, who are trying to do something. Given the strength of those who do not work in the interests of their country, they are powerless. The question has been raised here who can comment on agriculture as well, so someone came from the fact that all the MPs who talk about it should be graduate farmers, so if they want to talk about fruit growing, they're professional. No, we're talking about what the citizens are telling us, what we're confident about on the spot, even though I'm a graduate lawyer, I'm going to talk responsibly about a topic where the state consciously, actually one of its ministers has exhibited himself as such at this point and wants to destroy an industrial culture. Mrs Dragutinovic, you will be an adequate talker to me for one part of my amendment, and the other part in your place would be much more suited to me by the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Dragin. Serbia has some problems and problems with these agriculture ministers, which I think everyone thinks milk is made in dairy. People, we need to prepare ourselves for certain areas, so someone here told us that it was populist at first, when we commented on our first amendment, we don't remove any of the institutions you've established, in the sense that we say that we buy and transfer all the funds from here to the Ministry of Agriculture. We've challenged the many agencies you've proposed to us here. If you have already established them, we want them to be controlled and that their work contributes to a better life for Serbian citizens. We are able to see that the funds you define for such agencies or other state institutions are too large in relation to the effects that they directly give to their existence, and the need for significantly greater funds to be allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture is high and high. When we said the funds were to be saved here, in the National Assembly, we didn't think MPs would lose any rights they already have, but we meant more effective work. He can be much more effective if the government does its job. Here's another certificate, the only culprit because we don't know whether it will be adopted or not, is the government of the Republic of Serbia. I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, Section 3, and I have proposed that the funds provided for the Staff Management Service, but relating to the services under contract, not for the salaries of employees in that service, not for the material costs but for what the service is under contract, and I have proposed that the amount be reduced by 37,329.000 and that this should be directed to division 14, function 420, classification 451, for funding funds for non-financial enterprises and organisations. Then that 37,329,000 would be directed to the Ministry of Agriculture. My colleagues, just to remind you, you may have forgotten, and some have not even participated in the adoption of the Civil Service Act, where the Staff Management Service was established. What's being financed from these services by contract? Administrative services, computer maintenance services, the creation of appropriate software, education and training services for employees, audit services, legal services, pay attention - legal services, as well as services for representing some new persons, also funds for ministerial advisers and funds provided for services under contract are 42,329.000 dinars. These are only the funds for services directed at the Staff Management Service, and the total funds for the State Auditing Institution are 47,317,000 dinars, meaning five million more total funds for the functioning of the State Auditing Institution that employs 87, this is planned, and here are 50 employees in the Staff Management Office. The question is, what is this staff management service doing or what is it supposed to do? To call internal and public competitions for filling out jobs, such as civil servants, tenants and others, and you remember that we recently had the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants and that so far since 318 civil servants, how long it was supposed to be filled out, was about 50 alone. Is this service doing its job the way it's supposed to be? It certainly doesn't work, but it's not just a problem with the service, it's also a problem with internal agreements on who will be in the workplace and whose assistants, secretaries in the ministries and the like. The government's explanation for why this amendment is not accepted, so I'm not going to read it now so it won't take my time, but it's said, if these funds were reduced, then the body to which it relates would not be able to perform its function. It's aproximate. It's a relative estimate of how much resources it can do. This is the answer as if I asked them not to be assigned anything, as if neither the funds were intended for wages nor other material costs. So that's one thing to say, not to say, a nebulous explanation, but an explanation that no one can lively be satisfied with. A statement by Agriculture Minister Sasa Dragina that there should be a suspension of the premiums for tobacco production in Serbia has upset about 8,000 people who are directly engaged in tobacco production and has upset five businesses in Serbia that are engaged in the production and purchase of raw tobacco, and there were just a few of them, just to remind you, until recently 23. A company like "Bajinovac" from Bajina Basta, which has a centuries-old tradition in the production and purchase of tobacco, has ceased to exist, remains "Duvan Ljubovija", DI in Bujanovac, Choka, "Tabex" from Sremska Mitrovica and "Kopeks" from Novi Sad and perhaps another company. Remember what the finance minister, your colleague Djelic, said at the sale of DIN in 2003: since Philip Morris buys a cigarette factory in Nis, we will produce 5,000 tonnes on an annual level of tobacco, and we used to produce 30,000 tonnes a year, and in 2003, the DIN production of tobacco was 5,000 tonnes, he said, we will raise it to 15,000 tonnes and here is a perspective for the development of the tobacco industry. However, it was nothing. The plant for the production of "Philip Morris" cigarettes in Nis deals only with the production of cigarettes, and the processing and cultivation of tobacco is not. What's the problem? There's a problem. In 2006, it passed a law that abolished the mandatory purchase of tobacco, and for a kilo of cigarettes it took 800 grams of tobacco and projected 40% that it had to be from domestic production, and now there is no more obligation. Why do I insist on this part, and I think Minister Sasa Dragin has only taken an interest in other ministers, and they are now rubbing their hands and seeing their chance to produce tobacco? Because what it takes to produce wheat is 70 times more necessary to produce tobacco, and about and financial effects are so much more. I agree with the effort to fight for a healthy life, but we cannot destroy domestic tobacco production and encourage and protect foreign cigarette manufacturers. Thirty times as many cigarettes are protected as domestic tobacco. If tobacco production premiums are abolished, Serbia will stop production, as all those countries that do not have a tobacco production premium on the old continent or in Europe do not have tobacco production. What else does it matter to us not to destroy domestic tobacco production? Well, because 31.9 million tobacco imports were paid in 2007, and $34.4m cigarettes, which is a significant trade deficit. We have fantasticly good natural assumptions for tobacco production, because we know that tobacco is in Machva, Srem, Banat, Pcinjski district, in Azukovica, in the vicinity of Ub, that we have fantastic preconditions for tobacco production. We've destroyed and we're slowly destroying the production of raspberries and blackberries, so to speak. The red gold, the plum production is also being destroyed, the stock fund is in catastrophic condition, let's do the tobacco now. I advocate education in reducing smoking, not having sex where at this point it creates good financial effects and the cheapest job is in the production of raw tobacco, but it continues to mean that we are educated to reduce smoking or that some would not even start. The country's negative attitude is through the present premium, which was, and the citizens of Serbia, entering the EU, provided everyone wants to be honest and to drag in that direction, will not be so easy and simple. The average premium per kilogram of tobacco in Serbia is 40 euros, and in the EU is two euros and 90 cents, and the price of tobacco in Serbia is 1.94 euros, and in the EU is 3.46 euros. But there's a big difference in ransom. We pay a ransom price of 1.54 euros, and in the EU it is 0.56. These five companies, which I said were still in tobacco production, invested around 20m euros in machines, in re-promaterials, and that is neither physically nor technically done yet, and threatens to stop the tobacco production at all. And what kind of relationship the Minister of Agriculture has with the Association for Agriculture, Food Industry, the tobacco industry and the water industry, is that we addressed him on 15 September 2008, to receive them. He didn't do it until today, and I remember he was carrying a bag on some council boards, taking pictures. I don't think it leads Serbia forward, but the attitude towards agriculture that the SRS shows, by explaining its amendments, is true and true. These amendments we have submitted should be accepted. Some of the positions are not large funds that we propose to transfer to the Ministry of Agriculture, because they simply could not be singled out anymore, some of them are slightly more significant, but overall everything we have proposed would mean a lot for agricultural production and would mean sustainable development of agriculture and villages, and a quality and proper attitude of the country towards the village, because we will have problems if today, too late today, we do not pay sufficient and serious attention to agricultural production and the village, and then we will not be able to expect a solution to a series of problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11946	Anyone else want a word? National MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11947	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has not submitted amendments to this budget, and all for reasons to speed up the budget process, in order to make the work more efficient, not for us to advertise our participatory programme. However, this does not mean that LDP supports such a budget. We understand that the economic crisis is in place. We understand that there is also a domestic crisis, so if we have these two crises, it is normal for the budget to be restrictive and we agree. There is one problem because this crisis and this biggest problem is that the development of our industry, agriculture, therefore the economy, is not evenly deployed. The crisis literally shifts to the citizens themselves, shifts to those direct producers, shifts to the economy. I would especially now refer to the problem of our agriculture, because agriculture is the first to be hit as far as these restrictions are concerned, as far as savings are concerned. For some reasons, it is agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, which gets a full seven billion less for 2009 compared to 2008. What does that mean? This means that the index 74 is, therefore, the lowest index in terms of growth in the budget, i.e. budgets compared to other budget users. So 25% are reducing funds for agriculture. When the reasoning given in this budget is read, which is all the plans and which is the programme regarding this agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, and the development of agrarians and rural development, etc., then it becomes very strange that the Ministry of Agriculture received 25% less funding for 2009 compared to 2008. Namely, the plans and programmes are set out in the following, this is the government's explanation. According to the agrarian budget, the funds are intended to realise the scales of agrarian policy, with the following objectives of agricultural development in Serbia: building a sustainable and efficient agricultural sector that can compete on the world market, providing food, providing support for living standards for people who depend on agriculture and are unable to monitor economic reforms by their development, providing support for sustainable rural development, preserving the environment, preparing Serbia's agriculture for EU integration. It's a very nice wish, but I think these beautiful desires have one flaw. The deficit in these 25% reduction in the amount of funds allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture. It was lost in view of the fact that 75% of Serbia's population is directly dependent on agriculture, whether in this way agriculture is a way of earning income or by direct help from country relatives and doping home budgets to people who are not capable, are unable for various reasons to earn money by working on these home budgets. If all of this is considered, then the question is, why is agriculture in such a situation, why is it always the last thing about a wish list, why is agriculture training strictness and trying to save something. I haven't found an answer to that, but in this budget I found, let's say, one piece of information that 14 billion dinars are provided for in the name of help, and contributions and everything else, for Kragujevac and Fiat, and that the Ministry of Agriculture is intended for the entire 19 billion dinars. So, the difference is five billion dinars when the Fiat is considered and the entire Ministry of Agriculture is considered. The Ministry of Agriculture is projected 2.7% of the total budget fees, and it is expected to work, earn all this here too, and this is beautifully written in the government's explanation of why the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management is important for this country. So, when all of this is considered, we get one strange situation, too many wishes, funds minor, small, especially when it comes to the government's debt to farmers' subsidies of 9 billion dinars, that 5 billion dinars of debt were created for a variety of reasons, which makes up 14 billion dinars, and we saw that 19 billion dinars were foreseen for this ministry. It is forgotten that subsidies are very important for the agricultural producer to be kept on the surface, therefore, not to be enriched, but to be kept on the surface so that it does not simply fail. In Vojvodina as of January this year, 20% of the livestock fund has simply disappeared, and it disappeared for that reason because it has become completely economically unwarranted to deal with livestock in Vojvodina. It takes you five years to rebuild the stock fund. With this pace of destroying this livestock and livestock stock, we will be in a situation that very soon we will not have that cattle, which is still a criterion for the development of agriculture or livestock. It's the big cattle that represent the scale. By reducing this large livestock, or stock, we are in a situation that agriculture is significantly at risk. In the light of this budget, I have also found that the so-called the reallocation of subsidies from price support to investment support. It's all very nice again when it's written and read quite satisfactorily. But what does that mean? This means that literally subsidies are being reduced, and gradually and abolished, and that is otherwise said in the government's explanation for this budget. It is said, for example, that it is not necessary to fully abolish subsidies, but rather to bring them down to symbolic givings as a transitional solution to their total abolition in the coming years. Perfect. What does that mean? This means that, for example, the agricultural producer in Europe has three types of milk subsidies, has a national subsidy, has a European subsidy, has an export subsidy, and, for example, its products, such as milk, can sell on our market at dumped prices, because its country is in the interest of speeding up production, even if the result of that production has been sold at dumped prices. If we really intend to enter the EU, if we really intend to unilaterally apply a temporary trade agreement, we literally bring our agricultural producer into a situation not to be competitive, but to forget agricultural production, because with such conditions, with reduced subsidies, with the tendency to completely and completely disappear, he cannot compete with a European agricultural producer who makes his goods from these three dumped subsidies. So obviously, we intend to save very well on agriculture, but if we continue to do so, we can get into a situation so that until we get used to the horse not to eat at the end that horse dies because it can't live without food. If we get used to our agriculture working without any state aid, without significant subsidies, in such a situation as it is now, this agriculture could literally disappear, that there is no real basis for the existence of that agricultural producer. Unfortunately, we do not see a tendency to change this situation, unfortunately the savings are started from agriculture. It's started by something that represents an Alpha and an omega of life in this country, because we can live without much, we can survive without culture, and without sports and without others, but food is the one that matters, which gives existence. But unfortunately, we keep forgetting that, and we're used to farmers being resourceful, working often and at their own expense, so it doesn't matter, we'll let monopolies, we'll let one of the nasaradic privatizations sell one of the monopolies, we'll let that monopolies buy the milk at which he wants to buy it, we'll let him determine the quality of the milk that's being bought out, and then we'll finally ask that milk manufacturer, the milkman, come on, give up some of your profit for the peace in the house, for the sake of reducing the milk prices. What is this way for the minister to address producers, and then the manufacturers say, well, come on, we'll cut the price of milk, but we'll cut the price of milk, so eventually the price of all that will be paid by the one who produces, not the one holding the monopoly. We know there's a monopoly in the production of milk in Vojvodina. Therefore, I still don't understand why it is envisaged that all of those users who were in some privileged position last year as governments and budgets remain at the same level, remain with the same means or even increased, and it is only agriculture that can tighten the belt, and it is a restrictive budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11948	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 3 and 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(6) of the Budgetary System Act. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11949	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, the DSS has, at all times, been trying to make amendments, which it has submitted to certain members of the draft budget law, affect any improvement in such a bad draft budget. We are pleased that certain amendments from the DSS MPs have been accepted and that, to some extent, they will improve at least the lives of citizens, and above all, I am referring to the amendment of the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Milos Aligrudic, which in some ways allows local self-government to get more funding, which will in some way facilitate the setting and even the ambience in which these local self-governments live and exist. The objective of this amendment, which I have submitted to Article 5, divided the 3 - Office for Media Cooperation, Chapter 3.7, Function 110, amount of 71,33,000, is to change the amount of zero, and to transfer the funds to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, function 40, family and children, economic classification of 472 - social security benefits from the budget, is primarily to show how wasteful this government is. In an explanation of a previous amendment, I have pointed to only one part of that government, how much money they spend. First of all, I was referring to the prime minister, vice presidents, the secretary general and the respective offices, as well as the president of the Republic of Serbia, that it was huge money of three billion and 932 million, which was dedicated only to these numbers. That's the money that comes from taxpayers, from citizens. When there were stories about budget rebalancing, then I gave an amendment that I asked to reduce services under contract right in the Office for Media Cooperation by about five million and 735 thousand dinars. That's when I got an explanation that it's a small money, a small amount of money that won't significantly affect the improvement of the conditions of the socially endangered. When I say socially endangered, I mean families with children first. For someone, it's not a small amount of money, but for many families in Serbia and 5,000 dinars of some social aid would be welcome, as they could currently solve the biggest problems they face. I don't know if you know how many citizens in Serbia who aren't able to pay for electricity these days, buy heat, buy their children anything before New Year's and Christmas holidays, unlike some who have a lot of hearing about those who live in extremely difficult conditions. We are having a debate on the budget at times when we have a large number of citizens, workers, veterans, socially endangered, and this morning when you came to the Assembly you saw citizens standing in front of the Assembly, many of these difficult weather conditions stand in front of the government building and expect someone to take them in, listen to the bar, and their full right is to ask for their problems to be solved. This government is definitely a bad government. This is the government that was made on the basis of rotten compromises, failed promises they made in pre-election programmes and on myths held throughout Serbia, a conceptually different government, a government in which a political group, which is a vast number of people, pensioners with about a million and 700 thousand, has promised 70% pension increases. This is the government that sits in one political party of G17, which has deceived citizens into getting free action, and even some data suggest that five million people stood in line and waited to sign up to exercise their right and receive 1,000-euro shares. What is the essence of this press co-operation office? It is precisely that through payments and through their activities, through special agencies with which they work well, which are related to co-operation with radio and television houses, with print media, we show a very different picture of Serbia, virtual Serbia, where everything the government is doing is doing well, and we, the MPs who have chosen citizens here, are doing the opposite to the interests of citizens, because we are, according to their representations, a black spot in the process of European integration and everything that leads to the better lives of citizens. It is the right of MPs to try to change certain laws that create the lives of Serbian citizens, because Serbian citizens with the right, both from the ruling coalition and from opposition parties, expect us to work first and bring such laws that are in the interest of all of them. The government is unequal, there's no clear economic program. This year, which is at the outset, shows that there have been unrealistic projections that we have criticised in budget rebalancing, that we will not have budget implementation in that planned amount that you have drawn and explained here to the MPs, and especially to the citizens, because we are going to have a non-execution of total revenues for some 30 billion. We have a large number of socially endangered people. Today before the New Year, many budget users will not be able to receive salaries, and the same is the situation with a large number of workers working in certain economic entities. This is also the situation in a large number of local self-governments, as all of what the government does badly reflects on local self-government - the increase in the price of life supplies, the increase in gas prices by 60%, the increase in telephone subscription of around 300%, and as a New Year's card to citizens, it also arrived that the price of the 1 January impulse will rise by 33%. The increase in credit prices, I have repeatedly talked here about the reference interest rate of 17.75% and which largely creates the life and work of all economic operators, because it affects the increase in the price of capital and the price of the loans they take and owe to banks, creates one additional danger that a large number of economic operators cannot settle their obligations, can't work - so it fires workers or breaks that credit price to the price of the product. The middle course is 87.68 today. We had that in only three last months, about 700m euros was sold "to defend the course", and in essence -- it was a strategy to pour the money from privatisation into the pockets of importers, tycoons, those who could only buy those foreign exchanges. An ordinary citizen, if we were to do one analysis now -- citizens couldn't buy more than a million, up to a million and 200,000 euros a day. It's some kind of optimistic projection. Everything else was pouring into the tycoon and the import lobby. The decline in production by 6%, the conflicts in the government itself, as shown by the oil-gas agreement, the deviation or decommissioning of certain ministers, above all I mean Minister Dinkic, then even failed and contractual obligations signed with workers, trade unions over the extended fact of the General Collective Treaty, shows how much this government has morals at all -- has no clear concept, is ready to deceive Serbian citizens. A new year, Serbian citizens will wait with great uncertainty, as the VAT projection for the next year of 338 billion is unreal, unreal. Governor Radomir Jelasic said just a few days ago that we are expected to be audited in April. It's immoral and this government, and it's immoral and this assembly majority, because for everything it wants to put the blame on opposition parties, which point to a poor budget projection and everything that you do is bad. (President: Time. ) We have every right to point out these mistakes to you and try to propose laws and amendments to improve these laws as much as possible and to allow citizens to live a little better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11950	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11951	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, in section 3 - Media Cooperation Office, function 110, amounting to 71 million 323 thousand dinars is changing by zero. So it's proposed to cancel. In section 19 - the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the function of 40 families and children, the economic classification of 472, the social protection fee, the amount of 27 billion and 600 million is changed by the amount, so the one added from the previous position, and that is 27 billion and 671 million 323 thousand dinars. Madam Minister, for days as opposition MPs, we have been trying to show you that the draft of this budget law is one of the most imperfect acts, aware of the fact that many legislative regulations are as imperfect as such, but that is why we submit amendments in order to sort of try to correct everything that is not good in these drafts of the law. So the draft budget law is not good and needs to be corrected. The purpose of this amendment is, in some ways, to make a correction only in one economic classification and to try to make budget users, which is from the economic function of 40 families and children, to allocate this amount provided for the Office for Media Cooperation. With all due respect to all the employees in this press co-operation office, we find this amount truly inappropriate and unnecessary. There are so many other ways to make the media available to Serbian citizens, it is quite appropriate for this amount to be transferred to this economic function of 40 families and children. This economic function, therefore, has to be given special attention to the economic function of 40 families and children. One of the characteristics of neoliberalism is that in fact, the less attention is being paid to the heart of large multi-communities, with the goal of making the rich more richer and the poor more and more poor. It's just that we're losing the value of our family in that real original sense, in what kind of family it should be and what it's been like in Serbia for centuries. So, in the protection of families and children, and through an increase in the amount for this economic classification, I see exactly the essence of this amendment, which is because of the mass layoff from work, where we have a situation where so many workers from our factories and businesses have been fired so far, that this is announced in this year 2009, when the economic crisis in Serbia, as well as in other countries, may reach their maximum. Then, due to small personal incomes, as well as the increasing presence of many vices in children, this economic classification needs to be paid as much attention as possible. Another category that is not in this amendment, which should also be given special attention, which has been the subject of many amendments so far, are agricultural producers who have indeed become a social category lately. There are a lot of amendments trying to fix this. I can let you know and remind you that in 2008, the World Food Production Organization declared 2008 a year of potatoes as a strategic product. I'll tell you that in the area of Moravia County, from which I come, there are thousands of tons of unsold mercantile potatoes at this point. Unsold because no one wants to pay attention to this problem. Let me tell you that in 2000, the EU is by its decision No. 29/2000 banned imports of this product from Serbia and until today the ban on imports is valid. No one remembered asking the EU to cancel the decision, does. I can tell you that every year from the EU we import about 400 to 500 tonnes of elite category seed potatoes. For that imports, Serbia is giving more than threem euros. Next, to remind you of the days of Moravia County territory in Guca, there is a Potato Center. It's a state-owned company with 100 percent state-owned property. What's going on? All the information from this Potato Center has been abolished and transferred to Nis, although Nis may be talked about the production of many other products there, but we all know that this part of Western Serbia and Moravia County is God's day for the production of potatoes. Here you can see an absolute carelessness, perhaps a tenor. Maybe the ones who did it don't know if it was potatoes or vegetables, so maybe they did it out of ignorance. Is that what you care about our farm? Absolutely not, and I can tell you that this Potato Centre once produced these elite potatoes, for which imports are given about three million euros a year, once produced on the mountain of Golia, however, there is no more. It's important that the import lobby is satisfied, and for everything else it doesn't matter. There are many reasons why this and this budget projection need to be corrected, to try to correct it, because if the costs are higher than the revenues, then there are minuses. These minuses can be covered in two ways, which is by taking new loans and selling assets. As regards the taking of new loans, it should be extremely rigorous in the use of these loans, it is necessary to reduce general consumption and ensure strictly targeted use of these credits. Malten, every euro should be known for its purpose. By selling your assets, you try to fly those assets through the budget and thus correct the system that creates the minuses. Every year new minuses are created. The sale of property covers these new minuses. But it can't go any further either. What's going to happen at the moment when those minuses can't be covered from the sale of property, and soon it will be. You know there are so few large systems and large public enterprises left that can still be sold. There's a bankruptcy in that moment. The state is in front of bankruptcy, and it should finally be said to the branches, it should be prepared for citizens that this is the situation, one complete national strategy for the survival of society, not to scare people, but to make a survival strategy and to predict all of this in that strategy. Our experts' statements are moving in such a large range. Some say that this economic crisis will bypass us, others that it will only touch us a little, to those extremely nebulous statements, that this economic crisis, which is on the threshold and which has already come, will benefit us. The specific segment of this budget is its spending. Special chapter, the special story in all of this is budget spending. That's because you're working on that system here-- everything that cat sauces, that mouse hunts. Translated, wherever you get close to money, you get it, be it public enterprises, be it boards of directors, be it some agencies, etc. It's not said for nothing to be a bad old patient about yourself if you're a doctor for an heir. It seems that the people of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, took care of themselves, when they designated you as those of the authorities, but what is there. There are two things here that are basic and you have to take care of, you who hold all the levers of power in your hands. The first thing is to cut and cut costs to the smallest possible extent, start from the most large things and unnecessary, and get to the smallest things. This is where we should behave like our old man used to act. I'm sure many of you, if not all of you, know how old our old man used to go after us and turn off a light bulb that burns unnecessarily. Such savings, such consumption should be established now, but established by state-owned operators, not by ordinary people, not by those poor ones. What's going on today? Doctors of science, masters, students of prestigious world colleges, sell out what their ancestors have been creating for years. Have they ever wondered where our children and their children will work from now on? Whose factories are they going to work at? Will there be slaves in those factories? These are the questions they need to ask and to which Serbian citizens are looking for an answer. The governor of the NBS on December 7th gave an interview published under the title - The crisis has not yet arrived in Serbia. In Mrs. Minister's exposé, we saw that the crisis had arrived much earlier than we thought. Let's not forget that this same governor sold over 700m euros to cut the exchange rate. However, since 7 August, when the exchange rate was the lowest compared to the dinar, when it was over 75 dinars, to this day when it was 88 and over 88 dinars and reached 94 dinars, more than 700m euros were spent to calm the exchange rate. It is normal for the governor not to mind anything, it is not affected by what is happening on the foreign exchange market of Serbia, we also know about some of its affairs and 180 square-square houses, whose price is 5,000 euros per square metre, pay 11 acres, pay 150,000 euros, etc. It's just that this doesn't touch him. The other thing to insist on is a sense of guilt and a sense of personal responsibility. So there's one saying that a man who's aware of his guilt thinks he's the only one he's talking about. Karadzic, a wolf, translated it like this - a hive was missing in the village. He gathers the villagers and says, "I know who stole the hive." The hive was stolen by the bee on his head. The one with the guilt I'm talking about waves his hand off to drive the bee away and so gives himself away. This story applies to those who have this guilt, who have a sense of responsibility. She obviously doesn't apply to you. I can say one more thing, that you're very drawn to the sense of money, the sense of power, but believe me, all of you who have that sense of money and the sense of power need to know about a fine epitaph standing on Alexander the Great's grave. He says, "This grave is enough for one who hasn't had enough of the whole world." The great conqueror, the world's greatest conqueror, was six feet [2 m] without a geometer, as they say. That's the point. So, all of you who have this great sense of money, the sense of power, the feeling of stealing, the feeling of kidnapping, the feeling of betrayal, you need to think deeply of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11952	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has withdrawn the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure in this morning's session and has applied for an extraordinary session. I put this proposal on the agenda by acting on their request and making an appointment, based on Article 166. Rules of Procedure, Sixth extraordinary session for 30.12.2008, starting at 12.00 hours, with the following agenda: Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act. The assembly and bill of law has been delivered to your MPs' clubs. The government has done, I'm informing you, and I'm acting on the government's request. On Article 5, sections 3 and 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Nikola Savic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Milovan Radovanovic submitted an amendment to the draft budget law on his 5th article, divided Chapter 3.5, function 110, which refers to the economic classification of 423 - contracted services, where in columns 6 and 8 the amount of 12 million 480 thousand is replaced by a new amount of two million and 480 thousand. This amendment also requires that the funds saved in this way be rerouted to the economic classification of 464, grants to compulsory social insurance organisations, so that these amounts will be increased by this amount reduced in this previous classification. The SRS considers that the amounts provided for under the contract should be reduced and, as I have already provided here in part and suggested, the amounts should be referred, directed towards the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, above all to meet the obligations of the Social and Pension Insurance Fund. For what? Unfortunately, we all know that this country is full of poor people, wherever we turn around, are poor citizens, and one of the categories that is poorest and most endangered, we all know that well, are pensioners. These increases in the last few months that pensioners received, totalling somewhere between 12% and 30%, simply melted, because we know that only in that period the dinar rate compared to the euro fell by 20%, so these increases were eaten even before the pensioners put that money in their pocket. Pensioners don't wait for anything good in 2009. The prime minister and government themselves said that in 2009, pensioners can't expect an increase in pensions, and maybe it's correct from the government to finally tell them the truth, unlike the pre-election campaign when they said this was going to be a socially responsible government, that pensions would be 70% of the average salary, but we can see that there's none of it now. So, these services under contract, we know, together with public procurement, are the most suitable terrain for various manipulations and terrains where corruption is possible. That is why it is no coincidence that in all budget items where services are provided by the contract and there are almost anywhere in the budget, the government provides maximum amounts for these items. The SRS therefore considers these amounts to be reduced. We said that we could literally submit only one amendment to all services per contract, if that would be commercially possible, that these services under contract should be reduced by at least 50% of those amounts. Because these manipulations that give these items -- contracts and public procurement services, they pour citizens' money into the pockets of individuals, because that's how people and rich, and that's how tycoons are made, given to the management of state property and uncontrollably they turn that money into their own pockets. Although this amendment requires funds, above all, to be directed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and directed towards the Pension and Social Insurance Fund, there is also poverty in all other places. Today, many Serbian families, four members and multi-members, are in such a state that no family member has any permanent income. Especially in southern Serbia, where I come from, from Nis. As we can see, there's an economic crisis at work. It is already thundering and more powerful than we are, and yet I mentioned the prime minister and the government, they announce that in 2009, many more people will be out of work and many will live harder than they are now living. Repeat, you should go to maximum savings wherever possible, and these services under contract are items that can be reduced and in this case be directed towards the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In some previous amendments, not to mention, we saw agriculture, because we know that our agriculture still succeeded in the most difficult situations to maintain this country and to prevent, if nothing else, even hunger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11954	Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I think the vast majority of the amendments submitted to Article 5. In principle, the bill expresses one reserve according to these two positions, which is contract services and specialised services, not according to them, but according to the way they are spent, the way they should be spent in the following year, I suppose, to be spent. Experiences are different. You have those who have had the opportunity to create a budget from the local to this highest level, to participate in their projections, in their spending. Not to say whether I was lucky or unhappy to do the same thing, let's say in the municipalities I come from, as president of the Assembly, I designed several budgets, participated in designing and spending money. Let's say, in the community, where I had the opportunity to decide in some way, and the services by contract and specialized services were spent on very rational things. We, for example, spent our services on payment or specialised services, money with those items on payment of services that we had under technical or business-technical agreements with universities in Belgrade and universities in Nis. So the project documentation, the planning documentation of the Faculty of Agriculture, the Architectural Faculty, the construction colleges, we paid from those positions. Then it shows the full meaning of these positions, and services by contract and specialized services. There are other examples where irresponsible individuals, on the basis of which, unfortunately, there is an impression of the entire government and of all agencies, or directorates, or organisations operating under the auspices of the government, on which some very bad, very radical impressions are obtained. And that's not only your government's problem, it's the problem of a large number of governments both with us and outside, especially in the last eight years. You see, there are many agencies that objectively represent narrow throats, agencies that in no way justify the meaning of their existence or the sense of spending of the money that is being allocated to them from the budget, which collects citizens of our country for the budget. One such agency is certainly the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, and I think that this example that I will now point out to you and the way they treat and behave is certainly an indicator of why the MPs of the opposition, and besides, citizens, point out one reserve according to this position, contract services, specialised services, or how some segments of the state administration for which money is allocated from the budget, i.e. from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, function badly. For example, in the municipality from which I came in 2006, we submitted a project relating to the tourist infrastructure of our municipality and the value of this project was about 24 million. He was divided into three stages. The first phase was eight million and was even signed with the ministry for its implementation and implementation. A house under the protection of the State was to be purchased for the needs of the municipality. It is very important, it was an expression of Serbian classicalism in the architectural sense, and I think that the support of the state to bring the project to an end was in principle only in the interest of the state, because the property of the state would increase. Of course, the proceeds of the ownership of these assets would certainly be welcome for the state and for the years ahead. The interest in ending this has certainly been shown by some government and non-governmental agencies operating in the area. For such a project we also received support from regional chambers of commerce in Leskovac and the Centre for Regional Development of the Jablanic and Pcinj County. The ministry has accepted the project, even signed a contract with the ministry, I repeat. When all the paperwork was made, everything passed to the Property Directorate, that's where it all stopped. From that day on, so from 2006 to the day today, the Property Directorate did not find it appropriate, not to respond negatively, in no way did she find it appropriate to react accordingly. It is not the only example in Serbia, it is not the only example in the municipality I come from, especially when it comes to the Property Directorate. That's how they justify the money that's defined for them. You've defined 800 million dinars in this agency budget. Out of the 800 million, 30 million will go to contract service. They predicted their spending for the next year in five paragraphs, halfway to the budget that is ahead of us. That, and all the amendments that are today and these days ahead of you, must certainly be your motive as much as you can, and that's what you can do, to get all the ministries to define their budgets as programming. This has so far succeeded in several ministries, according to that pilot project, I assume you know what this is about, and your ministry has insisted on it. For example, compare the budget of the Ministry of Defense and the Property Directorate. I do not compare the amounts, but as presented, in which money will be spent by the Property Directorate, and on what money will be spent by the Ministry of Defence. So there's something you can do and take advantage of your position, your professional qualities, and make the ministries define their budgets as programming. That in perspective, if you're in the perspective of writing another budget, I don't know, we'll see, free you from these amendments to the greatest extent. Look, everything that's bad and comes from the field of service according to contract and specialized services, it won't even be possible to absorb the programming budgets, I think you'll agree with me, but to the greatest extent you'll spare the government of these amendments and these sharp and fierce criticisms. Therefore, Madam Minister, it might not be bad for you to accept some amendments, they are meaningful and rational, and if not, let them at least be a science for you to make a completely different concept of budgets that you will send to the Assembly for adoption in perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11956	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 3 and 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 3 and 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 3, 21, 22 and 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Zlata Djeric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable chairman, Ms. Minister, the New Serbia parliamentary group, and ahead of it Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, has submitted this amendment that has two parts. One section refers to the reduction of funds in the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, the economic classification of 423, the contract-based services, where we have provided for the amendment to reduce the funds by 12 million, and to add these funds to that item that we have sincerely and spiritually represented in the last few months, i.e. to add to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, classification 511, buildings and construction facilities, so to focus funds on facilities intended for disabled persons. I think we've been very clear about that amendment before. We have received great support, and this support, which we have received from various organisations of persons with special needs, has obliged us to continue in this request and in this task, so that our amendment applies to it and I am surprised that there was no understanding for it, but in the course of the year, there is time, I think that some mistakes in the further work of the Government will certainly be corrected. The second part of the amendment concerns NIP funds, which are expected to allocate significant funds to build a fecal reactor in Nis, a fecal reactor in Kragujevac, to address the problem of pollution in Obrenovac and address the problem of environmental pollution in Bor. What we also received as a parliamentary group, as a suggestion from citizens of these municipalities and cities, is precisely to separate large and significant funds and pay particular attention to solving these problems. So this amendment from these two parts could at least be accepted in one piece, and I think my colleague Srdjan Spasojevic, who has just returned to the hall, will explain in more detail the intention of the New Serbia parliamentary group, and perhaps convince you to support us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11958	I thank Mrs. Djeric. Mr. Spasojevic, as a promoter, then Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the NS Parliament Club has submitted this amendment with the desire to address it in an absolutely correct way in order to accept and improve the budget. So, very often, we have real, concrete reasons, and many times we have managed to convince the government and the resolution ministers to accept these amendments. Of course, we have a big problem when it comes to budget rebalances, and I'm going to look back at it, Madam Minister, practically accepted that people with special needs are approved to build sports grounds for these people and to improve the quality of life of these people. Of course, I have to point out that you did very correctly when it came to all this, but we ran into a closed door, practically, at the Ministry of Sports, where they gave us some deadlines that weren't appropriate. It's December 12th. Of course, what we have succeeded in this assembly speaker, so NS MPs to convince the government and you to accept it, is not being met. So, our further intention will be, and in the future, we won't give up on that request, we want those 12 million, if they move to a new year, to go on purpose. Mr. President, I apologize. There's a lot of noise.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11960	Please allow us to hear Mr. Spasojevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please be quiet, you can't hear Mr. Spasojevic talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11961	So, to keep those 12 million people on purpose, so that these people don't get damaged. We all have a duty here to fix the quality of these people's lives. It's not that, Madam Minister, much to ask. We just want it to be realized. I think it's extremely correct, humane, well-intentioned, nothing tending, but to carry out what we agree on. Of course, I also have to look back at the fact that we did not provide for funding for sports organisations in the budget rebalancing. I will tell you very responsibly that many sports alliances in the country are at risk, in order for the people to say they are scrambling right now, because this is practically the first time that at the end of the year some things are not being fulfilled, which is what sports organisations have been counting on, and this is a sports dinar in budget rebalancing. A lot of people are in dubiosis right now. However, as we do, so will we. We're all proud when, after some big competitions, we gather in the squares, welcome our athletes with a handful of medals. In recent years, however, such things have been missing. Madam Minister, Serbia is famous in the world for athletes - volleyball players, basketball players and many other sports where we have given our people, our citizens Serbia, one confidence. Our athletes practically paid off this country through their results. But I'm saying, for the last five or six years, there's been no such results. I'll tell you that one day we can be guilty here, or the government, who doesn't think about athletes and sports organisations. It doesn't matter if we're a position or opposition, but we all love success, we like our country to be the first in the world, and if it wasn't for a tennis player who, in a way, manages to maintain that trend, I think we'd be slowly forgotten in the sports world. So, Madam Minister, a month and a half ago I attended the Youth and Sports Committee, where I warned the Minister of Sports, when it came to this rebalancing, we failed. I'll tell you something else, you need to establish good communication with the Minister of Sports, and with the Minister of Education, that one phenomenon in Serbia is urgently removed. To get athletes, we have to invest in them. The athletes don't come by accident. A athlete has been created in this country for years. I'll be very responsible to tell you, I'd like you to listen to me... (President: Gentlemen of Parliament, for the second time, please interrupt Mr. Spasojevic. ) Madam Minister, I have stopped by to tell you once again to make communication with the minister of education and the minister of sports that school halls in all Serbian cities are returning to children. So, what's my message? To get a good athlete, there must be original communication between sports clubs in one city, no matter which one, and the sports halls open for children. I'm going to set an example for the Kings, and I'm sure that's the case in all the other cities. It is unacceptable for children from these primary schools to pay certain amounts of money for renting sports halls of quiet schools in cities. So, if they get into the organization of a club, because it's too tight the halls of sports, because there's a lot of first-sellers, second-sellers, our kids in elementary schools get their appointments at 11:00, 12:00, one hour at night, and then they train. Many parents can't pay for what clubs are looking for, because they're looking to rent primary school halls to train children from those primary schools in those halls. We're making an absurd. There are a lot of parents who can't accept paying, and what we got. We have received that a child, who may be future Kicanovic, Slavnic, Divac or some football player or handball player, hiding a great talent, because their child cannot go to that training to be recognizable, may have been damaged at the beginning. We're not going to make children in the fourth, fifth and sixth grade one such situation as to make someone feel humiliated, to be denied something that, first of all, is the right of every man to try something. They can't just train rich kids. So they have to open primary schools for children and clubs, that there's no compensation. The state has to find the means to bear some expenses here. Once again, I ask you, on behalf of many parents from the Kingdom, and I am sure that such situations in Serbia are too much, that you react urgently and that the sports halls of primary schools for children, who are at clubs, are practically children of these schools, do not pay compensation for it. It's something everyone in the world would laugh at. Do we want children on the streets or channeled through sports organisations to be properly engaged, to get new athletes? When we do all this, I am sure that in a few years' time, the markets will again be filled with citizens of Serbia when they welcome athletes from major world competitions, Olympics, world and European championships. That's how you make a good athlete. So don't let the kids at the start be disabled, because parents can't pay some expenses that are totally ridiculous. As for the second part of the amendment, I think that the NS MPs really, in a very correct way, want NIP funds to end up channeled towards troubled cities. This is where we listed Nis, Kragujevac, Obrenovac and Bor. Please, how do you live in these cities? How do you live in Bora? The pollution is incredible. In Obrenovac? Here, Comrade Batic is here. We're looking for these citizens to improve the quality of their lives. Also, we're talking about fiats, we're talking about actions, we're talking about a lot of things, and in Kragujevac and Nis, there's fecal stuff running around town. We haven't established any healthy life in these cities, and we're talking big projects. Of course, there's a lot more to be said. We need to look at life's things, look at our citizens, worry about the real problems that Serbia is struggling with. Let's stop with some big promises. You put five million people in line to wait for something that might never come. We're having trouble filling the budget. Let's get this vehicle reregistered once, so that citizens of their country can legally turn one of their own on a moving matter into property. Please, a lot of things are a problem. Don't just deal with it, you from the ruling coalition, insurgency, insinuating your demands for cabinets, insinuating coalition agreements, let's get to the point. But, I'm afraid, I'm going to say one thing, when the government comes together this way, the people said it a long time ago, "a lot of midwives, squishy kids."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11962	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, we absolutely support Mr Srdjan Spasojevic's amendment from the NS parliamentary group, because he is one of the sjasets who are trying to better channel financial resources than was proposed by the government's solution. We have pointed out several times the fact that, to say the least, some suspicious privatisations are caused by this situation, but it is really unacceptable for such phenomena to continue to be tolerated, especially where we are most sensitive, where truly living in difficult conditions, which is in the area of KIM, i.e. the southern Serbian province, so that the information we received from Zvonko Mihajlovic, President SO Strpce, is really alarming, and you will see why. In Kosovo's daily "Koha Ditore" on Wednesday (December 24th), an article on the Ineks ski centre "Brezovica" was published quite worryingly. The article said Mr. Aleksandar Janicevic, director of the Inex ski centre, applied for a work permit with the Kosovo Ministry of Trade and Industry, a department for tourism. Such a move is interpreted as opening the way for the immediate privatisation of this complex. You know or a good part of you knows how important Inex ski centre for the survival of Serbs in the municipality of Strpce. It is the backbone of the municipality's economy, which directly and indirectly depends on about 200 workers and their family and whose, possibly, illegal privatisation by Pristina, would be hit hard by the survival of Serbs in these areas. But on top of that, we believe that you are also familiar with the fact that Ineks ski centre Bezovica has entered into the composition of the Public Enterprise, which we have mentioned so many times, Serbia's Ski resorts, whose budget pays to workers. It is also an interesting fact that the above-mentioned director of the Ski Centre, Mr Janicevic, is also an additional deputy mayor of the municipality of Strpce, in front of the institutions so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. He was appointed to the post several months ago by Mr Stanko Jakovljevic, former co-ordinator of the municipality of Strpce and until a few days ago by the president of the OO DS in Strpce and a member of the party's main committee, and now at the office of the mayor of the municipality of Strpce, in front of the institution, so-called. The Republic of Kosovo, and in accordance with the decision of the so-called The Kosovo government, number 02/25, extending the executive decision of UN Secretary-General Special Representative No 2007/64. This is not the first time that the names mentioned above, Jakovljevic and Janicevic, are mentioned when it comes to the privatisation of the Ski Centre. In fact, in the last two years, the two have been seen on several occasions in the rooms of the so-called. Kosovo privatisation agencies. It is also interesting that the State Secretary at the Ministry of KIM Mr Oliver Ivanovic visited the municipality of Strpce on December 27th, and that, among other things, he met behind closed doors with Mr. Jakovljevic and his closest associates, who work with institutions so-called. The Republic of Kosovo, though, on the other hand, is receiving salaries from the Republika Srpska system, so Serbia's budget. The question also arises, in what capacity Mr. Ivanovic met with Mr. Jakovljevic, although the latter no longer holds any significant function with the authorities of the Serbian state, except for the seat of the councilors in SO Strpce, whose sessions he rarely attends, nor in his party. According to unofficial sources of one of the participants of the meeting, Mr Ivanovic suggested that Mr. Jakovljevic's present associates return to their jobs at the institutions, so-called. The Republic of Kosovo, which will only later resolve their status with the institutions of the Serbian state. This move by the secretary of state can be interpreted by citizens as supporting Mr. Jakovljevic and the institutions he represents and as an invitation for workers who have listened to the Serbian government's advice to leave their jobs with Kosovo institutions to return to them. In other words, the State Secretary indirectly aids the construction and strengthening of institutions so-called. The Republic of Kosovo on the territory of the municipality of Strpci. These developments are interesting if the context of the current debate in the Serbian Parliament on the proposed 2009 budget is also considered, as it is obvious that there is an intention for certain people to privatise in one illegal way, and it can be said that some of the assets of a public enterprise are being seized and that they are doing material damage to the state of Serbia, and perhaps even more painfully, to cause enormous damage after the survival of the Serbs in the municipality of Strpce. So, this is what we wanted to draw attention to some events that may have far-reaching consequences, and from what you have heard now, it may well be a hint of why it was impossible to discuss Eulex, why the proposed RS budget is quite restrictive when it comes to funds for the southern Serbian province. At the same time, I will ask for this opportunity and an official but sincere reaction from both the Ministry of KIM and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this information you could now hear. Because it is certainly better to prevent something in time, because it is almost impossible to correct the consequences that will inevitably arise from such an act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11964	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I'll make sure I don't take up much of my time, but I think we have some facts to make in these situations. Of course it's good to take care of the most vulnerable citizens. It is certainly what both the Serbian government and all ministries within the government have as a special task, especially in difficult times. But in recent months, we've had a chance to listen here, I think, to me, something that may have crossed the limits of good taste, when it comes to special people with disabilities. I don't think it's a good idea to put political points together on these issues. For this reason, I have an obligation on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Rajkov, who is our colleague here in the Serbian Parliament, but unfortunately, technical inability is not always an opportunity to go out for a pay phone, to say just a few things. I'd like to remind you that Mrs. Rajkov is a member of the Parliament Group G 17 plus, but she is not a member of any party. She's here because she's impressed by the movement of people with disabilities in Serbia. In this regard, it is available to all parliamentary groups when it comes to these topics, given that they know the situation best and the way in which people with disabilities can be helped. First of all, I'd like to ask those who are fighting for the rights of persons with disabilities and, among other things, in their interest, to at least deal with terminology. So it's not said "persons with special needs", it's simply not people who have any special needs, it's people who have needs like all of us, just have, unfortunately, and they have to use different ways to meet those needs. It's about people with disabilities, not people with special needs. Something that's very important is that you don't need to isolate, Stigmatize and separate into special objects of people with disabilities. The tendency everywhere in the world, and of course in Serbia, which is something that is related to the fundamental issues of human dignity, is to give them the opportunity and opportunity to participate together with us in all activities and that together with us, with all others who have no disability, they can use all the facilities. Unfortunately, as the Assembly, we are not yet a great example of such a thing, although thanks to Mrs. Rajkov, we have just made an effort to become one. In that sense, I want to say that the tendency should also be when we talk about sports, that sports facilities that already exist are adapted to people with disabilities and opportunities to use them, not to build special sports facilities for people with disabilities. It is an inclusive approach which, I would say, has long been something that has been known in Serbia. I think we should all get a little more education on this plan and be familiar with it. In the Serbian Parliament, and also in the government, there is much work to do. Right now, at 1:00 p.m., Mrs. Rajkov and I will have one meeting with disabled people in an attempt to improve the Employment Act a little bit more, so that it fits all people with different types of disability. A lot of things happen behind the scenes, so I'm just saying, it just doesn't seem like it's very appropriate for us to talk about one amendment for two months and about how only one parliamentary group needs to fix things. I think all of us in Serbia and all of us in this House need to fix things on this plan. It's certainly not a matter of political differences, and I really wouldn't want it to be. As for the amendment itself to budget rebalancing, perhaps the minister didn't have all the information he needed to answer you. I'll tell you what information I've come up with in an attempt to find an answer to the question you've been asking here for two months, and we're not trying to save time we've always wanted to answer you. These assets exist. No one's ever spent it unintendedly. What was to be done for those 12 million is to submit appropriate projects that could identify these funds. Unfortunately, this has not happened so far, so a certain amount of these funds, about six million, I would say, have been used to build an elevator in the SC Kosutnjak, precisely so that a large sports centre, in the spirit of inclusion, could also be accessible to people with disabilities. Other funds, too, will not fail, are being transferred, are able to be transferred next year, and of course projects are welcome to enable adaptation, repeat, adaptation of existing sports fields and facilities so that they can be used by people with disabilities who would be in the same place where everyone else can play sports. It's the essence of trying not to discriminate against people with disabilities. However, this is about 12 million. I'm going to say that the Department of Sports has already invested 92 million, and nobody knows about it in particular, just when it comes to the sport of people with disabilities. It's primarily about those money that's funded by the sports alliances of people with disabilities. Also, scholarships from athletes with disabilities, the Paralympic Games, where our athletes participated and where the Ministry of Sports greatly supported. By the way of the 92m, another 382m euros has been defined and largely awarded as the prizes to the most successful athletes of people with disabilities. To inform the public and all colleagues in the Assembly, I think it was important that I say this. We, as Parliament group G 17 plus, and I expect everyone in this assembly, will support all efforts to make the position of people with disabilities in Serbia even better. In recent years, we've all done a lot together. I hope that we will work in the future without the need to fight politically about it. I really don't want to turn this into any kind of debate. Besides, I have to go to the meeting I was talking about. You're all welcome to come, try to help people with disabilities and make the Employment Act better for people with disabilities. At 13.00 hours, or right now, on the third floor. My colleague, I'm going to have to go, unfortunately, and don't take this as any kind of challenge, but as information in trying to make us all work better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11966	It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Spasojevic, replica, then Mr. Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11967	Dear People's MPs, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, I am truly sorry that the MP from G17 plus this way understood this message that we sent from this pay phone. So the NS has submitted an amendment that has not been implemented. I'm very sorry that you only went out here two months later and said what the problem was. You were just trying to tell me what the problem was. It's not true that we want anything political to profit here. We had good co-operation with Mrs. Comić, and I said with the finance minister, who said very correctly how it could be done. In one part of the amendment, we made a correction, so, even though we didn't think we were wrong, all together, whether or not, Madam Minister, we made a correction to help people with problems, people with disabilities. Let's not play around here now, maybe some game of words in which maybe, when we talk about these faces, we can't be completely unemotional. It is simply surprising that several memos sent by the finance minister to the Sports Ministry to solve this problem have not been answered. You've now found a solution. That's exactly the problem. It's just that the problem with these feuds that you're making and you want, gentlemen of G17 plus, to profit from someone's problems. Here we have done very correctly, well-meaningly, humanly, I repeat, in co-operation with Parliament Vice-President Gordan Comic, with Mrs Dragutinovic, who is part of the ruling coalition and who recognized the problem. We agreed we didn't want anyone to profit here. That's the problem you always want to profit from anything. I don't want to stand up to you in this part anymore. I'm sorry it's not happening. If the NS recognized the problem, then it needs to be realized, if LDP did, it needs to be realized, if it's DS, it needs to be realized. Don't say there's one MP group here right now, so that's just saying everything about you, you're just unhappy that we as NS recognized the problem. I think it's a shame. Once again, it was very correct from the finance ministers and from the Vice-President of the Assembly, we found a problem, we found an opportunity to accept the amendment, and here, two months later, we hear that the realisation is being carried out. That's what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11968	Mr. Lapcevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11969	Dear Madam President, the amendment submitted by Mr Spasojevic in front of the NS parliamentary group in one part contains the definition of NIP funds for the implementation of certain projects, including for the implementation of a long-drawn project to build a fecal waste water treatment collector in the town of Nis. The government's report explains that the amendment is not accepted because the NIP implementation funds will be deployed according to the government's decision to set priorities and, above all, for the implementation of the projects already launched, and if there is some money left for some new projects. Last year, the National Assembly of Nisa unanimously, I remind and repeat, adopted a session of the local infrastructure building programme and priorities to be financed from the NIP. Among other things, the first priority was to move eight kilometers of track across the city of Nis into two parts and dislocate that track to the eastern part of Pantelei to Proseko, to build those eight kilometers of railway. In this section of the railroad, which passes through the city center and which divides the city of Nis into two parts, from when there is a railroad to the day of today, the last 40 years, 148 people have died, because people have no other options, these railway crossings are not secured, crossing the railroad, 150 people, our fellow citizens, have lost their lives on that track. Last year it was applied for the project and it was in principle approved. This year, it did not go into the realization of the project, and I do not officially know that not only next year, but also for the Ada-Geneva-Simište tourist complex, the Work Area, the North and Donja Medrovo, the Airport, will not be a couple. About the wastewater treatment collector, which is also one of the priorities mentioned here in this amendment, there is also no saying that it will be supported by the state next year. The wastewater treatment collector for 300,000 Niš residents costs 50m euros. The low budget totals 70m euros annually. In addition to all the expenses, tell me when the city will be able to allocate enough funds to build that collector. In 20 or 30 years? What are we gonna do until then? Without the help of the state, there is no chance that these things will be resolved, but since it is said that here the NIP funds will be directed according to the government's special decision, read in translation - according to Minister Dinkic's proposal and by his decision, but especially to pay for what has been started so far, and for new projects which, as far as Nisa is concerned, there will probably not be any funds. Why won't it be? Because 300 and a few million euros must come from the sale of NIS to transfer to Vojvodina, because it's hot out there, so let's push the money into Vojvodina. It needs a billion dinars from the budget to transfer to municipalities in southern Serbia, because it's hot there, too, and there to put out the fire. Belgrade must keep to itself because it is a big city, all the state authorities are there, it would not be convenient for people to complain in Belgrade. When will the south of Serbia come in turn? Never. There'll always be a priority where it needs to be shut down. The Kragujevac must be shut down, because it's thick there, people will rebel, come on, we're making fictitious businesses, we're providing 14 billion for a job with the Fiat, which even the sparrows on the branch see is not going to be, we're giving 212 million dinars to pay back the workers in Kragujevac, because they're going to rebel. But that's why these same means for similar purposes, for Nis or for some of the municipalities of Southeastern Serbia, no, there's no, because people are nice, they don't complain, they don't make a fuss, so it doesn't matter, we'll remember them when there's no fire in other places in Serbia. So difficult that Serbia can survive as it is. I've already spoken on a similar subject a number of occasions most well-intentioned, because if people from Southeastern Serbia, MPs or presidents of municipalities, in one extremely civilized and cultural way address the government, asking for help, because it is the most needed there. Why is it most needed there? Because in the index of economic development of the municipality of Southeastern Serbia, the districts of southeastern Serbia are convincing in the end. Leskovac 48.3, i.e. Jablanski District, Pcinj County 49.6 relative to the average development in Serbia, Zaječar County 89, Nisavski District 84% compared to the average development in Serbia, Toplička District 62. There live misery, and if people are nice and say that certain projects need to be helped there, that state funds should be channeled primarily for the development of these backdrops, but they do it in a nice way, they don't make a fuss about it, then the government says -- we'll see if there's any money left. That's what we'll see, if there's any money left, there's always no money, because there's always those who are sharper, who are ruder, who are making noises, who threaten the Constitution, who threaten strikes and riots, because for them there's got to be money for them, but that's why for these undeveloped and for those who are nice there's no money. Do you think it'll last forever? No, they're not. They're gonna cut people off one day, so they're gonna have to seek their own justice. If all others can be provided with funds, if they can provide twice as much funding for Minister Dinkic and his cabinet and his senseless spending, if no one can touch his ministry, so his only ministry is financed this year by 100m euros more than the previous for the same jobs, then people will say, so wait, when we come to order. When any money will come from Serbia's state for Southeastern Serbia's projects, to get the end out of misery. From Kurzumlia, 60% of the population moved out, to all of us. The percentage of the evicted population in Toplička County is 35% over the last 20 years. Why are people moving out? Because no one invests there, but when taxes are collected then the tax administration of Nis, that's work, people have to do that job because they get orders, they have to go to control everything alive, write fines and collect taxes, and make money into Serbia's budget because it doesn't have 25 billion or 30 billion a year. This year's budget will be down, so there are all kinds of violations in these people, to write them tickets and close their stores for 10 days to fill Serbia's budget. I guess that people and those people living down there, they probably deserve some of their funding from giving the state back. For projects that are needed like this. This is no luxury, this is not a trip and services contracted by Minister Dinkic, this is not the 23 billion he will be able to have in mind. These are barely a hundred million to solve wastewater treatment in the city of Nis. If that doesn't work out, the city won't have anything to solve. The railroad will stay in the center of town, someone else will die. Who will bear the responsibility? Is that what anyone cares about in the government? I'm afraid it's hard for them to think that these people and those environments should be helped. Please consider this amendment and, at all, the purpose of the budget, in the future, that this country should be developed a little more evenly, not pushed into Belgrade, Vojvodina and developed areas. Just see how the NIP funds are allocated, how funds are allocated through various ministries for other projects. Funds from the Development Fund, last year about 3.5% of the development fund's assets went to the company's territory in the area last year. That is why a much higher percentage will go to the Belgrade district or to these more developed ones compared to the population. The average salary, the number of unemployed, I don't need to talk. In one Toplice, you have the same number of employees and unemployed. People have to run or organize to make social riots. I think your pensioners, workers who won't get a raise, or 7,000 promised by the government two months ago, are workers of the Belgrade department store and who doesn't, are quite enough to cause you social problems. You do not need a much larger group of endangered citizens of Southeast Serbia, who will have to organise one, because otherwise they will not be able to reach their rights, their existential conditions for life. Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11970	Thank you. Mrs. Veronica Radeta. You've got seven minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is truly amazing that the government has not accepted Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic's amendment. We have been listening here for days to remind you, Madam Minister, and not just to you, to every representative of the government by New Serbia's MPs, who in time submitted an amendment to the budget rebalancing, who supported all parliamentary groups and who committed the government to certain jobs in the field of sports when it comes to disability. Every minister who's been here and who's reminded of it, he said, yes, that's not controversial, we'll do it. The deadline's long gone. With the budget rebalance, we're done. We are moving to a decision on temporary financing as of 1 January. You didn't accept the amendment. So you deceived Serbian citizens and still deceive them. Indeed, while you have been avoiding answering our questions for several days, you will have to say what led you to a single amendment, accepted by all MPs of the National Assembly, not to this day. So, since you haven't realized it, you're getting a new amendment to this budget proposal again. You don't accept it. There really is no rational explanation. Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic just tried to explain, since the G17 party is the minister of sport and youth, and then a colleague tried to defend her colleague minister, so she said that some funds had already been spent, 95 million, but that all this was not enough, that this would continue to be done, etc. Well, that's more of a reason for them to accept this amendment, and for you to accept it. So, she said herself, I guess based on the information from the Minister of Sports, that there was insufficient funding, 95 million still have to be invested, and you're not going to accept this amendment, and you're going to invest another 12 million because then it would be a problem, you'd have to cut the services by contract to the Deputy Prime Minister for Temporary Development, which is amazing. Indeed, it's our constant question, we've been saying it for years, and here we are, and these days, we're constantly running out of answers, what are the services under contract? What are the services under the contract that the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development is supposed to sign and that it costs 25 million dinars to Serbian citizens? Who are you closing your objections with? What's going on with these contracts? Of course, if we had the final budget bill for last year, then we could know exactly how much it is and exactly what the funds are spent on contracts for the previous year, and here we have for this year something that nobody lives here knows what it means. I am convinced that you, Madam Minister, do not know what services these are under contract and what the Deputy Prime Minister of Economic Development intends to negotiate and where he intends to spend 25 million dinars from the pockets of Serbian citizens. There, he suggested, that the amount be reduced to 13 million, and then 12 million dinars remain with the Youth and Sports Ministry, precisely for those purposes that my colleagues here spoke of before me. The amendment has yet another interesting continuation, referring to the Ministry of National Investment Plan, where the amendment proposed that 800 million dinars be reduced from the budget provided for as non-financial assets financed by the National Investment Plan. Non-financial assets -- this is, firstly, a very interesting term, and secondly, it is also asking here what non-financial assets should cost citizens of Serbia 12 billion dinars. So you're throwing yourself away with the funds of the Serbian citizens, without any normal and sound reasoning, that it's really scary. Then you tell us - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds for the implementation of the National Investment Plan will be deployed according to the government's decision. That is what worries us, that the funding from the National Investment Plan is distributed by the Government, instead of long ago adopting the National Investment Plan law here, whether you agree with Mrs. Minister, and that these funds are available under the law, without being able to make such resources available by Verica Kalanovic and Mladjan Dinkic. You know, wherever there's a lot of money, there's Mladjan Dinkic and the company around him. Then you'll allow it. How can we at this irrational notion of "non-financial assets" predict 12 billion funds from Serbian citizens to someone whose party friend and best manager in the world, Bojan Kristo, who paid himself 11m euros for one month's salary? Accept this amendment, otherwise you will be very resentful of the citizens of Serbia. Don't steal money from their pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11972	On Article 5, sections 3 and 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11973	Dear members of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Madam Minister, the amendment to Article 5 provides for the transfer of funds intended for services under the contract of the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development at the Ministry of Diaspora. This was proposed for two reasons. The first and the most important reason is to certainly increase donations for activities that could provide the country with significant participation in terms of preserving the national self-esteem of Serbs living outside the queen. This implies the purpose of certain funds for the Serbian language supplementary teaching area, for other cultural and educational, as well as for informative content. It's unnecessary to waste words on the meaning of this. Generally, our people working abroad are loyal citizens and are quite well integrated into the societies of the countries that gave them hospitality. Of course, integration does not necessarily involve assimilation. I think that's what gets our citizens not only to keep their identity, but to keep one kind of relationship with the queen. I think it is particularly important to take this into account in certain countries in an environment where there is pressure on national activities, with a tendency to endanger them, and even the assimilation of the Serb population living in those countries. The second reason for this amendment is the reduction of unwarranted large funds on the service item under contract with the Vice-President of the Government in charge of economic development. When you look at the economic classification of 421 and 423, or the salaries of employees and services per contract, both have the same amounts, i.e. 25 million dinars. So hiring people by contract costs just as much as the funds allocated to all employees. The question can be asked whether the government implies that these employees are then unable to respond to the task, so it is necessary to engage and double administrations. This raises the question of the rationalization of the state administration. Whether the state administration is rational is seen through the distribution of money, or through how much it spends itself. Whether one administration can be rational about it, but it seems to me that there is a case with us -- that the administration is expensive, bulky and that it uses its percentage more to carry out the budget than any other country. Perhaps Mrs. Minister can give us the exact information about that later. If you look at each organ and add a classification of 422 - travel, 423 - contracted services and 424 - specialized services, you can see how many citizens are costing service services. It also seems to me that the promise to streamline the state administration, such as, of course, water and many other promises such as the promise to increase pensions at 70% of the level of the average salary, 1,000 euros per share, 200 000 new jobs, etc. Madam Minister, I urge you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11974	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the amendment submitted by counterpart Nikola Lazic is absolutely meaningful and should be accepted. If you look at the entire budget, i.e. the 2009 budget proposal, you will see that there are more or less among all budget users, especially when it comes to state bodies, fairly large funds for this budgetary position called - services per contract. For these services under contract, 25 million dinars are foreseen for the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development. The question now raises why so much resources and in what situations there is at all a need for the budget user to conclude with third parties work contracts. When is the work contract closed? The work contract is concluded when there is not enough professional, staff and other potential for a particular job to be done within the budget user itself, and then the budgetary user is in a position to obtain certain services based on the contract, i.e. to carry out certain tasks for its needs. The question now arises, what situations can the cabinet of the vice-president of economic development be found in order to spend the entire 25 million dinars in 2009 on behalf of the conclusion of the labour contract. This is not only the case when it comes to the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development. It's enough to look at every budgetary user, and the Prime Minister, and the first, and the second, and the third and fourth Deputy Prime Minister, and the Ministry and the Special Organization, etc., and you'll see that really big financial resources are allocated in the name of services per contract and travel costs. I do wonder sometimes whether the Serbian Government, when it made budget projections for 2009, had in mind in general -- which is what budget users deal with, what is the basic nature of their actions, or whether these amounts are written in the draft budget law, according to the wishes of various ministers, their deputies, the heads of the party making up the ruling coalition, etc. You, for example, had, for a moment in the amendment of MP Milan Dimitrijevic, the fact that for travel expenses to the General Secretariat of the Government for 2009 total 94 million dinars. Now it is enough for a man to take a sound look at those items and ask himself, and where will the Secretary-General of the Government, along with the employees, travel so much during 2009, to set aside a total of 94 million dinars for some travel expenses. The General Secretariat of the Government is tasked with preparing meetings of the government, so that the government makes decisions that are in accordance with the Constitution and the law, therefore, are more or less administrative and technical affairs. The question now arises where will the government's secretary-general travel during 2009, so as to allocate the entire 94 million dinars for travel costs. I understand that the great cost of traveling to the National Assembly is because MPs come from various parts of Serbia, someone lives in Belgrade, someone lives in Leskovac, Nis, Valjevo, etc. As far as I know, the Secretary-General of the Government lives in Belgrade, employees of the General Secretariat of the Government mostly live in Belgrade, and now the question is how are people living in Belgrade who are mostly doing administrative and legal work for the government during 2009 to spend 94 million dinars on travel costs. In general, these travel costs, Mrs Dragutinovic, are really big for each budget user. I understand the state's representatives are supposed to travel, no one's contesting it, but do they really have to travel so much to spend so much money? As for these work contracts, i.e. the fees paid on behalf of these labour contracts, counterpart Lazic asked a very reasoned question -- when the Serbian government will finally start applying in practice what the State Administration Reform Strategy, the Law on State Administration and all the strong political declarations about making a state administration that is in line with European standards. Just to remind you, in 2004, a state administration reform strategy was adopted, certain deadlines that must be respected when it comes to reforming the state administration. This country has even taken on certain commitments towards the OSCE, according to the EU, because, if I am not mistaken, we have received appropriate funding from abroad to implement the reform. Now that you look at the end of 2008. the adopted reform strategy, then where are we with the implementation of this strategy? We have reached the point where we have one of the most massive state administrations, that the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development in 2009 will spend 94 million dinars for services per contract, that the Secretary-General of the Government will travel during 2009 for who knows how many millions of dinars etc. Where is your reform of the state administration coming from? When will you finally start with her? It's not enough just to talk about reform. You think it's just enough to put something on paper, to set up an agency for everything and that the reform is done that way. You are laughing, Mrs Dragutinovic, here I ask you, you are Minister of Government, if there is a minister in the Government who can tell us, in this way, how many agencies there are in the Republic of Serbia. No, people would have to find out how many laws. Even some agencies were formed by a regulation, a regulation on the Serbian government. There is not a single minister in the government, however competent, to ask him now - Mr. Minister, how many agencies there are in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, as intelligent as the man is and is referred to matter, he has to sit down first and provide a bunch of official messengers, so he can ask his advisors, deputies, helpers to find him, maybe for a whole day a man couldn't give you an answer to that question. What I'm saying is not so naive at all. You have agencies that literally don't do anything, and the director of the agency and employees of this agency are getting paid. You have even in the European Commission's report, Mrs Dragutinovic, criticism of the situation in the area of energy efficiency. I've only set one example. This is where I quoted the European Commission's report. Why? Let me show you what your European friends think about how you do. I understand that you don't listen to the opposition, we're primitive, uneducated, we don't understand ourselves in matter, we cause incidents, etc., but these in the European Commission are both educated, and cultural and don't cause incidents, so what do they say to you, how do you do? You're not doing well. We come up with a truly paradoxical situation, Mrs Dragutinovic. If we exclude these political topics such as the Hague Tribunal, KIM, Vojvodina, there is one paradoxical conclusion: much that the opposition in this Parliament and the SRS object to you, so do your European friends. They tell you you spend a lot of money. The fact that this country spends a lot of money, that's not just the SRS or the DSS, or the NS. This is what the people of the European Commission told you, that public spending is extremely high. This is what the people of the World Bank, from the IMF, told you, gave you concrete figures, how much more you spend than countries of similar size and economic development in Europe. They told you that those agencies you formed don't do anything. Mrs Dragutinović, in 2004, you may not know and it may not be a sin if you don't know, you may not have to know, but in 2004, the Energy Efficiency Agency was founded. It's the end of 2008. In four years, there should probably be some shifts in the energy efficiency plan in Serbia. You can read the European Commission's report on the state of reform in Serbia during 2008, many words of criticism at the expense of the Energy Efficiency Agency. The question is, how does this agency work, why don't you change something, maybe something needs to be lifted, to change a director. What needs to be done, so the agencies can work on you. Obviously, you have no intention of abolishing them, but if you don't stop them, do you have any mechanisms to get these people to do their job, or did you just put them there to satisfy some of your party quotas? This one was good for me in the campaign, so let's make him deputy director, this is what the aunt joined so many people in the DS, let's hire her to the agency. Is that how you do it or still take care of some expertise, efficiency, rationality, etc. Yesterday I said, not just yesterday, many times, if you're already tightening the belt and if you're telling the citizens, go from yourself, start from the ministries, from the special organizations, from the agencies, from the administration's departments, etc. Now look at how much this government piles up the same number of organs that do the same work in the same matter. You have the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, you've established the Ministry Act, maybe there should be a ministry. Then you have the Environmental Protection Agency. There is already the parallelism of the organs, and the ministry and agencies are the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. To make things even funnier, you have the Environment Development Fund and environmental protection. The question arises: Does the minister know where the ministry's competencies go, where the agencies go, and where the Environment Fund comes from? Do you know who's doing what in this country? Why do you need three organs doing the same work in the same matter? If the minister is incapacitated to deal with a business in a portfolio headed as a minister, change the minister. No, you have a minister, you have a director of the Environmental Protection Agency, you have a director of the Environmental Protection Fund. Which is why in conditions where you tell citizens that when they leave the apartment, they should turn off the light, not buy the stoves in 2009, not to go into loans, etc. That's funny to you, Mrs Dragutinovic, and to me, but that's what your government colleagues said. Should I remind you of the brilliant statements by Slobodan Milosavljevic, Bozidar Djelic, Oliver Dulic, which are their efforts to save in 2009. Slobodan Milosavljevic will not buy a stove, Oliver Dulic turns off the light when he comes out of the apartment, and Mladjan Dinkic is the most thrift. He said -- otherwise I don't spend much, I don't have anything to squeeze on in 2009, I don't drive expensive cars, I don't have expensive watches, I don't wear marked suits, I'm a regular citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I'll behave like all other Serbian citizens. These are the austerity measures your colleagues in the government are ordering Serbian citizens, i.e. give recipes on how to spend less in 2009. On purpose, Mrs. Dragutinović, I'm caricing some things. That may seem ridiculous to you when you and I are in the middle of something. I understand that you know what I'm talking about, but it seems tragic in the eyes of the people you're ordering to tighten the belt in 2009, and this government is not doing anything to tighten the belt, this government is going to spend more than it spent in 2008. It's high time you took some steps to cut the costs of the state administration, I know it's painful, but in that job you have to go once. None of you are asking you to make some extreme cuts now and finish the whole job in 2009. It's not real and it shouldn't be done. Move gradually into these changes. You're not taking any steps at all. You even suggested in 2009 an increase in the volume of state administration, both in human and financial terms. Of these austerity measures, Mrs Dragutinovic, there will be nothing, savings citizens, but not because you tell them to save, people know that they have to save because the force of economic opportunities is driving them to do so, so once the citizens are saving, let's show a minimum of goodwill that this and this government saves at least one single dinar.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11976	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. On Article 5, Sections 3 and 25, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(6) of the Budgetary System Act. Mrs. Verica Radeta wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic read, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of Section 3, Chapter 3.9, the Anti-Corruption Council is deleted. When you say it like this, someone who didn't have this bookshop called the budget wouldn't know what it was about. It is, ladies and gentlemen, that the Republika Srpska budget provides for the Anti-Corruption Council to allocate 19mm 901,000 dinars. The first question to be answered here is what has this advice done so far, and many times have we been listening to Mrs. Baraq who has been providing various information, which has opened many affairs that have been magically closed? What exactly did this anti-corruption council do? What did the competent state authorities do on the basis of all that Mrs Baraq was public? What did the state authorities do against the fact that Mrs. Barac, president of the anti-corruption council, whom you, Mrs. Dragutinovic, foresaw 20 million dinars from the pockets of this people, said that she was asking something to recognise Kosovo and that Kosovo is an independent state for it? We were asking this as a parliamentary question and if we were in a normal state on the same day, that lady would have been removed from state functions and you wouldn't have thought of predicting 20 million people's couples, that Mrs. Barac, who says she's asking, she would have recognised Kosovo. Thank God, no one's asking her anything. This is a political issue, and this was our basic motive, which we immediately submitted an amendment to delete, that this council on the fight against corruption, due to such a statement by Verice Barac, would receive zero dinars from Serbia's citizens' pockets. There's another reason. Now imagine, just now, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic read that the amendment I submitted was unconstitutional, and it is in line with the Constitution that Verica Barac says Kosovo is an independent state. It's in accordance with the Constitution, and when we say it can't be paid by the people, by someone who says it, it's not in accordance with the Constitution. Very interesting concept of the Constitution. What's another reason that's legal, financial, state-of-the-art, whatever you want? That's what we were talking about when you passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act 10 days ago. You have a Anti-Corruption Council, and 20 million of it, you have a Anti-Corruption Agency, which starts working on January 1st, just when a decision on temporary financing takes effect, since you won't have a budget, you've provided her with 12 million dinars. Who will now really fight corruption in the Serbian state? Is this advice that will spend 20 million people's money or this newly formed agency that will spend 12.5 million people's money? No more independent regulatory bodies as you call them, no more corruption than in the state of Serbia, at the top of the government, the most responsible people in the state of Serbia are criminals and this is already clear to every citizen of Serbia. You, I guess, to create some smoke screen, you're here to distract the people with a story about the formation of this anti-corruption agency, then a council to fight, and all of you to fight corruption, and corruption flourishing. What we have said since we know that amendments to the budget have to be submitted every year, this amount of 19 million 901,000 dinars, which we think should not be spent by Verica Barac and some society with her, or the Anti-Corruption Council, we have foreseen for the KIM Ministry. Because we believe, unlike Verica Barac, that KIM is an integral part of Serbia, that it will always be that it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the state of Serbia is obliged to take care of KIM more seriously, of the Serbs living in KIM, of Serbs who would be very happy to return to KIM, and they cannot, and the state does not create conditions for them to do so. You heard a colleague named Vladan Jeremic earlier when he introduced you to a fact that happens at KIM. We've been talking for days that EULEX is KIM. It doesn't touch you from power, to your ears, to your consciousness. Why did we provide for these funds within the KIM Ministry? First of all, for the sake of the public, I have to say that 6 billion 374 million 833,299 dinars were foreseen in the KIM budget for 2008. This year we're tightening the belt on KIM. This year's budget envisions four billion 177 million 913,000. By 36% less funds, ladies and gentlemen, this draft budget is intended for the KIM Ministry than it was last year. The KIM Ministry, or funds spent on KIM, and we predicted that this instead of Verica Barać would be given to everyone and that is exactly what we predicted to be given to KIM, to be, to be in the division of 25 functions 110, in paragraph 472 - social security compensation from the budget. In particular, for the social security compensation from the budget, we have foreseen these 20 million you have provided for this agency, the Anti-Corruption Commission, Verica Barac. What's this about? In KIM, I read the budget's explanation, part of the budget's reasoning, is in very difficult conditions, in scattered enclaves, without freedom of movement left to live by 146,297 Serbs and non-Albanians. According to official data from the province's "Red Cross" KiM, of that number, I already read it the other day, but I hope it doesn't bother, 8,296 families live in a constant state of need for humanitarian aid and their existence depends practically on that assistance. As you predicted in the budget, I have to remind you that for those 8,296 families you will set aside in 2009 22,000 pieces of food and 22 packages of hygiene. Last time I said it was about three packages a year for each family, so then I calculated it was exactly 2.6 packages for each family. I don't know how you're going to divide this behind the decimal, if you're going to take a liter of oil, so you're going to divide into these percentages, or in any way, I don't see it here, but I guess you're a very smart government, you've figured out how you're going to do it. You could, because it's also in this same budget item, you could be part of these funds, instead of Verica Barac, let's say you give for a fund that's been trying to get some money for families of missing and killed with KIM for years. I see these days, all of them are photographed in front of the wall of wages, let's specifically make these funds be given to these families so that they can find out what actually happened to the members of their families, whether they were killed, where they were killed, that those who were killed are buried in accordance with Orthodox customs, which they insist on, those who were kidnapped to find out if they're still alive where they are, etc. Not only can the group of citizens, this NGO, be concerned about the obligation of the state, it is the obligation of that Vukcevic, who deals with some of his known things and those things for which he has been paid from the white world, and does not deal with what really is the problem of Serbian citizens, which is indeed the problem of the Serbian state. You could single out some of these funds, and let's say you help, open up a website for this family association, after you open it, we read in the papers, that your cultural minister gave 25,000 to open the site of Quiri, so I'd ask you to tell us, too, while we hang out tonight, to find out from your associates, call them, how much further has the Government of Serbia funded? Let's see if it's common or if Quiria has some priority with Minister Bradic. All of this is not only of interest to SRS lawmakers, it is also of interest to Serbian citizens. You know, Serbian citizens, when they find out such information, they're shrinking, they're asking when they meet us, people, is it possible that the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing it? Is it possible that such things the Government of the Republic of Serbia tolerates that no one cares what the real interests of Serbian citizens are? You can't tell me, and you can't convince me that it's not the interest of the Serbian state and Serbian citizens to stop working on that anti-corruption commission if we have an agency, if we have 12 million dinars, these projected 20 million dinars, so where's the belt? Serbian citizens are just tightening their belts. The government did not accept the amendment for the reason that the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia lays down the necessary financial resources for the work of the authorities of the state administration and government services established in accordance with the Constitution, laws or regulations of the Government. I did not mention in this amendment whether an agency or a commission in accordance with the Constitution was formed or not in accordance with the constitution, but it is not in line with the common sense that we have both the Commission and the Agency, that citizens are paying both, that both are fighting corruption, that corruption continues to flourish in unlimited quantities, that it is clear to everyone that this commission had to be replaced by the agency, because it is the Verica Baraq who would, he says, recognise Kosovo and Metohija, which is unacceptable to say someone who gets paid from the budget and who is financed by Serbian citizens. (President: Time. ) Therefore, it is inadmissible that the commission continues to exist and that it continues to be financed from the budget. I mean you, don't listen to what Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic said, that I have proposed an unconstitutional amendment. It's an insult to my legal profession. All I'm saying here is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution, of course, as the supreme law of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11978	Mr. Milentievich has a word for this amendment. Here, since you've waited, then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11979	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on behalf of all of us who live in KIM, I would like to thank Mrs Verica Radeti, who is trying to correct with her amendment the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 when it comes to KIM. Mrs. Radeta, I don't think that's possible. It's impossible for two reasons. The first and basic reason is a harsh violation of the very Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in Article 182 of Article 2 provides for two autonomous provinces, and now there are the double arches. When it comes to AP KIM, the constitutional provision is strictly respected and a minimum of 7% is allocated from the Republika Srpska budget. Now I'd like to know what that minimum is when it comes to KIM. Is the minimum reduction of 36% of the 2008 budget or will be an even greater minimum for 2010, where 50% of the budget may be reduced when it comes to the KIM ministry. The second reason is the incomprehensible and poor relationship between these congregations and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia. Why? The government accepted the establishment of the Community Assembly of the municipalities of AP KIM in its conclusion. Afterwards, she clearly and loudly ignored and boycotted the assembly of the Community of the municipalities of AP KIM, by the fact that none of the representatives of the government or ministries, in the period since the establishment of the Assembly of the Community, had attended the meetings of the Assembly, and six had been held so far. Several times, the leadership of the Community Assembly in writing asked the Prime Minister to clarify some things about the issue of KIM, which is the Eulex mission, the budget and everything else that follows the situation at KIM. The Republika Srpska Assembly and the government of the Republic of Serbia have ignored the opposition's request to put on the agenda a debate on the state and situation at KIM. A petition of 75,000 Serbs and non-Albanians with KIM has been ignored so as not to accept the Eulex mission. As far as the Eulex mission is concerned, secret negotiations have been conducted. Whoever negotiated it, you don't know. Who he's been negotiating with, you don't know. The content of the six-point negotiations of the Ban Ki Moon agreement -- Belgrade -- are still unknown. The agreement was presented to the public as a diplomatic victory and is in line with Resolution 1244. That in the environments where Serbs and non-Albanians, the police, the judiciary and customs will work under the authority of Unmik and will co-operate with Unmik. The Eulex mission has been deployed all over KIM. Unmika's no longer in the field. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, and citizens of Serbian nationality and non-Albanians at KIM know this well, Unmika is no longer in KIM. What's next? The other day, the president of the Republic of Serbia wrote a letter to Ban Ki Moon, where he expects EULEX to be neutral and to implement six points of the agreement. Now, these days, both Mr Zannier and Belgrade are preparing negotiating teams to negotiate six points of the Ban Ki Moon agreement -- Belgrade. I ask you: does this mean that the six-point negotiations are just beginning now, to God, the Ban Ki Moon-Belgrade Agreement? I get the impression that this is the opportunity, because as soon as there's no public content on six points, that's about it. That's the main problem. You took the Eulex mission, she took her positions, and there's nothing left to negotiate. The Eulex mission is largely implementing Marty Ahtisaari's plan, and the plan is, gentlemen, to implement an independent state of Kosovo. If the mission implements the plan, we will now be pleased with the negotiations of this negotiating team of Zanier and Belgrade. With Unmika no longer in KIM, the government has been defined as weak and withdrawing state institutions from KIM. The best example is the previous law on justice, where, through certain laws, the AP is going through, and then we've abolished and minimized more than half of the courts, each court is reduced to one, approximately to have some of the oaths, and exactly half of them we've withdrawn from KIM. That is the attitude of these congregations towards KIM, the government, the ministry and the president of the Republic of Serbia. Such a relationship is also addressed to the Serbian budget, especially when it comes to the budget for social contributions, to which Ms. Verica Radeta has submitted the amendment. It is incomprehensible that out of 970 million, as in the 2008 budget, 100 million are proposed for 2009. There is one decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where individual donations are transferred to the Ministry of Social Affairs, and how much of these payments are, no one knows. We don't know, Madam Minister, I haven't had a chance to find out yet, if I find out, I'll be happy and happy to hear you say it. However, if we have in mind that for contract services and specialised services, what the dilemma is about is between all our MPs and my colleagues for what these funds are for, I have them, too, if for these two types of services it's defined 60 million and 100 million for social contributions, then it's absurd. I'll tell you in short, given that time is running out, which is what needs are about when it comes to these 100 million dinars. It's a means for poor families. These are the funds for families searching for their missing members. These are funds for financing the material costs of primary and secondary schools, the costs of transportation of pupils, the costs of children's kitchens and the costs of housing children distracted by development and special schools. These are resources for 8,296 families, users living in a constant state of need for humanitarian aid, their existence depends practically on the same, which is the heat, those packages that Mrs. Verica Radeta spoke of. Does anyone think 100 million could cover these needs when it comes to social contributions to AP Kim territory? About the reduction in wages and the budget, which has been reduced by a total of 36%, I will speak on my amendment. But it seems to me that with this way and projection of this budget, the state of Serbia is consciously seeking to integrate Serbs and non-Albanians into Kosovo institutions. It's something unacceptable. Don't be angry when we tell you, for God's sake, that when it comes to KIM, you only advocate verbally.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11980	After the break, we'll continue our work. It's Mrs. Milice Radovic's amendment. The break is up to 15.10 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon. On Article 5, sections 3 and 16, the amendment was submitted by National MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Financial Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 5, sections 3 and 51, the amendment was submitted by National MP Donka Banovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11982	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Madam Minister is not here, after hearing my argument on why this amendment should be accepted, perhaps she would accept it, and wouldn't reject it, what is the current situation with this amendment. I suggest that in Section 3, and this function is 110 - executive and legislative bodies, and chapters 3 and 7, media co-operation offices, which are contracted, where 16 million dinars are provided, I suggest that you remove 10 million dinars from the items and transfer those 10 million dinars for services by contract, and for the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. Simply put, from the Office for Media Cooperation, the Government's Office, transferred 10 million to the Commissioner for Public Information. Why did I take this amount from the government's press co-operation office? Because the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are now very well in control of all the media, and electronic and printed, so I don't think this office should exist, so this is six million that they have left with more than enough. The law on free access to information of public importance established the Commissioner for Public Information and we voted this law here in 2004. However, a few weeks ago, we also voted on the Personal Data Protection Act, so the current trustee is also responsible for the protection of personal data. So the trustee gets another very important task, or he'll have two responsibilities. However, it is not only enough that we adopt one law here, but that law must also live and be implemented in order to truly be a law. Such a solution for the trustee has been taken from the experiences of other countries, where it has proved to be very good. However, it should be considered that the conditions in which our trustee and his foreign colleagues work differ as the heavens and the earth. Serbia's Commissioner for Public Information faces major problems in his work. Among other things, there is a kind of obstruction and non-cooperation by the government of the Republic of Serbia, so ministries, as well as some state institutions. For example, some congregation committees also faced this lack of cooperation. The trustee and his associates have a large number of cases. In reports that the trustee regularly delivers to the National Assembly about his work, we know that there are 5,000 registered cases and that many cases have been pending so far. The trustee works in completely inadequate conditions and with very few people. The service currently employs seven people, one driver, two secretaries and four lawyers, plus a trustee, so a total of seven, there are no inspectors. When compared to the service of trustees in Slovenia, and Slovenia knows that there are many or much fewer people than Serbia, then there are as many as 10 inspectors in Slovenia, and there are none in Serbia. It is absurd to expect that in the existing conditions, the Serbian trustee responds in the right way, with its already existing obligations, and to additional, far more difficult and complex tasks arising from the Personal Data Protection Act. If circumstances don't change quickly, the chances of this law being applied at all, and we know that there are many laws that haven't come to life at all, so it wouldn't be a good idea for this law to be a stillborn. This law, therefore the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, affirms the right of a person to decide, in principle, on the processing and use of data about it. Secondly, it accurately defines the circumstances and conditions under which personality data can be processed and used with consent and personality. The most important thing is to establish an effective legal protection mechanism for all cases of violations of law. In Serbia, personal data protection rights are violated daily. We're not even aware of the dimension of that breach. Now I'm going to show you a list that was published in "Politics" on December 27th in part of the ad. This list was, by the way, said a few days ago, where counterpart Kragovic spoke about this list from one other and different angle, and he was quite right, that there are many people here who do not have the right to do free shares just because they were born on KIM, so he was very clear when he talked about this list that night. This list, where it says, is rejected for enrollment in the register of rightholders, applicants, so a list of people who have not acquired the right to free division of actions, I want to talk about this list as a flagrant violation of the Law on the Protection of Personal Rights. Please, this is already the second list. So, two weeks ago, a list was published just like this, so the Privatisation Agency gentlemen were warned not to do it, to break the law. They appreciated it so much that after two weeks they published a second list. In total, they published about 60,000 names, last names, parents' names, and plus published a unique home number of every citizen. So, in addition to being warned by the trustee, they repeated the offence, so I now publicly warn them here that they do not accidentally think of publishing my personal data. One thing is when you publish your name and last name, and it's quite another thing, and they know it well, when you publish a unique home number of a citizen. If we go into detail, then the Agency broke two laws, broke a valid law of the 1990s that deals with the protection of personal data, and they violated the law that we voted here. They need to know that eight days after the law is published in the Official Messenger, it comes into force, although it is scheduled to apply from January 1st. So they broke two laws. Again, I am sorry that Mrs Dragutinovic is not here, because she would understand why the Commissioner for Public Information, and since January and for the protection of personality data, and his service must be better funded, so that our human rights are not violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11983	Before I give my word to MP Momir Markovic, I would like to inform the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1800 hours, on the basis of Article 85(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, the word is by MP Momir Markovic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11984	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a month and a half ago knew what the fate of the budget would be and it was known that this government had planned to start funding in 2009. The reason is very simple, the money is gone. In January and half of February, as business people say, are poor months, as nothing is paid by January 20th, too. It was clear why the government would go on temporary financing. On the other hand, disagreements in the government are a reflection of this budget. The debates, the arguments, the kidnappings for each dinar produced this 800-something book, which unequivocally shows that the money is divided not according to some priorities, but the only priority and only concept is who is in what function, which is the party in which the function, which is the party held by the ministry, which is the party that ties in the government has to isolate. We've come to what we've come to. We have so many unsuspecting items, where millions are being scattered, simply thrown into some kind of ministries and spent in a very inconclusive way. On the other hand, we have parts of the ministries, parts of the service, which are also needed for citizens and for which they provide certain services, and the rest are denied for a good portion of the funds just because they were not in a position to help their ministers eventually separate. Mrs. Donka Banovic asked with her amendment to redistribute a portion of the funds that the government, or cabinet of the Prime Minister, has defined as so-called. The press co-operation office. On the other hand, it has been the Commissioner for Public Information, who has since this assembly formed that office and selected the trustee, the pastor of this state and this government. Since I am on a team that helps prepare the defense of Prof. Vojislav Seselj, we have often had opportunities and needs to cooperate with the trustee and we have received a lot of quality information. However, his office, as you have recently heard, numbers of seven employees and also on demand, and on his orders many in this country and government are deafening. Not only the Government, but even public enterprises, give themselves the right to say that, for example, the salary of the director or the salary of the board of directors or the salary of board members is a business secret. Then why would the law on a trustee for information of public importance? Let's see what it looks like in this 800-page book. Page 26 - The Office for Media Cooperation says this: services under contract - 16 million dinars. If the office, which has so many employees, is already formed, what are the services under contract and who are these services paid for by contract? I'll read that part, that's page 166, it says: The Office for Media Cooperation was established by the Government Regulation, no. This and this, the "Official Messenger", as a government service, according to which the Office for Media Cooperation informs the public about the work of the government, ministries, special organisations, government services, handles internal information. Do ministers have the opportunity to inform citizens of Serbia, the Serbian and the world's public at a press conference, what are they doing? Did they need it for this office? Next, it says, internal information. In order for them to inform the public, they have to be internally informed, and this is carried over to three knees, and then the third one will inform the public by issuing public internal publications and performing other affairs in the field of co-operation with the media entrusted to it by the government. It says - basic internal units have been educated in the office, and that is: the media co-operation sector, within which internal units have been educated, and that is: press service, notification of domestic public work by the government; the Department of Foreign Media Cooperation, the organisation of monitoring the activities of government members outside the country. So, when the minister does something in the country or when the government does something in the country, the special service will follow him, and for those jobs that the minister or ministers, or the government in general, will never go abroad, though. I think it would be best for Serbia for the whole government to leave, but to take a one-way ticket. It says press-clipping, internal informing members of the government. So, they don't talk to each other, but they have to press-clipping, so -- Minister Dinkic said this, Minister Djelic said that, Minister Dinkic said it is going to temporary financing, because he won't vote. He said, however, that the citizens of Serbia know, the MPs know, but it seems those in the government don't know, but they will have to forward his statement to all members of the government, texted, in order to inform people. The Internet sector, which deals with the government's presentation of work via the Internet and the presentation of the largest information on the Republic of Serbia. Cheers. It says - the largest participation in the structure of defined budgets has funds for services under contract – how if the office exists, if there are employees in it, if employees exercise labour rights, receive a salary that is certainly far higher than the average salary in the economy and in the out-of-business in Serbia – so it says this and refers to public information services, "Beta", "Tanjug", "Fonet", "Srna". Now I don't know if they pay Betty, Fonet, Tanjug, Sni, let go of this information, it costs so much, work by effect, I do it to you, you do it to me. I give you the money, you pass me the information. In the government, everything works, and they just don't kill each other there. It goes on to say - professional services, translation costs and additional translation. Do we have translators in the government? The translators who work, who started a working relationship in the government. To whom do we add new funds for additional translations? What are we translating? Would you like me to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, remember back two or three years, how many laws we've received that are inapplicable to our country, to our relations, to our economy. You remember how many laws we got, because the translators, probably those by contract, didn't translate properly, did they have any Slovenian words. The man in translation skipped over, so we just realized that we were adopting Slovenian laws, the laws of the Netherlands, the laws of Germany. There are very few laws that the ministries in their services have made and brought here before the MPs, while respecting the personalities of this country, this people and this economy. He says further, translation costs and additional translation services, software development services needed by the Internet department, and 16 million for software needed by the Internet department; please. Education and training services of employees, co- utilisation for seminars. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when they want to be educated and perfected, they can't do it in Belgrade, but at least the Golden Pine or the Kopalnik has to do it, so the quotation is paid, and it looks like Zlatibor is doing very well, possibly in Vranjska Banja. For professional exams, newsletter printing services; the government communicates with each other to bulletins. I don't remember the government delivering some newsletter to the National Assembly here, so let's take a look at what they're doing, when they're making this much money, etc. On the other hand, we have the Commissioner for Public Information, we have a law that obliges all social entities to, at the request of the Commissioner for information of the public importance of the delivery of information. We had the opportunity not because he didn't want us to, but because they didn't provide him with the data and they didn't provide him with the information, that after a few months we were waiting for certain documents that we needed over, because the trial in The Hague had long gone and received them once with a delay, and sometimes back-to-back. That's why she's right, Mrs. Donka Banovic, when she asked to be left with six million, and to transfer 10 million to the Public Information Commissioner's control. With these 6 million U.S. will travel less to seminars, courses and other training and training, the government will probably work better as well. Besides, he won't pay for the information "Beta", "Fonet" and the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11985	The word is from MP Ljubomir Kragovic, the time available to the SRS parliamentary group is two minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11986	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to go out again just to clarify, for the sake of the citizens of KIM. A few nights ago, I showed you this copy of "Politics", where all those who do not have the right to free action, which the current Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic, has promised Serbian citizens. In the meantime, I pointed out that the injured Constitution, Article 20, 21, 23, 32, 38, 36, was a rude violation of the Personal Data Protection Act, but in the meantime it was denied that this number was the fault of local self-government. However, I contacted local self-governments at KIM and asked if it was possible that something required of us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or any of its authorities would not be delivered in time, and therefore one piece of information of nearly 100,000 people would be published in the media. They contacted the Privatisation Agency which published this, and the Agency conveyed a message that it apologized, that the Privatisation Agency had made a grave mistake, that it violated a few laws and that it violated the Constitution, that local self-government was not guilty and, on the way, promised to deliver a statement during the day to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to get to know the public that the Privatisation Agency had severely violated the laws and made mistakes. Meanwhile, in the media, and in the media probably in prime time tonight, "The Dnevnik" will issue a statement that, in this case, the list of citizens with KIM will also be blamed for the privatisation agency. What do they want with it? They actually want to prevent that, and it says here that everyone and those who are on this list have the right to file a complaint within a month, object, to protect their rights, so as not to burden the citizens of KIM further. They will publicly apologize and all these people who are on this list, and where it says they have no right to free action, in fact they will be withdrawn and they will be entitled to these free actions. The only left is for Mr Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to provide the funds and to share, both with citizens in Serbia and with the citizens of KIM and all who have applied for these free actions promised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I therefore point out once again and thank the Agency, and I hope that the president of the Assembly will read that letter in the course of the day, which she sent, so that she can get to know the public and not create a panic among the citizens of Serbs or Albanians in KIM, and here I see many Albanians who have signed these actions, those who recognise the state of Serbia. I am pleased that they will still exercise their right to be on that list. Will Dinkic keep his promise... (President: National MP, time available to your MP's group has been used. I'll talk to you about that later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11987	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, Sections 4 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11988	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, Section 4, Function 330, in EC 423 - contract service, in columns 6 and 8, the amount of two million is replaced by one million. In Article 5, Section 14, function 420, EC 451, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in a column of six amounts of 17 billion 285 million is replaced by 17 billion 286 million. In column 8, the amount of 17 billion 885 million is replaced by 17 billion 886 million. The amendment has not been accepted, and the motives of the SRS, you will see when I'm finished, are very honorable and fair and we want to submit these amendments that the budget, which is essentially catastrophic, we try to fix, in the sense that budgets are deployed as a good host would do in his house, taking care of priorities and existential problems. The government rejected this amendment, and the reason is that, starting from the defined obligations in 2009, the proposed funds to the EC 423-services under the contract are necessary to mark the jubilee for the establishment of the Constitutional Court, the construction and printing of suitable material, the redesign and printing of the constitutional court's bulletins, with a collection of court materials, decisions and views and the implementation of the court's legal obligation to provide the public with its work. Also, under the Constitutional Court Act and the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court, there is a obligation to hold public debates, consultations and other meetings to clarify complex constitutional and legal issues. This has the consequence of and necessary involvement of experts outside the court. The amount of copyright fees shall be determined by the General Act of the Constitutional Court. This economic classification also includes funds to ensure the costs of education and training of employees, participation in the cost of meetings organised by the European Conference of Constitutional Courts, participation in meetings in the country and abroad. This economic classification also includes the costs of the team, the use of buffet services, warm and cold drinks, which the Constitutional Court has in its activities at over 150 regular and other meetings and meetings of the Constitutional Court. The SRS proposal summarises this amendment in that the SRS considers it necessary to reduce these amounts for service costs under contract and the same amount of awareness in real terms due to the global economic and financial crisis and savings in state bodies. We believe that these savings should be transferred to subsidies for the development and improvement of agricultural production. As my predecessors have said, I would remind you that the proposal for this budget for the previous year for agriculture was reduced by one quarter, and if we know that the emerging economic crisis will not bypass Serbia's premises, we must be careful and try to focus these funds where we will need them for a few months, which is in agricultural production. As you know, agriculture has almost been destroyed in Serbia, and as you know, industrial production is also in the ever smaller development, we have problems at various levels, and agriculture is something we have for centuries, and healthy food, and resources that could give much more income, but the state, unfortunately, is not investing in it but investing, as you have seen, in something you can't live on. I'm not saying that these funds invested in that other direction would not give any controversial benefits for this society, but a good host first looks at how and how it will survive, and most of the citizens in this country are at the edge of the existence. I just remind you that agricultural producers, that various combinations that have worked in the previous period, have their fields burned because they have no funds, have no motivation from the state in this financial sense that they can develop their production and we base our needs on some surrounding European countries, primarily on Bulgaria, Greece and others, which have that part of production, this agricultural part is very developed and have huge income, as well as in exports, and in economic terms. I would ask those in charge of this to take a good look at this amendment of ours, that these funds, it's not a big number, it's one million just, they transfer in this sense, as the SRS suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11989	The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very interesting amendment, an interesting explanation, and I'm going to supplement a little bit of what my colleague Vukovic normally said well, but I need to remind the Serbian public that it's almost 4:00 p.m., that tonight is the last time he could, by law, vote the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year. I would also like to remind you that this draft budget has been delayed in the Assembly for more than 40 days, someone has calculated exactly 47 days today. Meanwhile, in the media, and also here, the ruling coalition MPs, if they come out from time to time to say something, are trying to draw attention that Serbia will not have a budget because the opposition MPs, and most of all the SRS, by participating in a debate on the budget, by submitting amendments and by explaining the amendments, will be the reason why Serbian citizens will not have a budget for next year. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens, completely different. It is true that the government of the Republic of Serbia, because of the impatience that exists in the government since its formation, is due to obvious disagreements in very important matters and segments of life, where individual representatives of the government speak openly and publicly about it. This was the reason why the government of the Republic of Serbia deliberately and knowingly did not send the draft budget to the MPs in time, in order to bring the budget as any normal state within the legal time limit. I also remind Serbian citizens, above all, that the deadline for budgeting is on the budget calendar of 15 December. So that deadline was long gone, and we couldn't reach that deadline. Obviously, there is a problem with the ruling coalition, I mean, first of all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, perhaps the MPs sitting here don't know it, but there are clearly different interests in the distribution of funds and therefore the part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia absolutely answers that the next financial year begins by making a decision on temporary financing. Why? Because the draft budget that we are discussing for some ministries defines smaller funds than those in the 2008 budget. Since government cannot agree who in the ministry and which ministry and which agency should tighten the belt, they decided to tighten the belt for Serbian citizens. Another warning to the citizens of Serbia. Dear citizens, they lie to you and will probably lie to you these days, that because we have submitted amendments and tried to arrange these amendments for your citizens to be better and to benefit from this budget, they will lie to you that because of these facts you will not receive regular salaries, social benefits, pensions, maternity services, etc. All of this, respected citizens, is not true, because this budget does not provide funds for maternity leave, for a newborn child will not be paid suddenly but for 24 wars, this budget provides you with less pensions. So, nothing they tell you because they can't meet their obligations that every normal government meets doesn't suit the truth, it's an attempt to make a wrong turn the other way. The amendment of fellow Members of Slobodan Vukovic, which concerns the costs provided for by the Constitutional Court, as well as most of our amendments, concerns services under contract and provides that the Constitutional Court spends 2 million dinars for services under contract. We think it's a lot and it needs to be halved and that the Constitutional Court is quite enough millions of dinars for services under contract for next year and that another million is transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture for the Subsidy of Agricultural Producers. We seem to understand what the real problem is and where the state should interfere through this budget and through certain resources, but unfortunately, those from the government have no hearing about what the real and essential problems are in the country. An explanation in the budget itself, not an explanation of what counterpart Vukovic commented on, but in the budget itself, is an interesting explanation for what all the two million that were intended to be spent on contract costs should be spent on. I remind you, these contract costs are something that's always suspicious and who knows how to spend it. So, in addition to what is said to be necessary to mark the jubilee for the establishment of the Constitutional Court, which is fine, for making and printing suitable material, redesigning and printing newsletters, I don't know why it has to be comfortable in redesigning the bulletin, that the press is okay, the Constitutional Court, with collections of court decisions and views, redesigning and enriching the website of the court. Here, therefore, instead of the Quiri was to be given to the Constitutional Court, so that they could edit their website, all in order to implement the court's legal obligation to secure the public of their work. Now it's going to be the most interesting. Also, according to the Constitutional Court Act and the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court, there is a obligation to hold public debates, consultations and other meetings to clarify and clarify complex constitutional and legal issues. This has the consequence of and necessary involvement of experts outside the court. Dear colleagues, who were you then elected to the Constitutional Court? Shouldn't the judges of the Constitutional Court be the greatest experts on constitutional and legal issues? Is it possible that you chose as judges of the Constitutional Court for people who have to hire experts, experts, as you say on constitutional and legal issues? This is really a scandal and a disaster. Then he says - it has the consequence and necessity of hiring experts outside the court, and the level of copyright fees is determined by the General Act of the Constitutional Court. This economic classification also includes funds to ensure the cost of education, training, etc. staff and costs of meetings organised by the European Conference of Courts, participation in meetings organised by constitutional courts, as well as the quotation for consultations in the country and abroad. Come abroad, I just don't know what our constitutional judges in the white world are going to do to comment on our constitution. I guess the Constitutional Court judges hold these consultations in Serbia, and they are being paid a quotation, not that they are going to listen. Who? Who can advise the judges of the Constitutional Court? This is really something amazing, and it's obvious that none of this is actually real, but that the 20 million provided for the cost per contract, I'm not going to question any of it, but let's say that the judge of the Constitutional Court can conclude a contract with his aunt, that his aunt declares an expert, and that the money is shared with her. I'm sorry, but based on this argument, it's all possible to question everything, and only this argument is proof that all these contracts, i.e. the funds, are designed for these contracts of work under very suspicious circumstances. That's why we insist, and that's why we're asking - come on, respect the law, respect the budget calendar, give us a timely final bill, give us a timely proposal... (President: Time. I'm finishing this sentence. ... Give us a timely budget proposal, and then we'll be responsible people to discuss it. And you don't give us the budget after the deadline when it's due, and today it's our fault that you won't adopt the budget until tonight. No, you want it to be that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11991	I sincerely hope that the SRS will contribute to that. I'm on your side in that case. On Article 5, sections 5 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Christin wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11992	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in front of fellow MP Momcilo Duvnjak, who has been objectively prevented, submitted an amendment to Section 14, paragraph 5, and when I say split 14, this applies to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, function 420, economic classification 451, which reads - subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations. In fact, Mr. Momcilo Duvnjak wanted in column 6 the amount of 17.285,000 to replace the amount of 17,315,000, namely, to increase 30 million dinars of subsidies for agriculture. Then, the same thing in column 8, the amount of 17.885,000, to be replaced by 17.915,000, which also says it wants to increase the Ministry of Agriculture by another 30 million dinars, since agriculture is in a catastrophic situation. On several occasions, I have been trying to make it clear how to help agriculture, where it is the fault of former ministers who are heartily, to God by passing some laws, thought a good part of the money would go to the municipality budget, so the provinces and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. But you had no understanding. Here, and in 2006, when the Minister of Agriculture was Ivana Dulic-Markovic, this famous law on the lease of state-owned agricultural land was passed, where we thought that by adopting this law, a good part of the money, which is from 100% in the lease of agricultural land 40% to the municipality, 30% to the province, 30% to the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, that law was passed. The ministry has passed on to municipal authorities that they must form commissions, and these commissions will form those commissions they will give and go to auctions in front of those municipalities for those who will bid. But it seems that it was then that Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic realized so that he should make something called the Paoric Mafia. I'm just going to use one short piece to read to you, and it's published by a newspaper that's been read a lot in Serbia. He says -- former agriculture minister and Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic, at the end of important state functions, continued her career as an influential Croatian lobbyist. For months now, he has been trying to kidnap more than 250,000 hectares of the Serbian state country and enable leading Croatian food and tycoons producers to fully take over Serbian agriculture. Dulic, using his organisation 100 P plus or 100 paora plus, is trying to break up large agricultural combinations, in which B92 and local Vojvodina media are selflessly helping her, headed by Mr. Pajtic and DS. Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic is only one in a row of those who abuse their role in the issue of state agricultural land and that function and continues in 2007 Minister of Agriculture Slobodan Milosavljevic. I'm going to show you documented how it was designed -- a man who approved that in 2007, those who rented state land don't pay anyone a dime. Ms. Dragutinović, you would have to consult with the Prime Minister a little bit, and you have that power to come to you through inspection services, which I will document, with 2,015 pages, I don't have room here to hold that purse, here, as I come from the Zrenjanin municipality, I will show you what's important to you. Again, I ask you to start to expose these things on the basis of your ministerial powers - what Ivana Dulic-Markovic and Mr Slobodan Milosavljevic did. It is interesting that you do not have the president of the commission anywhere in the Zrenjanin municipality in the record of the public auction, but is the deputy chairman of the commission, Halas Nikola. That's the gentleman who's still in custody for that construction mob, the famous Zrenjanin mob. So, he's the head of construction and land issue in Zrenjanin, even the deputy president of the land rental commission. Now we're not making any trouble here, but let's move on a little bit. You have a very interesting situation. Here he has a decision to rent agricultural land, where it says that Lukić Petra, with a home number etc., rents agricultural land in the state property of a total area of 78 hectares, half acre and 76 meters, located in the municipality of Zrenjanin, is also proposed that he enters the lease - like, he bought it. However, when you take the bidding list, all the people who bid, it is down to you -- the commission finds that the offerer number 14, AD "Diamant agrar", offered the highest price of 107,500 dinars, and it enters as the owner of the 78 hectares. Who has now won here, if it says that Lukić Petru is being leased agricultural land, the same area, the same area as the plots, and he gets this "Diamant agrar", bought by Mr. Todorovic, a Croatian citizen, and bought a diamond factory where the "Diamant agrar" belongs. The question now arises: why this land, which costs and is actually bought for 8.391,192 dinars or converted into Euros 103,000 euros and 422,70 cents, was not paid - no euro in 2007. Here's where you've already lost, gentlemen, 103,000 euros just for 78 acres. He gets the Diamond Agrar, but the Diamond Agrar that's in bankruptcy. It says "Diamant agrar" AD Zrenjanin, in bankruptcy. He bought another land, where it's said, that they have rights no matter what they're in bankruptcy. You know as a finance minister -- when one firm is in bankruptcy, who pays the rent. So, the court is in charge, of those who haven't settled their obligations as they arrive, that's how the court regulates it, and that diamond agrarian won't even give a dinar anymore, because he's in bankruptcy -- and he bought a lot of, a lot of land in the Zrenjanin municipality. What I came up with, when it comes to around the lease -- in the municipality of Zrenjanin, totalling 9,836 hectares for 2007, totalling 635,678,856 dinars. Of which, no dinars were paid in 2007. Of this in 2007, no dinar was paid, and you know that 40% goes to the municipality, 30% to the province and 30% to the Republic of Serbia. In 2008, it was paid, meaning the document which is the original, received from the municipality of Zrenjanin, paid only 32 entities, 32 persons, and total, ministers, amounting to 62 million. It's auctioned for 635 million, and all 62,664,068 is paid, and 40% belongs to that municipality - 25,065,602, 91. Here you can see how well it can be purchased agricultural land, that then Minister of Agriculture Slobodan Milosavljevic approves in 2007 - on the basis of the lease that they should not pay in 2007, because they have already sown the culture. And here it stands, the record from the public auction to choose the most favourable offerer for the lease of agricultural land in the state property, after an ad published in the daily newspaper "Dnevnik" on 17 March, and the public bidding procedure was conducted on 20 April 2007, now they simply took possession. It is not true that they, or in December 2006, were reported by the municipal commission that they would be leased, in fact, by public bidding -- that they should not enter into possession and sit, whether they would be the ones to be hired or not. They give themselves the right, in agreement with the same municipal commission -- that they can rent without paying the dinar, because that deal is half in their pocket and half in their bid. This does not apply to those individual agricultural producers, peasants, whom I apologize to because I have to mention these tycoons, who somehow managed to rent those 10, 20, 30 hectares, and those who have rented a lot, a lot more -- you simply made a contribution to themselves to work hundreds of acres, some working on thousands, not paying anyone anything, and you, just one such examination, see how much you could supplement this budget of yours. This budget, which is 40 days late, is you who are now putting it on the SRS that we are the culprits that this budget is due to be adopted by midnight today, and we just want to show the citizens of Serbia, to show our amendments how bad this budget is. A budget that, especially when it comes to division 14, will not do Serbia a bad state anyway, and I think that this budget, regardless of how it is considered to be restrictive, just because of this difficult economic situation in the world, Europe and our environment, does not mean that you have to blame the SRS for not wanting to adopt the budget. We want you to adopt it, but you should have thought about it 40 days ago, when you were supposed to put it in a procedure in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11993	Thank you. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 5 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so the amendment became part of the bill. On Article 5, sections 5 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Jojic, you want a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11994	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, Section 5, Chapter 5.3, Function 530, in the economic classification 511, where buildings and construction facilities in column 6 and 8 of the 300,000 should be replaced by a sum of 100,000 dinars. In Article 5, Section 14, function 420, economic classification 451, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in column 6, amounting to 17.285,000 is replaced by 17.485,000, and in column 8, amounting to 17.885,000 is replaced by 18.085,000. The government has not accepted this amendment. Since the government is trying to convince us that these funds are needed for purposes without being spent on these purposes, because they should start appeals courts in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad, including the area of district courts of those cities on economic classification 511. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is really inappropriate at this point, that something needs to be planned right now, that the money will not be spent on, but the taxpayers' money will be spent on other purposes, and not on the ones that the pronoun would like to preface and convince us that it is. Now a few notes regarding this budget. What is immediately seen at first sight to see that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009 has been increased dramatically, to the extent that it becomes unsustainable for taxpayers, because the figure that figures as the right amount of expenditure of nearly 750 billion dinars, on the remote side is enormously high, as well as earlier years, and thus the state has no intention of improving the environment for business activity and the life of ordinary citizens, but only increases the burdens on any fragile and broken economy and the impoverished population of Serbia. There is an impression as if there is no coming global economic crisis, which is why every government in the world has been seriously concerned about the future of its economy, and is also serious about these issues. Here, according to the budget and its structure, it can be concluded that there is no problem and that nothing bad will happen next year, so the plan is made as if the economy is going to have a boom, not a disaster. In particular, a dilettant approach has been forced, without sufficient analysis, in the worst case for Serbia, the introduction of a trade agreement with the EU that imposes a reduction in customs duties, which will cause invaluable damage to Serbia, primarily its economy, and in particular agriculture. By allowing imports of everything and everything, we will become a country of general waste for many products from Europe, losing large amounts of customs-based revenue, as if someone was racing to please foreign powers from the West and therefore the progress and the implementation of this part of the agreement, which is only going to Serbia, which is a completely incomprehensible solution. When you look at the very structure of the budget, just two or three sides ago, you're afraid of digits. All the billions of dinars themselves, spending on government affairs, which is due, which is the guarantee they've issued, so they need to guarantee a reconciliation of obligations or new responsibilities. Where the total public debt is added to this, as indicated under g) on page 7. The draft budget law is another whole budget, 759 billion dinars. The real question is the courage and madness of those who propose such a massive and dramaticly dangerous budget, which has no real chance of being realistically realized on these occasions. There are no savings elements in this budget, nor domestic relations to existing economic resources, nor to the population, and these are the only sources of revenue for this budget, so it is better for the government to give up this project and propose temporary financing, i.e. to withdraw or accept amendments to the SRS. In many places it is planned, especially at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, as I have seen, it is planned, and in billions, on behalf of subsidies many funds, without any legal obligation, but simply a description of the purpose, and a special curiosity which in the absence of legal regulations for these items only states that the funds will be used according to a special act of the Government. What does this mean? You give Mladjan Dinkic billions, which will be regulated by a special act of the government, to which these funds will be spent. The government will be the one to channel funds past parliament and past the law, which is an excellent maneuver for the ministry in which these funds are allocated, that the government proposes, in its opinion, spending money, which seriously threatens the budget in general, and leads to a begging stick of taxpayers. It is particularly indicative that such items do not have all the ministries, but only a single one, so it can reasonably be suspected that it is a political settlement, and especially since there are no government explanations in the budget, which is why my suspicion is increasing. Another important question I want to point out is this: because of my previous experience at the Ministry of Justice, I have re-analysed one section of the budget, which is the revenues from the court fees. Again, I claim, as before, that the laws are being broken and that the court fees and revenues from the court taxis are hiding, better said, are being kidnapped, in the sight of the entire judiciary and our general public. Court fees are paid by citizens and all those who seek justice in our courts. I will remind, ladies and gentlemen, that from the Law on Court Taxes, "Official Messenger No. 19/97", which in Article 51 regulated that the court fees are the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and in the position of the 2nd member is said to be part of the revenue from the fees paid by court fees of 90%, and is paid to the special account of the Ministry of Justice and benefits for improving the material position and conditions of work in judicial authorities. The Minister of Justice shall determine from a special account the amount belonging to the court, before which a court fee, or obligation, has been made. The budget regularly provides funds for the work of judicial authorities, revenue from the budget, according to all paragraphs, and this is an additional source of revenue, which wants to improve the material position of judicial authorities and the conditions of work in the judiciary. What is their position is well known to you, and it is also known to the general public, that the judicial authorities, and in particular the administration in the judiciary, are in a very catastrophic and critical state, whose salaries range from 12 to 17,18 thousand dinars per month. This is Article 51. The law on court fees has already been reformed in 2001, that there is no longer the authority of the justice minister in any way regarding the distribution of the part of the court's fees before which the obligation arises. They probably didn't believe the new minister of justice at the time, so they lifted this power, because in the new view of experts for finance is no longer relevant, and the percentage for the judiciary has been changed several times, so by changing from 2001, "Official Messenger 34/01", it was simply wiped out and done that the court fees were the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which should not be. This is a robbery by the judicial authorities. A new amendment to this member of the law came in 2002, "The Official Messenger 9/02", under which 50% of the fees of the court fees, not more than 90%, was set to improve the material position of judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, as well as the judicial supplement, as well as the equipment of judicial authorities, the material costs and special purposes for which it should be provided, especially for the administration in the judiciary. 'In 2004, with the re-change of this member within the same 50% percentage, the same purpose, it is envisaged that, according to the report, the judicial supplement is paid in addition to the so far-time users, the holders of judicial functions, and the judicial staff and staff in the public prosecutors,''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' With this member's latest amendment, adopted in 2005, in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia 61/05", everything is the same in terms of purpose. It's only a percentage from 50 to 60 and it's currently in effect. I especially stress this because of the new Justice Minister, who has all the useful information, and the court fees have been significantly increased, as we know. The government has proposed a large court fee, a parliament, that is, your majority adopted it, but the citizens of Serbia are paying huge taxes. These are the data from the regulations and obligations that have been established. As their implementation and respect for the law seems, and as far as the judiciary is concerned, it remains to judge for yourself. My assessment is that the judiciary was stopped in the period from 2001 to today by more than 5 billion dinars based on court fees. Have the government's representatives deprive me of the data. That my claim is correct, we point out that in this 2009 budget, the figure from the Justice Department is very modest, of around 4 billion and 600 million dinars, which is nowhere specifically shown in revenue, and it is mandatory for the Ministry of Finance to especially, as I said, by the Law on Court Taxes to show and record revenues from court fees in total, and then that total amount, belonging to a 60% percentage, to the judiciary, according to Article 51 of this Law. On page 2, point 2 of the bill writes nicely, taxes, economic classification 742, amounting to 15 billion 930 million dinars, and in the distribution to the judiciary only 4 billion and 600 dinars. Where's the justice money? Who robbed the revenues fees of the judicial authorities that they made? I'm asking if it's 60% under the law that belongs to the judiciary. And you can see for yourself that it's not, because 60% of 15 billion 930 million is even about 10 billion, or 60% is 9 billion and 600 million, exactly. It's a figure that belongs to the judiciary. To be correct, let's let the administrative income fees be included here, but they're much less involved. It is evident immediately that the Law on Court Taxes has not been applied and someone has stolen the judiciary from the achieved taxis a large amount that must be returned to the judiciary. In what way, you'll have to do it. So I would ask that the minister of justice, if he didn't do it...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11995	Mr. Jojic, speak a minute longer, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11996	Thank you. I'll call later and finish up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11997	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 5 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Dragan Stevanovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported that I am using the time that the SRS belongs to the Rules of Procedure, which refers to the explanation of this amendment, but I will certainly take the opportunity, at the expense of that time, to avoid reporting to the Rules of Procedure, so as not to give further reasons and motives to the ruling majority to further accuse the SRS that it is allegedly guilty of not adopting the budget tonight until 24:00. I'd like to give one piece of information and a heads-up to all the MPs who are here tonight. I guess that's interesting for everyone, I just got in touch with my party colleagues from Bujanovac. The subject of SO Bujanovac opened yesterday for the speaker, and it was said here that there would be attempts to remove two remaining directors of public enterprises, who are Serbs, from the post. The session was launched today and just moments ago the session was interrupted. The session was interrupted by the coherent functioning of political parties representing Serbia's national interests in Bujanovac, by legitimate political means, and all Serbs below managed to carry out a session there in mid-January. In this sense and in this context, here, I would also take advantage of the opportunity to call on the SRS on behalf of the Albanian political leaders, who, among other things, have their representatives here and who are here on this common life and community and the willingness to share all the burden of life below with Serbs, to find common language by January 15th and to show, again again, the commitment that all the burden of life that today's economic and political and social crisis with their countrymen, neighbours, Serbs, because the relationship present in that national structure in Bujanovac is not such that Serbs do not deserve and have the right to have their own representatives in public life. The difference is only a few percent. Once again, I appeal to them, if they are ready to criticise the government of the Republic of Serbia that it is not working properly, let them not respond to the reciprocity, but rather show good will and determination that they will and that they want to live down there with Serbs together. As for this amendment, submitted by my colleague Damjanovic, he refers to Article 5, Section 5, Chapter 5.15, Function 330, Economic Classification 426 - material, and is overall trying to transfer from that position 10 million dinars to division 14, function 420, economic classification 451 - subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations. Now we're going back to that story I told about when I was talking about the previous amendment. When you open the reasoning of this budget, what exactly is the head should in principle represent and what the cost of the funds is, when you get to chapter 5.15, that is the Council for Infractions, and now that I would not read everything, what it refers to is the material, it refers to administrative material, materials for education and training of employees, transport material, maintenance of hygiene and the last, material for special purposes. We don't even know where the funds are allocated, and we don't see what it's for, and we don't see it in reason. Therefore, the essence, anatomy and budget structure should be different. When things like this are defined, there's always room for manipulation, there's always room for doubt that someone's abilities and positions, that he has not very modest amounts of resources, that he has the opportunity and the temptation to create here any abuses, and I think that in the last few months, especially when it comes to public enterprises, what the state and whose officials, or heads of state, have set up, you have to admit that there have been little commitment to modesty, for rational, domestic behavior. It's an example to you, say, just an airport, not to go further into discussion. Madam Minister, it seems to me, when it comes to this budget and when it comes to this government, you had the most difficult and ungrateful task, to reason with the unreasonable, to bring the opposers together, and to translate it all into paper, so that it wouldn't be incorrect and theoretically wrong, to respect the procedures and to translate it into this budget. What seems devastating is the fact that it doesn't really exist and it doesn't get the impression that most of you want to adopt this budget. To repeat, it seems to me that most of you sitting behind you do not show the mood to adopt this budget. Whether they're doing it tenorously or not, it doesn't matter, but I think temporary funding is more appropriate for them. Whether it's the result of political conflicts in the government or whether it's a matter of financial and technical nature, it doesn't matter. Let me finish. You'll get a chance to finish, I hope, in January or February, when we talk about the budget. So you had one very ungrateful and very serious job. You, when it comes to this budget, did something that resembles grilled cheese. It's the only cheese that's more hollow than Swiss cheese, it's on the outside and it's seeing something, and it's hollow inside and there's nothing. Unfortunately, the burden of such irresponsibility will only be placed on your back, but I think it's unwarranted. It's objectively unwarranted. When we talk about this budget, I think there's been a lot of talk about that budget deficit item. I agree with you, I think you said the deficit in the budget was cemented, I think you put it that way, it doesn't matter. You can place it on paper, and you can factor it when you design it on the flat side. If there is political will and your commitment not to give in, the deficit will not increase. But there's something that you objectively can't control from your angle from this time distance and you can't imagine what's going to happen in three or four or five months. The budget deficit can certainly increase the revenue side. I agree, then there is a rebalancing, but who's going to pay the most in all of that, it can now objectively only speculate and assume. So maybe that's why all these things that are the subject of these amendments should have been denied as much as possible, and that, possibly, if tomorrow comes tomorrow, there's a need to supplement something here with some rebalancing and fill it in. This may lead you to the opportunity not to draw funds from here to heal the budget deficit, to find funds I don't know where and to deny some more important and much more important things for the funds they objectively need. You'll have big problems on the receiving side next year, and you're aware of that. You're the biggest, I'd say, in the government, critic of the unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and you can't deny it. I'm convinced that's because you're rational and because you know the job, but you're the victim of an unreasonable vice president of the government, and unfortunately that will cost us all, not just you in the government. You have a VAT-based income reduction due to a reduction in imports, that's one thing. Already now 30 to 50% of orders from abroad for the first two quarters have been reduced to our export sector. On that basis, we will have a cut in the revenue side of the budget. When you consider that strategic branches, which should be exported, through this budget are denied, do not have enough resources, say, in agriculture, then you ask an objective question as to how much of this budget structure will be able to monitor the economic opportunities that await us? Then we come up with that thing about applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Before I say, here, just look at this. This is a document I got yesterday, I'm not going to make a digression, it's the Alliance of Agricultural Cooperatives of Jablanic and Pcinj County, from southern Serbia, where it comes from. They were not paid premiums, regresses, subsidies for 2008. The state owes them that, too. What to expect and what message, how to experience it in 2009? What can they expect in 2009? We are talking about our development branch, or export branch, about a branch where you should expect the most in the context of revenue for 2009, 2010 etc. Then we come to a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, a one-sided application of it, where customs continue to fall, you knowingly give up 23 billion dinars, and on the other hand you're trying to make up for it through the increase of excise duties on something, and I was already talking about something that certainly no longer represents a luxury in this country. Even you in the government have ideas to raise tax rates. In times of crisis, it is completely wrong and you have to agree with me because it does not seem stimulating and does not constitute a subsidy, allow me, and does not represent stimulation, or subsidy, indirect subsidies to increase production in the following year. On these occasions, tax rates are shrinking, but the tax base is expanding. What is the chance to increase the tax base in Serbia in 2009, you know it best. How many opportunities and space do we have to develop production and put these production capacities into operation? We can't, because there's no money, the privatisation will go very hard and slow. What's important, you don't have to analyze last year, how much foreign direct investment has come into the country. You only need to analyze the next thing -- how much foreign companies have reduced investment levels in their budgets by 2009, at least when it comes to our area. That's where you'll be clear. So that's what I'm gonna end up with, you've had a very serious, ungrateful job. As far as you're concerned, I don't know, it doesn't matter, but it's unfortunate that you spend your effort, energy and knowledge on some people who don't respect it, don't appreciate it, and have no intention of dealing with the problems in 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u11999	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 5 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12000	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment that I suggest reduces the budgets for the financing of the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes. Of course, before I filed the amendment, I knew he wouldn't be accepted, but I'll take the opportunity to say something about the work of the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes. When the work and funding of this prosecution are at stake, I think, there are two options. The first possibility is that this prosecution is doing its job professionally and impartially. In that case, the funds that are intended for his work are not sufficient. They need to be significantly increased. The second possibility is that the prosecution continues to do as it does now. In that case, in my opinion, the funds not only need to be reduced, but the prosecution should be completely abolished and his duties transferred to the work of regular prosecutors. I simply believe that this prosecution does not do its job professionally, that it does it favourably, that it does not work in the interests of justice and in the interests of Serbia. On the contrary, I think he's doing it against each other. If a certain bias could be allowed in the work of the Serbian war crimes prosecutor's office, I believe it could be viewed solely in the fact that, during the process, the war crimes committed on Serbia's territory and on Serbian citizens should have the advantage. For this there are at least three reasons: the first reason is because it is quite normal and natural; the second reason is that the largest number of crimes and the most serious crimes committed in the last wars are committed precisely on the part of the Serb people; the third reason is that all prosecutors, who have been dealing with crimes committed since 1991, are doing their job biasedly. Ninety-four percent of the indictments are brought exclusively against the Serb people, while almost completely neglecting indictments, neglecting crimes committed against the Serb people. You have a case of the prosecution in Slovenia. You know that the war in Slovenia began by attacking their territorial and police units on JNA units. Several dozen young men, JNA soldiers, were killed in those attacks. To date, no charges have been filed in Slovenia, but dozens of charges have been filed against officers and soldiers of JNA, who have done nothing but carry out their constitutional and legal obligation. An even more drastic case is the work of public prosecutors in Croatia. You know that Croatia started a war on its territory by attacking the barracks of JNA and Serbian settlements in Republika Srpska. More than 7,000 Serbs were killed in those attacks, wounded more than 15,000. Croatia committed the biggest crime of ethnic cleansing in Europe since World War II. In Croatia, however, 99.5 indictments have been brought against members of the Serb people. More than 70,000 Serbs have been charged. Practically, everything that was adjudicated in 1991 was charged, which was male and Serbian. More than 2,000 Serbian people have been sentenced to long-standing prison sentences, mostly in absentia and without a valid trial. But that's why Croatians are free to walk hard-working war criminals, Croatians who have confessed to their crime. I'll just give you two examples. Mihajlo Hrastov admitted that he massacred 13 JNA soldiers on the Koran Bridge, who were bound or wounded. The trial at the County Court in Karlovac was initiated by ovations and ended in the same way. He's been relieved of any responsibility. Miro Bajramovic, who was a member of the special police, commanded by Tomislav Mercep, admitted killing more than 70 Serbs in Marina Selo and in the Paki plain with his own hand. But he also said that the unit, whose member he was, had killed at least 300 captured Serbs. And he's free of any responsibility. Of the 10 indictments filed by the BiH prosecutor's office, nine are against Serbs, one against Croats and Muslims, and it is mostly for crimes they have committed against each other. Thanks to this, there are still no charges of crimes, such as the massacre of JNA soldiers on Dobrovoljaka Street, the massacre of Serb civilians in Kupres, the murder of hundreds of captured Serb soldiers in Ozren, the murder of more than 5,000 Serb civilians in Sarajevo, the massacre of Serb civilians in Trnov, more than 400 Serb civilians were killed in the town. Without indictment, even the murder of more than 3,000 Serb people in Podrinj, in the area of Srebrenica and Bratunc. Here I have a list of 3,262 members of the Serb people who were killed in Srebrenica and Bratunac. At the end of my presentation, I will present this list to the president of the National Assembly and Minister Dragutinovic. Has anyone heard of any charges filed by the Unmika judicial authorities, or the Cypriot judicial authorities, for crimes committed against Serbs at KIM. We don't have charges like that. The same practice is being cherished by The Hague tribunal, three-quarters of the indictments have been brought against members of the Serb people. I'm just going to name one case that illustrates everything. The Hague prosecutor's office has requested a five-year prison sentence for Drazen Erdemovic, a Croat. Drazen Erdemovic admitted killing more than 120 people, proved to be killing more than 70 people. The D.A. asked him to be sentenced to five years, and he got that prison sentence. In parallel, you have the Vojislav Seselj case, which has been darkening in The Hague for six years because of the verbal delinquency. Any other comparison would be unnecessary. What does the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes do in Belgrade at the time? He's doing exactly what this numbered prosecutor's office does. Thanks to this, we currently have trials in Belgrade for crimes against Croatians in Lovas, a trial for the murder of 200 Croats in Vukovar, and we should have them, both, but that is why we have no process for killing more than 300 Serbs in Vukovar. We have a process in Belgrade for killing Muslim civilians around Zvornik, and we should have that process, but we have no process for killing more than 500 Serbs in Zvornik. We have a process for the murder of Shiptar in Podujevo, but we do not have a process for killing Serb civilians in Podujevo and other KIM sites. We have one completely schizophrenic, abnormal situation. The Serbian state's prosecution, a sovereign internationally recognised state, deals with crimes committed on the territory of another state, committed by members of the Serb people, but citizens of the other state, and crimes committed against the citizens of the other state. On the one hand, this could be interpreted as a diplomatic precedent, a diplomatic incident. Instead of dealing with crimes committed in Serbia's territory, committed against its citizens, the prosecution in Belgrade mainly deals with crimes committed against nationals of other countries on the territory of other countries. You know, when the prosecutor's office in Slovenia, the prosecution of the UN tribunal or the Sarajevo prosecutor's office presses charges against only the Serb people, against members of the Serb people, then it can and does not leave any greater consequences for international public opinion, because people are so smart as to conclude -- they have fought against Serbs and are now accusing only Serbs to transfer all the blame to the Serbian people. But when the prosecution in Belgrade does the same, then they have nothing left to do but to conclude that Serbs are the greatest culprits for the outbreak of wars and the greatest criminals in those wars. Now I'm going to talk about one job that the D.A. is supposed to be doing for war crimes. Serbia's state authorities have announced a lawsuit or a lawsuit will be brought before the International Court of Justice in The Hague against Croatia. The case should be the subject of crimes committed from 1991 to 1995. I believe that there is no legitimate legal, historical, national, state reason for the case, special lawsuits or special lawsuits to be committed by Croatia from 1941 to 1945. It is time for the world public to finally learn through one court case all the facts about how the Croatian state was built on a genocide crime, in which more than a million members of the Serb people were killed. A team before there are still tens of thousands of evidence that points to and confirms these crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, in my hands is a list I promised 20 days ago -- a list of 19,432 children who were killed in the Jasenovac camp. On this list, children are lined up in order by birth, by municipalities and by republics, the name and name of each child, the name of their parents, the time and place of birth, the time and place of the murder is stated. The most murdered children are from the territory of Croatia - 10,064 children. Of these, 6,107 children from Western Slavonia, 8,030 people were killed from BiH to Jasenovac. I will list only one information, only 3,689 children were killed from the municipality of Bosnia Gradiška. In Jasenovac 1,100 children from Srema were also killed, mainly from territory within the Republic of Serbia. Here are only two data, a hundred children were killed from Zemun, and from Belgrade, on this side of Sava, 32 young people. Of the total number of children killed in Belgrade, 35 are from the Jovanovic family. Viewed by age, 1,687 children were killed in Jasenovac who were 14 years old, 1.155 children aged 13 years, 1.525 12 years old, 965 11-year-olds, 1,324 ten years old, 1,095 nine years old, 1,250 eight-year-olds, 1,316 children aged seven. I ask the President of the National Assembly to ask DS MPs to keep their voice down, if possible, because of this subject. If you don't respect me from the SRS Parliament Club, I think this subject deserves to be quiet. Furthermore, 1,417 children who were six years old, 1,428 five-year-olds, 1,540 four-year-olds, 1,591 three-year-olds, 1,493 non-two-year-olds, 1,1552 one-year-olds and 495 boys and girls aged several days to several weeks. The average age of children on this list of 19,000 children is seven years and three months. Unfortunately, the number of children killed in Jasenovac is estimated at 50,000. To this day for their death absolutely no one answered. They were killed by the state of Croatia. Here, Minister Dragutinovic says that your mother was murdered, survived Jasenovac, was a camper in Jasenovac. They were killed by the same Croatia whose lawsuit today faces Serbia's International Court of Justice for the alleged crime of genocide. Brothers and sisters, I believe, and I will conclude this, that there is no moral, state, national, national, historical and legal reason for the state of Serbia to collect all existing evidence and bring suit against Croatia for crimes committed from 1991 to 1995 and for crimes committed during World War II. There is absolutely no reason why Serbia would not press charges, and in order to make these lawsuits as basic as possible, the war crimes prosecutor's office in Belgrade should do its job. If he starts doing this job, then the funding for his funding should be more than expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12001	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12002	My fellow Members, Serbian citizens, Mrs Comic, as chairman, I would like to inform all my fellow Members and colleagues, as well as the public of Serbia, that the intention, which the Serbian Progressive Party as the Forwards Club gave Serbia on the first day at the beginning of the debate on amendments, and practically realised by submitting a written submission to the office at 16.40 p.m. on the withdrawal from the 28th Amendment procedure of 33, which we have submitted as a parliamentary club. In the procedure of Ms Dragutinovic, four amendments adopted us on behalf of the Government, and I am taking the opportunity to say that it is not about formal-technical and editorial amendments, but about very important amendments that introduce a new order in the management of the space for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is competent and authorised. That loans cannot be written off from the budget without criteriaumai procedures, that new financial commitments can not be introduced by regulations lower than the law, i.e. to pay, and that the state finally, as the Ministry of Finance, and the competent committees of the Assembly receive information on the assets, i.e. the funds achieved in the privatisation process. Of all the other 29 amendments, only one will remain in the procedure because we want MPs to declare the amendment to Tomislav Nikolic, at the cost of providing legal assistance to Serbian citizens against whom the tribunal is being conducted. And all 28 amendments, submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Antić, Prof. Dr. Zoran Mašić, Mico Rogovic, Prof. Dr. Mileta Poscurica, Jelena Budimirović, Vuceta Toskovic, Stefan Zankov, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Predrag Mijatović, Bozidar Delic, Dragan Colić, Milan Knezevic, Otto Kišmarton, Sasa Maksimović and Gojko Radic, are withdrawn from the procedure because we do not want you to waste time even in statements and appreciate that it is very important for Serbian citizens to get the budget for this year. We did not want to wait for anyone else to come forward and join this initiative, but we expect all those who have shown constructiveity to prove that they are really interested in Serbia's citizens in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12003	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 5 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia on Article 5 of this Law, i.e. to Section 5, Chapter 5, Title 330, an economic classification relating to machinery and equipment, where the amendment requires that the amount of 4,635,000 be replaced by 2,635,000 in column 8 of 4,656,000 is replaced by 2,636,000. Also, regarding this member again, practically not to quote everything, these funds that would be saved in the position of the above amendment would be relocated for subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations and would then be added to those items. The SRS considers it necessary to reduce the amounts for machinery and equipment and, as I said, to target these funds towards subsidies and above all for agriculture. If this were some normal time, I would have submitted an amendment, but completely contrary to this amendment from now on. Since times are what they are, I'll tell you why I did what I did. In normal times, I would ask for an increase in the item for machines and equipment, because we know that the expression machine and equipment, which means, at least it was a long time ago, investment, and the investments themselves carry the opening of jobs, prosperity for the state and society. However, today everything has somehow changed its meaning since the coming DOS to power and since the arrival of DS, everything has a different meaning, so this expression of machines and equipment makes sense. Today, under machinery and equipment, cars, laptops, cell phones, office furniture, and perhaps a business escort, who will already know what this is all about. This appropriation is intended to cover: You yourself know the situation in our agriculture. We had a chance the other day on one of the TVs to see huge quantities of milk spill, because simply peasants, or producers of that milk, are trying in their own way to express their revolt towards how the government treats them. So we should not forget agriculture, because we know that in many of the times behind us, in many difficult times agriculture has preserved this country and this society. Let me say one more thing about this whole budget. I would indeed ask the ruling majority and Mrs. Finance not to blame the SRS for the fact that this budget is not adopted within the foreseen deadline. Just remember how many times, and practically since September 2, we've been minors in a permanent session, how many times you couldn't collect, so this assembly took a break in its work. Not to mention that break of the month and a few days this summer when you couldn't prepare or didn't want to prepare a report on the arrest of Radovan Karadzic and the events that took place at the SRS rally. Remember how many times we were in a session that had a large number of points, because you couldn't provide the majority, you couldn't have had a united debate at some points, which according to the Rules of Procedure deserve to be joined together, then the debate went to every point in particular. We've only lost a few days here. I don't want to list everything, you've received today's notice that tomorrow this Parliament is also working on an ambush, which is why it is ambushed. Because you need to start applying a law that you have passed before, move because you were unable to provide the assumptions that were necessary to apply the law. Please, tomorrow, when we meet in this PDO room, don't say, "Here's today" or tomorrow, the citizens of Serbia and taxpayers will cost five million dinars and don't accuse the SRS of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12005	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 5 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12006	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here in this right hand I hold a book and in this left budget. I'm sure Mrs. Comic will ask me what this book and this budget have in common. There is, Mrs. Comic, now you'll hear. Tadic gave the actors in the book, believe me, a lot of money, more than 2m euros, to destroy the SRS. To destroy the SRS and, believe me, it didn't work out. They made only one small hole, where one ordinary one, not to say for this pay phone something that doesn't look like the MP, but it went away, we cut into the SRS, and we threw out, but they betrayed and left those who were never essentially Serbian radicals. What does the budget have to do with anything? That money, which these actors got, if you gave this budget, would have been a pretty good budget. Basically, the budget is not good for Serbian citizens and for everything this budget should show in 2009. I will refer to this amendment that I submitted to the proposal on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which reads - in Article 5, split up 5, Chapter 516, Function 330, in the economic classification of 423, contracted services, in column 6 amounting to 36,000,000 is replaced by 16,000,000, and in column 8 the amount of 36,000,000 is replaced by 16,000,000. In Article 5, Section 14, function 420, economic classification 451, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in column six amounts of 17 billion and 285 million is replaced by 17 billion and 305 million, and in column eight amounts of 17 billion and 885 million are replaced by 17 billion and 905 million. The Government replied that this amendment does not accept with the following explanation: the amendment is not accepted for the reason that, in order to reduce the planned funds of the municipal authorities for violations of the economic classification of 423, the service under contract was impossible to refinance services under contract, relating to administrative services, computer services, information services and professional services, in fact defence fees under official duty, compensation to experts, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, if the government has a desire to show savings, which we will need in this time of crisis that is coming, and I better say that it has already come, the least she could do is show that savings in action, which is through this budget that we are discussing today. However, it is obvious that the government is telling a story for the media about alleged thriftiness, and a whole other thing is talking about realisation through this budget. The SRS considers it necessary to reduce the costs of the work of the state authorities. Services under contract, dedicated funds for this purpose are huge, almost 36 million dinars. I believe that during the time of the general crisis and the lack of money, budget items that are not so necessary for the normal work and functioning of the work of state authorities and organisations, because just saving and reducing certain items are the basis for the mitigation of the negative economic effects that we can expect due to the global economic financial crisis, which will affect the Republic of Serbia in its monetary, banking, economic and economic life during 2009. The SRS, by submitting amendments, tried to point out to the legislator of this law that there exists in the budget of the internal reserve of certain budget items, such as the following economic classifications: contracted services, often these services, Madam Minister, a polygon for various corruption and marifetteluks, special services also similar to these contracts, a reduction in representation, are necessary for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to know that these costs are to be minimised, as SRS says all the time. Normally, costs must be reduced to ensure safety in this difficult time. The cost of materials should also be reduced and savings in the purchase of consumables, office paper, hygiene and other consumables should be introduced. All other material costs must also be reduced. I think this is the only government that doesn't want to adopt the budget right now. That works for them. Here's an example. If the SRS were to withdraw all amendments, believe me, as we've been informed, Mrs Jerkov publicly stated that LSV would not vote for this budget. The point is, there's something going on with you. The point is that one of the basic things is just your feud between the Feds, between the ministry and that has brought a delay in this 40-day budget. All ministers wanted as much for their ministry as they could, most likely not to adopt the budget, and you will move on to the temporary funding, which at this point suits you the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12007	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of fellow Sulejman Spaha refers to Article 5, Section 5, Chapter 5, 5, 6 means municipal authorities for violations. What was proposed by this amendment? In order to re-contract services, the same thing we've talked about many times today, here for municipal authorities for violations of contract services are provided for in the amount of 36 million and thousands of dinars. The proposal is to replace that amount with 16 million dinars, that the rest of the 20 million dinars actually be transferred for subsidies to agricultural producers. That's what SRS MPs' intensity is and it's going through almost all the amendments, because we think that in this budget it just had to be taken care of, to take care of agriculture because it's the only thing that's left is how much more healthy in Serbia. We can't rely on industrial production because you destroyed it, it's gone in Serbia. The only thing Serbia can seriously count on is agriculture. For that reason, we've asked all of these of us otherwise suspicious items of service to the agreement, let's not be so rigorous as to ask it to be deleted, but to significantly reduce it we certainly think it has elements. I'm looking at this section relating to municipal law enforcement agencies and, of course, according to the items there goes the part for wages, social contributions, fees in nature, that's also something that's not quite clear what it's going to be in the law enforcement bodies to be a fee in nature and to which it has an amount of 18 million and 301 thousand. But then we have something that I don't know whether to say it's sad or funny, social contributions to employees worth 2,000 dinars. So, two thousand dinars in a year on behalf of social benefits to employees. Madam Minister, why did you even enter this item, just to make some calculations, to agree on your income and expenditure figures in the budget? This is really funny. In the next part, you're talking about employee fees, employee benefits and other expenses, but now I'm going to say something from this explanation of yours. The municipal body for the violations, you say, the Law on Court Order is prescribed that the judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia belongs to the courts of general jurisdiction and special courts. Special courts are set up in criminal courts. Namely, a transformation of municipal law enforcement authorities into criminal courts will take place since November 2009. In the structure of the defined funds, the most significant costs for staff expenditure, fixed costs and services per contract are the costs. Permanent costs, economic classification 421, relate to costs of payment and banking services, energy services, municipal services, communications, mailing of letters are the highest costs, insurance costs, lease of assets and equipment. Now I'm asking you, Madam Minister, not to let what's waiting for us tomorrow, are you sure you're going to provide all of this when it's a lease of property and equipment, and I'm guessing there's a place to rent a business space, given the new network of courts you've been predicting since the beginning of 2010. So 2010 should be the year in which you will complete the preparation for the application of this law, which provides for a brand-new network of courts. I don't know if you planned to move them to larger headquarters, or district headquarters, if you planned to sell these facilities, to issue these facilities, because in many places in Serbia, we won't have the need to exist anymore, that we have facilities or business premises in which the municipal authorities worked for the violations, how you baptized them here. Underneath that, you've written the courts, but they're not courts yet. The question is whether, since you have failed to apply any law in the area of justice from the first attempt, it is difficult to expect that this will happen to the authorities now and to future courts for violations. I think there should be a little more coordination in the government that there's more to agree on such things, that you're not surprised by each other, that is, when we bring you here some facts that you from your neighboring ministry have no idea about. You said that the amendment to Sulejman Spaha would not be accepted for the reason that by reducing the planned funds to municipal authorities for violations of economic classification 423, services under contract, the financing of services by contract would be impossible for administrative services, computer services, information services and professional services, defence fees under official duty, compensation to experts and at all services. I understand this part about defense by official duty and witch fees, but I don't understand-- administrative services and computer services and information services, does that mean that you plan to fire all dactylographs who are now employed in the law enforcement agencies, you have no intention of translating them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12009	People's emissaries, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12010	I'm finishing up, so this is also from the questions I expect to answer, I hope until 24 o'clock tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12011	Anyone else want a word? On Article 5, Sections 5 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the word has a folk letter from Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12012	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this amendment in Article 5, section 5, chapter 5.4, function 330, in the economic classification 423 - contract service, in columns 6 and 8 of the amount of 11 million and 500,000 dinars is replaced by 5 million dinars. In Article 5, Section 14, function 420, economic classification 451 - subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations in column six amounting to 17 billion 285 million is replaced by 17 billion 291 million, and in column 8 amounting to 17 billion 885 million is replaced by 17 billion 891 million. The submission of the SRS amendment requires a different redistribution of the budget. So we ask this amendment to reduce the amount of 11 million and 500,000 dinars, for services under the State's Grand Prosecutor's contract, by 6 million dinars. In a situation where the Government is calling for savings, and since we can only spend as much as we can, we believe that this solution is very useful, because the mention of the amount in terms of the economic crisis is reduced to a real level. On the other hand, this allows us to reroute the funds mentioned in those areas that enable us to achieve greater revenues in the coming period. We believe that our country cannot easily give up strategic important industries such as agriculture and that we have to invest more in it, instead of destroying it. Therefore, the reduction in the type of budget expenditure mentioned allows us to increase the funding for subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations within the Ministry of Agriculture. We need to give greater support to agriculture, which has been denied this budget for significant financial resources, primarily by reducing subsidies. The prime minister said the budget is a development-incentive, how restrictive such a development-incentive. If he's stimulating, we have to ask ourselves, isn't it important for the state to invest in agriculture? Did the government give up this strategically important business branch by deciding to reduce its subsidies, with an absurd explanation of the generous reduction of funds for this purpose, is actually a prioritization of the areas to be subsidized. You, respected Ministers Mrs Dragutinovic, responded to our criticisms - that subsidies as a percentage of GDP are higher than in countries in the region. We are talking about Serbia, as the budget applies to our country. We can compare the data and facts that apply to another country. However, we cannot use it differently as an excuse for our decisions. Other countries may not have such a need for so many subsidies, or they have otherwise come up with and created their own economic policy. If that's what you're saying, I'd ask you why don't you say something like that when it comes to -- the height of the agricultural budget? In almost all EU countries, whose ruling coalition is more difficult, the agrarian budget is the main support for agriculture. You claim that agricultural subsidies in the rebalancing fell significantly for a reason, because preliminary controls found that the number of beneficiaries of these subsidies increased and that all the legal persons who gave land to their employees were responsible so that they could be users of these subsidies. If it's a fraud, why didn't the competent state authorities react? More money doesn't mean better service -- I could agree with you. However, I don't know how to interpret your explanation that this will achieve better control of spending. Who's going to control it? Maybe a state audit institution that doesn't work and only exists on paper? Who's going to control how budget funds are spent? Will the MPs have a chance to discuss this? I find that inconclusive at this point. Article 64. The law on the budgetary system on June 15th was defined as the deadline under which the Ministry of Finance is required to prepare the draft law, and July 15th is the deadline when the government delivers it to the National Assembly. That deadline is not respected. The law arrived with a delay in the Assembly and did not arrive on the agenda. In addition, as is the case with the draft budget for next year, when there is a replacement of thesis and it is said that the SRS is guilty, although it has the right to submit amendments until its right is lifted. The National Assembly shall consider the draft final budget account, in the opinion of the State Auditing Institution. So, after the Ministry of Finance draws up a draft final account of the Republic's budget, and the Serbian government adopts it in the form of a bill and forwards it to the National Assembly for further consideration and adoption, there is a legal obligation for the final account of the Republic's budget to pass through an external audit. Also, let me remind you that he's a 35. The Law on the State Auditing Institution stipulates that the State Audit Institution will each year adopt a revision programme for the following year, which must include, among other things, the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Provisions of Art. In 43rd and 47th of this law, it is prescribed that the DRI will report to the National Assembly by submitting a report on the revision of the Republic's final budget account. I didn't notice anything like that happened. The government is reducing subsidies to agriculture, as well as other expenditure, due to the poor economic situation. On the other hand, the government is not giving up on the unilateral implementation of the January 1st Transition Trade Agreement, which will produce a 267m-euro deficit in the state register, according to a 19.12m-euro course this year. The SAA will further tear down agriculture. In addition, individual representatives of the government argued, until they changed their minds. Agriculture Minister Sasa Dragin, a few months ago, on the issue of a farmer -- will he protect a Serbian farmer when the SAA applies as of January 1st -- replied: "As you know, the Ministry of Agriculture opposed the unilateral application of the SAA in this year, because the fact agreement means that every year we lift customs duties on imports of agricultural products. In fact, it would be crazy to open up more than we have to in the year when we are not becoming a candidate country for EU accession. '"These claims and fears were made by Minister Dragin on September 27th for a leaf. "The unilateral application of the SAA by Serbia is not in the interest of our country's agriculture at the moment. On the first day of the implementation of the SAA, we will abolish customs duties for 40% of domestic agricultural and food products, about 1,000 products, at a time when we are far from ready for the upcoming competition in EU products, often multiplely subsidized compared to ours. Serbia does not have enough resources to improve the competitiveness of domestic agriculture, and EU pre-accession assistance for this purpose is not yet available. ''I ask Minister Dragina, although she is not here - what has changed so much and has our country received firm guarantees that she will become a member of the EU in the coming year, in order to start applying the SAA and, as he says, to open up more in a crazy way? Of course we have no guarantees, of course nothing has changed, of course the government will not protect the Serbian farmer in 2009. About how bad the SP will cause for our economy, above all agriculture, my colleagues have spoken. Regardless of all this, Minister Dragin shows one inconsistencies in his statements and policy of alleged concern for Serbian agriculture. So Minister Dragin changes his mind and attitude and 28.12. The Beta Agency gives the following statement: "The first year of the honeymoon is in the taking-off of customs duties. For this reason, we will not have bigger earthquakes, nor will any important segment of agricultural production, nor wartime, nor livestock, be threatened. "Let me remind you, on September 27th, the same minister claimed that the first day of application of the SAA would be suspended customs duties for 40% of the product. Yesterday, the same minister, he told us that the first year of implementation of the agreement would be the year of the honeymoon. On 27 September, the minister said that we are far from ready for the upcoming EU product competition, and yesterday, on 28 December, he argues: "Home products, regardless of the suspension of customs duties on EU goods, can be competitive with the help of the state. ". To repeat and conclude, a Serbian farmer and Serbian agriculture will not be protected in the coming year, they will be left to themselves. Not to apply the SAA as of 1 January, but also to reduce agricultural subsidies. I also want to ask the prime minister - whether the government has a strategy for the development of agriculture. In doing so, I don't mean a set of laws in the area of agriculture that are in preparation, or the creation of agricultural commercial land, because as long as there is no strategy, they'll be just a dead letter on paper. If there is a strategy, it would be the turn to discuss it in this House. I'm afraid it doesn't exist and that decisions, based on a strategically important economic branch, are made by ad hoc, without plans and programmes. counterpart Martinovic criticised yesterday the proposal to allocate 90% of the funds from the sale of NIS to Vojvodina's budget. In doing so, he explained that it would be of no benefit to the citizens of Vojvodina. I agree. If you wanted to show concern for the people of Vojvodina, you could have taken more care of agriculture. You're doing this directly against the citizens. Finally, to conclude, many of their decisions are ruled by the government of justice by the global financial crisis. Right then, the financial crisis was supposed to be the main motive for the government to focus more on agriculture, because in crisis situations people give up everything, only finding money for food. What will those who have a salary of 16,000 dinars, will they travel, will they buy white technique? No, they'll only stand out for food. Because of that and a number of other things, most likely, the only production that will work in the next period is agriculture. However, the situation of agriculture is getting worse instead. The forecasted agricultural budget is lower by 24%. There is no single economic policy for the development of agriculture. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled a number of amendments predicting more money for agriculture. If you can't accept everything, accept at least some, because more money for agriculture, better for the state, better for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12013	The word is from Ambassador Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12014	According to the Rules of Procedure, very short. It's December 29th, close to 17:45. There are about 200 amendments left to the Republic of Serbia's budget that have not been discussed yet and will obviously not be discussed tonight, because there is obviously no time. We of the DSS, who have submitted amendments, have submitted well-founded, meaningful amendments, with a desire to be accepted. We had a conversation with the finance minister, some of them were accepted in the conversation, some were not accepted unfortunately, one of the key amendments that had done something useful for Serbia's local self-government was accepted. We've talked a lot about all this, but that key debate of MPs with the government of the Republic of Serbia on the proposed law in this House, precisely through the amendments submitted, and that key discussion about the budget itself cannot be brought to an end here, because there are no technical options, which the ruling coalition is guilty of, which is the fault of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Because in this country, she spent 45 days of summer working hard, working from me, and on the stand when it comes to legal proposals and the work of the National Assembly during the fall, making pointless proposals and not drawing points from the agenda, which cannot be easily adopted here, because the whole public of Serbia is against them, and part of the ruling coalition. You have worked backwards and against the interests of the citizens and you owe us at least 29 legislative proposals that had to come and be adopted by the end of this year, but not because they are in the process, so the National Assembly has not been able to adopt them, but because they have not passed the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because there you cannot agree on how to work and how to function Government and your cabinets. This is the reality Serbia faces today. We are therefore in a situation today that we cannot end a debate on the budget, the most important financial law in a year. We have our amendments. They stay on the table. It remains their explanation. I just want to say for the public's sake, that the public needs to know that we can't force ourselves to work, that we can't forcely end today, and that we can't pack up in a decent seven, eight, nine or ten minutes of debate on one amendment in the next four or five hours and that we can still vote for it. That's physically impossible. We just can't do it. You have deprived us, the government of the Republic of Serbia has deprived the opposition and the citizens of Serbia representing the opposition in this parliament of its fundamental right. That's why the result is very simple. It's almost six o'clock now. What's the point? We can simply tell you a simple sentence, those amendments are on the table, they have an explanation. Unfortunately, because of you, we won't be able to explain them tonight. It's an obvious thing, and that's how this thing's gonna run. Here you go. You're doing your job the way you started it. You started it very badly. You have proposed an inflationary budget, an unsustainable budget, a budget that will hit citizens' pockets because it provides for a unilateral application of the SAA, which will put this country at a time of economic crisis in an extremely difficult position and that is what awaits Serbian citizens in the coming period. Here, do your job. For the amendments we have proposed, which you have accepted, we will certainly vote, and against the budget we will be 150%. Because this country and these citizens deserve much better than what you've offered them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12015	The word has an MP, Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12016	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is approaching six hours, the time when we should have agreed to finish one job. We don't answer for days, we don't interfere with work, we help to get this job done as soon as possible, and you gentlemen from the ruling coalition are silent, that's none of your business. You're laughing, you're having fun here in the halls. There aren't many here today in parliament. The party's going on. You've been caught in a New Year's Eve mood. I can see that. We expected today, as agreed with the prime minister, ministers, prime ministers to appear and see what happened to the amendments we submitted. You, to this day, the end, is over, you don't know what you've adopted, or whether you'll accept. I thank the finance minister. She's a correct woman. She's been sitting here for days, but she's powerless. She's accepted a lot of things. For example, Kalanovićka won't, this won't, the younger won't, the Pera won't, won't talk. What are you? Are you one government? Do you want someone to give you some charity here tonight? What do you want? Why don't you finish the job? You've been talking for days. The vault is empty. You don't have a dinar. Where's the money? I ask for days, where's the money from Mobtel, from the Robing Houses, where's the money from the third operator, 2 billion 260 million euros? Where's the money? Why did you go bankrupt before New Year's Eve? We're talking 2009 funding. Where are the transfer funds for the municipalities? Will kindergartens, municipalities, officials receive salaries? He won't. There are no dinars in the vault. Get serious, gentlemen. New year's coming in a day or two, Christmas. It's going to be a holiday. From what to celebrate the people? Hundreds of people report, Serbia has no bread to eat. Electricity is being cut across Serbia. Do you see the cold outside, what it's all about? You guys, instead of getting serious, come talk, talk, talk, you keep your mouth shut. Shut up. You wait six hours and then you charge the opposition with guilty of not adopting the budget. Where was your budget? You brought it in the other day, a bad budget. How can you put 12 billion Kalanovics in her possession? I specifically asked that it be shared where it is necessary for people to have water to drink, to get the way, to arrange what was necessary. He says not to Kalanovic. It's not her dowry, people. How can we adopt in the budget an item of 12 billion, that it has, as if it were her grandfather's? What does that look like? Let's not talk about 70 billion that aren't defined where they're going. We want to know when every MP goes back to his municipality and when someone asks him if there's a plumbing, if there's a sewer, if there's something to say -- yes, it's planned. We don't know anything like this. We adopted something blanco, so we'll see what happens. That's not how it works. I expected you to be serious, to come here as serious people, to invite the heads of Parliament to make a deal. We are not opposition to Serbian citizens, if we are opposition to one incompetent government. If you were capable, you'd finish the job on time. You're getting us into trouble. He says it'll work tomorrow, maybe 31. Are you out of your mind? You didn't work when it was time. We've got some night sessions. What's wrong with you people? You know who works at night? We come here at 10:00, and we work as vampires all night in this House. Please, call Mirko Cvetkovic, he's got another 15-20 minutes, so let's make a deal, if he can. Don't accuse the opposition afterwards. The opposition did everything. She was constructive, she made arrangements, she came in, she met, she gave amendments to fix the bad budget. Don't humiliate us so much you won't accept anything. It's very humiliating to us. So much, and you do whatever you want. Understand that you are responsible for what you are doing and that you are responsible for the people of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12017	Anyone else want a word? National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12018	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what the government is doing since its formation can't be called anything other than an economic genocide, and that's what the citizens of Serbia feel and will feel. The state of parliament, as functional as it is, does not depend on the MPs, depends solely on the Serbian government. Relations in the Serbian government, between the coalition, are those reflected in parliament. Disputes in the government are transferred to the atmosphere in parliament. While you in the government are fighting over the NIS, whether it should be done one way or another, Dinkic wants one thing, Cvetkovic the other, or Tadic the other, Dacic makes something third, both of which, distracting the public with this or that, parliament suffers and insists that you pass the most important law. And you have, of course, the support of all the media, who say, if there is no budget - the flood. You wait, you have a watch, you have a receipt, you know how many amendments have been filed. You count and watch in an hour if it'll be by 12 o'clock or not. If so, you take responsibility for what will happen, or for not having money for all budget users, because it is clear that there is no money in the state and that there will be less than you have projected, and you have projected a deficit of 49.6 billion. We know that with the unilateral application of the SPP, the money will be even less, and the need even more. You expect it may not be the adoption of the budget, and if it doesn't, someone has to be guilty. Who's to blame? The government can't possibly be guilty. All the TVs, all the newspapers will be in office of the government, the government has delivered the budget, MPs have written no idea how many amendments, what they even needed to do, as if we're doing what we want, and not because we see that one devastating economic policy is being conducted, I'm going to say again, economic genocide, and we're trying to save what can be saved. The government is stubbornly staying with it, will not take responsibility for itself, is looking for the culprit, waiting for the captain to see how the applicants of the amendment, or the opposition political party, behave, and then, if he fails to vote the budget, to blame those parliamentary groups that remained in their amendments. And did we write the amendments from the obstetrics or because the citizens expected us to, because they are our pre-election promises, because they believe in us, they asked us to, of course it remains only for this room and for us 250, no one will be able to hear it anywhere but from this pay phone. It might be the SRS, and you're all going to race to go on TV, on special shows to spit on the SRS, they didn't let the most important law be passed, that's why you won't have a maternity allowance, you won't have pensions, there won't be a subsidy to agriculture, and we're gonna chew up talking here for days that it's impossible because you haven't been able to redistribute what little money from this country can drain. It can't be drained out of dry Drenina anymore. The people don't have money, the economy doesn't exist. From whom will you take taxes, from whom will you take taxes, from whom VAT, excise, what will the SAA bring you? Will we ever here, we MPs, us 250, tell the citizens of Serbia once the truth, let's say, my people, the state of the country is disastrous because of that and that. Who brought us into this situation? I'm not saying it's just this government. There's this inherited problem, there's this foreign factor, there's this international situation, we're not exactly guilty of everything, but let's just open up one card and let's tell them, well, the next one's gonna be difficult because of that and that, we're gonna feel the consequences of this or that, but we're gonna do everything we can in one way or another to mitigate the consequences of that crisis, but that's why in the next two years, or in five years, or we're gonna have some shift, we have a strategy, we know what we want. Where is Minister Cvetkovic today, Prime Minister? Where is he? Where are the other ministers today? Believe me, just since 2000, we've had one minister in charge here who's obliged to listen to us. There's always been a whole government and never been a session this long because of that, because when there's a whole government, there's a different atmosphere, there's a different responsibility. What can we tell Mrs. Dragutinović? She's not alone, she's just authorized by the government to sit here, possibly answer some of our questions, but no decision alone can make. If Mr Cvetkovic were here, he could go out for this pay phone to address Serbia's public and say much more than Mrs Dragutinovic can. I wouldn't be in her place at all. The SRS will continue to warn the Serbian public of the devastating economic and social policy led by the Serbian government in such an irresponsible manner as it has done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12019	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 5 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12020	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all three representatives of opposition clubs have said what they thought and what is true for the citizens of Serbia. Indeed, this is a clean joke with us MPs, as well as Serbian citizens by the government of Serbia and by this assembly majority in this parliament. Since the very constitution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, until today, all law projects have been delayed. We received them before the debate itself, and this most important legislative project, the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, was delayed for 40 days. All of this should be known by the citizens of Serbia, but they should also know this, that the government wants to blame us for this economic situation in the country and for not making a budget. That's the problem. We need to know the truth that this budget, as it was made, is mirrored by the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is made by blackmail and mutual contracts, starting from Riza Halimi to Mladjan Dinkic. A government that rules with blackmail will hardly survive will swallow itself. The fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia may be responsible for not adopting this budget, and most likely corresponds to many tycoons that for this period of temporary financing, whether credit cards or buying large quantities of goods will ensure that they hold a monopoly somewhere in late February or March, and inflation is known to exist, not as much as you do, but is much larger, and you will likely try to defend all of this by an economic crisis. Although Serbia's citizens and we Serbs have learned almost everything we've learned so far, there's nothing to surprise us, or any economic crisis in the world. What you did to the citizens of Serbia, that's true. The country in transition and your privatisation law destroyed Serbia's economy, you destroyed the economy. Namely, you sold out everything worth it in Serbia, and sugars, and cements and oils. Now the land is being sold out, the water, and there's still that air. We already sold our energy, NIS, mines, everything that could have been sold you sold, but instead of investing in development, in Serbia's infrastructure, in the economy, you spent half of it on your travels, on your election campaigns, and you normally gave the other part to privileged ministries or companies that use those funds. For God's sake, isn't it harder to congratulate the citizens of Serbia for the New Year than these lies spread by Mladjan Dinkic and that little Bozidar Djelic! Isn't it just enough to lie about free action until the SAA, so Djelic today has the courage to say that next year we will be candidates to join Europe and that Europe will give us 400m euros to help Serbia? Well, that's the latest lies he's spilling. I believe their lies have overcome that famous Baron Minhausen. That is why I would like to inform the citizens before this new year and warn that this Serbian government, as concluded, will be difficult to overcome this crisis and the problems facing Serbian citizens. In 2009, especially from half to half, it will be much more difficult. But instead of funding from the budget, such as, as planned, we plan them where they are necessary, where there is something to be done, which is to restore agricultural production, to help those areas where production has been developed and can continue to work, and in mountain-mounted areas to help the remaining peasants deal with livestock, to deal with what they've always been and always have. Let's try to get young people interested in getting back to the village. I come from the hill-mounted region of Raška, where the largest migrations took place, the largest migration movement under that communist rule, under the wrong policy run by the Titos at the time. Those who, because of some heroism or who became Partisans in some village, or I don't know who, where they stood, were building a factory, whether it was worth it or not. There's an example for Jelizara Smederevo when one of the officials, not to name him, the deceased, stopped by, out of need, by the road, saw a nice terrain, and said, "There'll be a hardware store here, and there'll be no iron anywhere near here." Here's what Jellyzar's been through and what he's going to experience today. Unfortunately, even today, the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia... Please warn the MPs. I call upon the Madam Chairman to warn this left-hand side so we can speak. Serbia's government does not have its own development strategy, has no goal, simply deals with itself. When I read the amendments that I have submitted mentioning what a part of the funds would mean only from this amendment, which I propose to single out, for the mountain-mounted areas and the mountain of Rogozni, which is gravitating towards Zubin Potok, according to Mitrovica, Zvecan and Leposavic. There are MPs from the area who will confirm my claims, no matter what they belong to the ruling coalition. In this area, over 20 elementary schools worked on the mountain of Rogoznica and on the slopes of Mount Rogoznica until 20-30 years ago. Unfortunately, there are only three elementary schools left today, up to the fourth grade. And where the other three schools, somewhere with 24 students and about 17 traveling to elementary school, 14 km away in one direction, never a bulldozer came to those villages. Isn't that embarrassing for the state of Serbia? Isn't that embarrassing and embarrassing for all of us here in the 21st century? We're supposed to meet those little guys who travel 14 miles out of some asshole to get to the fifth, sixth, seventh or eighth grade. When the Minister of Infrastructure came, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I wanted to introduce him to this problem on the spot. We've come to see what it is, where it is, because it's hard to get there. He promised to solve that problem. We're counting on it from a word, and we'll see if it helps us. For the Ministry of Infrastructure, I will read that this ministry is also cut, not like agriculture, but it is quite reduced. We were on the Traffic and Communications Committee talking about these problems. All MPs from those parts, especially those forgotten by the government of the Republic of Serbia, such as the south of Serbia and the southwest, who are gravitating towards certain borders, said last year the budget was 23.6 billion, and this year it was 16.4. Although the minister was pleased, I think it's small. It is fortunate that there is money to strengthen all ministries, especially those of vital importance for the Republic of Serbia. We can also talk about agricultural production, but if we don't have roads, if there isn't road, water and electricity, if that's where people can't come, then how can they do that job? We've got a lot of municipalities going through these problems. It is true that many MPs here have said, it is necessary to cut the budget in a restrictive manner to the ministries, or to travel ministers. A few years ago, I calculated, except Minister Draskovic traveled within a year could have been done 180km of his master's trip. Please, not to criticise Belgrade or Nis or Novi Sad with this, but I want Serbia to have the same development. I want us to not just build big urban centers, because one day, maybe 10-20 years from now with this kind of policy, we'll all meet at that center, and I don't know what you're going to live on and what our income is going to be. Therefore, this amendment, which I have submitted, as well as all amendments submitted by the SRS, aims to repair this budget, aims to transfer funds, to focus where necessary. It's agriculture, some social benefits, infrastructure. We have to do this. No one remembered here, Madam Minister, to see what it was like with the white plague, with the birthmark in the Republic of Serbia. Nobody. We can't even get any legal projects from that government, or this government since 2000, so we can see what it is about the white plague, what it is about Natalie. I will take the opportunity to read you statistics on what is done in Serbia. In 2007, the population growth in Albanians is 24.5, and in Serbs, the trend is minus three, negative. Now, simple math, think about how to move on, where to go. The people speak, whose sheep are, that and meadows. I'm not a fan of it, but these are big warnings, Madam Minister. The death toll in 1997 was 98,068, and 70,716 were born. In 2007, 102.805 were the death toll, and 68,102 were born. Isn't this the alarm information for all of us? Isn't this the information that both ministers and chairmen and these tycoons, who are getting their money, don't realize that one day they're going to be eaten by their children? Isn't it a time to think about how further, which is a strategy for the development of the government of the Republic of Serbia, whether politicians and church representatives, and the Serbian Academy of Science and all science will sometimes sit together and make some concept together as further. This way, it seems to me that year after year we're going back, we're going somewhere where we might not go back. Not to talk and to bother you about data relating to the number of suicides committed annually in Serbia have particularly increased suicides since the 26% power of the dosmanium. So the people in the war haven't done what they've done since you rule. It's all segments and warning data for you, let's see how it goes. The amendment I submitted refers to Article 5, Section 5, Chapter 5. 9, point 9, function 330, in economic classification 423, contracted services, in columns 6 and 8, is replaced by 10 million. Only this difference to remain in this village, which I mentioned to the local community, of 48 million and something, would solve the problem of the journey of these children. Here, just that part. Not to mention the second part, same in Article 5, division 14, function 420, EC 451, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in column 6 amounting to 17 billion 285 million is replaced by 17 billion 332 million 274 thousand, and in column 8 amounting to 17 billion 885 million is replaced by 17 billion 933 million 274 million. Madam Minister, please, as an expert in this area, that we are looking at where these funds should be directed, how these people live, and how they live in Tutin and around Zaječar, how they live on KIM. Let's do everything we can to improve this, and especially what Serbian radicals are looking for, it's an investment in agricultural production. It's the only thing that can save us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12021	Anyone else want a word? On Article 5, sections 5 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. The draft law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, by proposing that in section 5, Chapter 5.5, at function 330, in the economic classification of 423, the contract-based services, in columns 6 and 8 replace the amount of 5,500,000. Also, in this amendment, I proposed that in Article 5, Section 14, heading 420, in economic classification 421, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in columns 6 and 8, 17 billion 885 million dinars be replaced by 17 billion 891 million dinars. Simply put, this amendment suggested that 6 million dinars in 2009, intended for the High Council of the Judiciary, be rerouted to the Ministry of Agriculture, as subsidies to improve agricultural production. This amendment is the continuity of all previous amendments to the SRS when it comes to the reasoned criticism of the 2009 draft budget, and I will try to explain its meaning. We Serbian radicals believe that improving the agricultural production and improving the position of a Serb peasant, who feeds all over Serbia, must be the government's top priority, led by Boris Tadic through his exhibit by Mirko Cvetkovic. The fact is that, after a European shot from Brussels, the current government in Serbia has decided to unilaterally apply the SAA with a substance calling itself the EU. It is precisely because of this fact and the budget of the Republic of Serbia and agricultural producers in Serbia that will suffer damage to wide scales. Believe it or not, the current agriculture minister Sasa Dragin, otherwise a DS official, whose statement "Tanjug" was quoted by the agency on September 28th 2008. Dragin then pointed out that, when it comes to the offerings of the most important war cultures, drought contributed to the loss of birth of 10-15% of total contributions. Minister Dragin further says the EU SAA will open the door, which will inevitably lead to stronger competition and pressure on agricultural food prices. What is most important in that statement by Minister Sasa Dragina at the time is the conclusion that the unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU is not in the interest of our country's agriculture at the moment. On the first day of application of the Agreement, we will abolish customs duties for 40% of domestic agricultural food products, which makes up about 1,000 products, at a time when we are far from ready for the upcoming competition, decorated in the products of European countries, often multiplely subsidized compared to ours, said Minister Saša Dragina just three months ago. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, explaining this amendment, I must also remind you of the statement by the President of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, Bojan Pajtic, who, on September 27th of this year, transferred to Vojvodina Radio-Television, in which Pajtic says, "The Serbian Minister of Agriculture Sasa Dragin agreed with me that our agriculture, in every respect, would come into an uncompetitive European situation by applying the trade agreement. Therefore, the state of Serbia will have to urgently establish safeguards that Serbian farmers, so to speak, would not be in an unembarkable position because of this agreement." These are Bojan Pitiæ's words, spoken only three months ago. No other statement is new to the citizens of Serbia, because it is exactly like this that contradicts the Serbian government's policy, which is working in every way possible to stifle the Serbian peasant and agricultural production in Serbia and thus enables the spread of the EU's monopoly position on the Serbian market. We see from these statements that Bojan Pajtic and Sasa Dragin act as if they were not part of a regime that is responsible for the situation of the Serb peasant and as if they were not DS officials, but some opposition parties. If I just remind myself that the Serbian government, at a session held on 16 October, so only two weeks after Dragin and Pajtic's statement, has decided that Serbia has unilaterally applied the Transition Trade Agreement since 1 January 2009, then it is clear that the government is solely working to harm Serbian citizens and agricultural producers in Serbia. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, I will also remind you that the revenues from customs in the 2008 budget participated with 70.4 billion dinars, representing 11.1% of the total structure of all budget revenues. In 2009 customs revenues in the budget will be 58.8 billion dinars and will amount to 7.3% of the total structure of all budget revenues. If we make a comparison here, it is clear that, due to the unilateral application of the transitional agreement with the EU, Serbia will lose more than 10 billion dinars in 2009, which records a 27.7% drop in customs revenues compared to its current participation in budget revenues. You are obviously not aware of all the consequences of this tax and budgetary policy, but at the same time you are creators and policy makers who are dictated by the EU, and you must obey it, because it is the current functions. We in the SRS are aware of all these consequences that will take place on 1 January 2009 when the unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement begins. As a result, with dozens of amendments, and besides this amendment, we would like to remind you that Serbian agriculture needs much more subsidies in the year ahead. In particular, this amendment suggests that the funds allocated to the Supreme Council of the judiciary of 6 million dinars are being rerouted to the Ministry of Agriculture, as such redistribution of funds will be of multiple benefit to all agricultural producers in Serbia, who are facing an even more difficult period of struggle for survival than it is today. Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling majority, you better protect the interests of Serbian agriculture, instead of protecting other people's interests in a country where you have been ruling for eight years. You will do so best by accepting this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12023	The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12024	I am reporting on the amendment submitted by SRS MP Zoran Popovic. In Article 5, Section 5, Chapter 5. 5, function 330, economic classification 423 - contracted services in columns 6 and 8, amounting to 11 million and 500 000 are replaced by 5 million and 500 thousand. In Article 5, Section 14, function 420, economic classification 451 - subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in column 6, the amount of 17 billion 285 million is replaced by 17 billion 291 million, and in column 8, the amount of 17 billion 885 million is replaced by 17 billion 891 million. The budget represents the most important law to be passed every year in the current year. For the next year, the budget law, or fiscal policy of the state, is even more important because in 2009, due to the global economic crisis, it will be difficult for most Serbian citizens. Unfortunately, the draft budget law arrived in the Assembly with a 40-day delay, and the legal deadline for adoption expires today at midnight, meaning 29 December 2008. The ruling coalition, consisting of conglomerates of larger and smaller parties, has only one common goal, and this is a personal interest. The government unfairly accuses the opposition of obstructing the Parliament's work, to deceive Serbian citizens once more that the opposition is guilty of not adopting the budget. Serbia's government, however, seems to be responding to a transition to temporary financing. Using regime media, the ruling coalition has been spreading various misinformation to justify its impotence with citizens, who have been living harder and harder since 2000. The opposition was constructive, and the Serbian government is responsible for not adopting the budget. Therefore, the SRS indicates that this budget is without clear priorities, that it is not restrictive, that it is not developmental, that it is inflatable and that it is wasteful. The SRS believes that funding from the budget should be distributed evenly, and in particular if these funds leave for agriculture, which has been neglected by this budget. The SRS tried to improve the budget with 115 amendments, increase savings, and reduce spending. You didn't have or didn't want to have an understanding and will for amendments to the SRS. For this reason, we believe that this budget is initially doomed because it is neither realistic nor rational. Nearly 66 million dinars have been allocated from the budget for the High Council of Justice, to the employees of the High Council of the judiciary for salaries of 33.5 million dinars, and to the economic classification of 423 - 11.5 million dinars. The High Council of the judiciary has 11 members and the start of work is scheduled for 1 February 2009, so these funds are projected for ten months for salaries and 11 months for other current expenditures. The government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected this amendment with an explanation: the amendment is not accepted for the reason that reducing planned funds to the EC 423 - contracted services would reduce the possibility of starting the work of members of the High Council of the judiciary, who are subsequently provided at the level of a parliamentary allowance in the National Assembly from this appraisal. The government seems to have no hearing about agriculture and farmers, who work hard and live, so 19 billion and 826 million dinars were allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. The 2009 agricultural budget is 24% lower than in 2008. If at least 8% of inflation is included, we come to an account that by 1/3 of the agricultural budget is lower in 2009. This government calls for European integration, i.e. We are invited to join the EU from year to year. If this is the view of the government, the question is: how does the government think Serbia is doing in the market, so-called. United Europe, if the most prospective branch of the economy, agriculture, is neglected by the budget? In Serbia today, there are 700,000 unemployed, in the next 6-12 months, according to economists, there will be at least 10% of the employees in Serbia, who today have about 2 million and 800,000. So the number of unemployed will be about 1 million. This would bring the number of unemployed in Serbia closer to the number of one million. Today 65% of the population in Serbia do not have enough money for food, two million live on the border of existence, and without the most basic provisions for life, 310,000 children live. The finance minister in the opening part stressed that social income will increase in 2009 compared to the one in 2008. This claim is most likely based on agriculture, as an economic branch that the global economic crisis seems to bypass. Agriculture subsidies in 2009 are down by six billion. (President: National MPs, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. ) So, the government of Serbia will invest less in agriculture in 2009, and expects a positive growth rate from agriculture. It must not be spared on subsidies for agriculture, and therefore we have proposed this amendment, which you most likely held responsible and did not take seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12025	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 5 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12026	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not accidentally choose to defend the amendment of current absent colleague Filip Stojanovic because of the fact that in direct connection with the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the scandal that I received as the applicant of a performance on behalf of the SRS from the Republic Public Prosecutor. Namely, I have to remind you, at this final hour and the final of the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, that all of this has happened and why today, December 29th, at 1835, we have a situation to discuss more than 100 submitted amendments to the SRS. Why the budget came with a delay and why it is obvious that Prime Minister Cvetkovic's intention and cabinet, and Boris Tadic, as well as you from the ruling coalition, are to accuse the opposition political parties of your incompetence. It simply won't work, because for some time after this extraordinary session tomorrow will be a break in the work of the National Assembly, be sure that every moment and every public appearance we will use to stamp your policy, and not only that, but the work of all the state authorities that should be in the function of protecting the Constitution and the laws of this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Filip Stojanovic wanted to reduce travel costs to the Republic Public Prosecutor, and from the estimated 3.5 million dinars, he reduced it to a reasonable number of millions of dinars. But if we could have assumed that such a scandalous decision or response from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office would have arrived on the occasion of the withdrawal of the 10 parliamentary mandates of the SRS in the Kragujeva City Assembly, we would have reduced this amount, Mrs Dragutinovic, from the projected 3.5 million dinars to zero dinars. It's not funny, it's really sad. Now I have to do a little dyspression. A little over a month ago, I asked from the assembly pay phone if the state of Serbia had a Republic Public Prosecutor. The public wondered if this man was alive and, acting under Articles 225 and 226 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Comic chaired and said - I ask that part of the stenogram be referred to the competent ministry. I received the answer that he is alive and well, that he has been in office for two years now, that he is called Slobodan Radovanovic and, as a matter of fact, from Kragujevac, as well as this criminal, President of the District Court Miroljub Tomic, who led the action of the only court in Serbia, noting, the kidnapping of the mandate of the SRS and the non-compliance of contracts certified in the Kragujeva court, the resignations and powers of the applicant of those resignations. I received an answer, but not as a applicant for the protection of legality, i.e. a request for criminal charges against the judges of the Kragujeva District Court, namely Obren Jezdić, Simonida Miloradovic, Aleksandra Blanusha, because of the fact that, as chairman of the council, they are in violation of the Law on Local Elections, Article 49. The law, not acting as all other judges and all other judicial councils in Serbia, rudely violated the election will of Kragujevac citizens and kidnapped 10 parliamentary mandates of the SRS. He did not answer me, Mrs Dragutinovic, this one whose costs we want to cut from 3.5 million to a million dinar, but a certain one, is not seen because of the seal over the whole name, Raško or Draško Obradovic, deputy member of the republican public prosecutor. He says, "About your letter 226-08, of 31. Ten. In 2008, and on account of your performance, which we received four. 11. In 2008, we would like to inform you that we have not accepted an initiative to raise claims for the protection of legality against the ruling of the District Court in Kragujevac of 14. Ten. In 2008, in the joint cases of the court (listed and which cases) because we have assessed that the court decision did not violate the law, second regulation or general act." Please, there are excellent lawyers here in the SRS. Ms. Vjerica Radeta was a representative of the task force for the adoption of laws on local self-government and local elections in the previous meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic was one of the best ministers for local self-government, and this testifies to the fact that among the first, long ago in 98 and 99, she noticed the problem, as some here call it, the Presevo Valley, when we had already seen an aggressive attack on NATO forces and an announcement of our country's bombing. If so, please tell me, Mrs Dragutinovic, you are a doctor of economic science, is it normal for the Republic Public Prosecutor, who wants to travel by 3.5 million dinars, does not want to act according to the law and does not want to see what is clearly clear in all other district courts in Serbia, to Article 49. The law on local elections determines when, under what conditions and who can activate the resignations of those selected on the list of any political party or other organisation that participated in the elections? If that's not enough signal for you, and it's not enough to alert this National Assembly and our democratic system, quasi-democraticly, it won't be able to function after the next five hours, not the next day, not since January 1st, not as long as you're in power, not as long as you have prosecutors and judges like this, then there's no help here. Do not complain, wheeze and say that the opposition is guilty first because of the fact that the country's state authorities are only working on a warrant outside. When Solana tells you and when Olli Rehn tells you your judicial authorities and how they work, then from a deep sleep the one Vekaric and Vukcevic wake up, so you hunt Radovan Karadzic, so to this day there is no alias of Dr Dabic, there is no record of what security forces have caught him. Should I, Mrs Dragutinovic, tell you about why you didn't ask why Parliament didn't work for two months, what all the remarks your colleagues from other parliamentary groups have given you that support the draft budget. Some of them said, I'm not going to say which one is the parliamentary group, but I know for a fact that it is, at first consultations, that the budget is scandalous. It is scandalous and this budget should not be adopted, and Serbian citizens should not suffer your wrong policies, especially farmers. Sevap is, as our people would say, especially peasants, to transfer this 2.5 million dinars nicely, as counterpart Filip Stojanovic predicted this amendment, to subsidies for agriculture. It's nice to know that the peasants are gone for what's most needed. Because as you stated in this strategy, I again refer to this document, I do not know whether other fellow Members are reading, but I am at the end and I am always going back to something that is once again the national strategy of Serbia's European integration. It's this 1,100-page document, you've made quite clear what's true, which is that in our country's total social product, where around 11% of our country's food production is included, agriculture with 23% participates, but I think it's more, because the registration of all agricultural holdings in our country has not been completed. We are free to say that over a quarter of the working-age population is engaged in agriculture and that the problem in the fact that we do not have any strategy for our country's agricultural development, especially in rural areas, which has been very precisely spoken by a colleague of Marina Toman, regardless of what some of these laws are, and this is a set of eight laws, which has arrived in the assembly procedure, prepared for adoption. If that is the case, Mrs Dragutinovic, today, December 29, when it is obvious that you will not be able to adopt the budget, every president of the municipality, regardless of which party, trembles at the fact that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow is the last day when transfer funds are due. If it is true, and it is, what my colleague Ilic said, that there is no single dinar in the Treasury and that it is a question of whether these funds will come tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, that payment orders have been prepared, that there are survival and kindergartens, and many businesses and public institutions in the area of local self-government, how can you say, or any of you, and you will do so, as Gordana Pop-Lazic just said, to accuse the opposition of being guilty of your incompetence and all that is happening in the country? You want to kidnap the electoral will of citizens, parliamentary, parliamentary mandates, not to respect what parliamentary democracy is, what we have been fighting for 18 years, since the first parliamentary elections in Serbia were held. You will be able to continue by acting, not to listen to the only voice of reason, not you personally but this one across the street, Boris Tadic, and the only voice of reason today in Serbia, the only political party that sees problems and can solve them, is the SRS. You let go of those stories - we had it, so we've been accepted this, so we'll -- nothing's been accepted by the citizens of Serbia. I don't need to give you information because it's about personal messages, some of those phone numbers I don't know, and I don't know who these people are, but people say, well done, good for you. Especially farmers, because the theme of agriculture has been shaken from the assembly pay phone this morning since 10:00 p.m. just thanks to the fact that the MPs of the SRS are talking about it. We found an optimal, reasonable measure. Perhaps now I've made you these arguments that the Republic Public Prosecutor is not working and I've convinced you that this one, you'll say, is small, two million, accept the amendment, but it's obviously too late for that. What about this second one in the structure of the budget, and travel expenses, and contract services and all that we've been counting on today, which you know for sure are the flexibility of individual republican ministers, and individual agencies and what production is? After all, you were at the consultations that we had said the other day - that you might agree with the fact that they spend a lot of money, and the agencies, which we have been claiming from the beginning are just machines for multiplying bureaucracy, but that it is simply not possible to do it now because they are founded under certain laws and because the Budgetary System Act does not give the possibility to switch from one position to another. It's no excuse for me, Mrs Dragutinovic. One thing or another, when counterpart Cedomir Jovanovic told you - on the other hand, you violate Article 61. The privatisation law, is it so, fellow Jovanovic, through a budget projection like this, you said -- yes, that's the same thing, so you did a comparative, like when a parliamentary group asks some agencies, here now not from the agencies, from the Republic Public Prosecutor, to transfer funds for subsidies to agriculture. It's not our problem that you invented 200 agencies and Siepa that doesn't do anything. There sit a comfortable wife or some other acquaintance of certain officials from the top of the government. That's the case in Kragujevac, that's the case in all Serbian cities. They don't do export work, let alone export agricultural products. Which agricultural products to export when the state does not care about the organized purchase of our strategic products by peasants. The situation will be much worse and much more difficult in 2009. I have no intention of scaring additional citizens of Serbia, because every adult citizen is aware of the situation in which we find ourselves. But don't seek justification in the global economic crisis. The whole strategy of this document, which has over a thousand sides, is based exclusively on agriculture, which is therefore a special segment, agricultural and rural development, in co-operation with EU countries. We don't run politics like that. We think that from our peasants, from their hard and hard work, healthy agricultural products from Serbia, and above all food, and above all investment in the field of healthy food production, can buy only one Moscow sub-authority or some smaller town in Russia and be happy and satisfied and peasants in Serbia, and to live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12027	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 6 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation in which we are today when we need to adopt the budget at the last minute, and for that there is no time, imposes a fundamental question on us - who is to blame for it? Whether they are MPs of the opposition or are representatives of the DS, G17 and SPS, who, when they somehow crushed the government, were not the goal of preserving Kosovo and Metohija, were not the aim of economic development and a better standard of Serbian citizens, their goal was not to establish a rule of law, which will guarantee the security and equality of our citizens, but was their only goal of sharing cakes and spending the budget of the Republic of Serbia, spending the money of Serbian citizens. The budget of one country is the most true indication whether this country is well-organised or not. When the Democrats came to power in 2000, they promised citizens all the benefits of life, new jobs and a rational, efficient state. Where are we today and how do we live? The 2009 budget bill does not stabilise the country's economic situation, there are no priority areas of funding, as the budget has been politically created, exclusively as a compromise of meeting parties in power. In addition, the budget is not even social because it does not have a social component, with which the most vulnerable are poor, sick and unemployed. There is not enough money in the budget for maternity and parental benefits, child benefits, for science, and part of it could be compensated and reduced by expenditure on services under contract, as foreseen by this amendment, but also by other amendments to the SRS MPs, but it is obvious that our owners do not want to do so. Furthermore, this budget is neither modest nor restrictive, because not only has savings and rationalisation not only been made at less important levels and classifications, but there has been an increase. The 50 billion dinar deficit is projected, i.e. 600m euros and that is what government representatives here said, projected according to an agreement with the IMF. That's not much of a reference to you. What will happen to the payment of debts for which funds should be provided, as new duties are also known to be planned. It doesn't seem to concern anyone in power or interest. The government of the Republic of Serbia violated the Law on the Budget System, as the 2009 Budget Law entered the procedure with 40 days of delay, instead of 1 November, in the Assembly on December 7th, and in front of MPs on December 10th. What does that tell us? What message does the government send to Serbian citizens in this way? This speaks of the government's obvious intention or part of the government not to adopt the budget in time, and the number of amendments of over 200 faithfully testify to the poor quality of the proposed budget. The amendment I have submitted is very meaningful and predicts that in the economic classification 423, contracted services, in column 6 amounting to 14,000,000 are replaced by 5,001,000 dinars in column 8.001,000. These funds are added to the economic classification 451, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in column 6 amounting to 17.285,000 is increased to 17.294,000, and in column 8 the amount of 17.885,000 is replaced by 17.894,000. What would actually be achieved by accepting this amendment? The government would reduce the amount for contract services and lower the same amount in real terms due to the financial crisis and savings in state authorities, and the funds from this savings would be transferred to subsidies for the development and improvement of agricultural production as our basic development prospects. Agriculture needs protectionist measures and state intervention, but not in this way, not against farmers, as you do with this draft budget. In 2008, 27 billion and 700 million dinars were foreseen for the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, and in 2009, you predict 20 billion and 500 million dinars, more than 7 billion dinars, with a fall index of up to 135, with subsidies for agriculture reduced by five billion, and I will remind you that agriculture is an economic branch that has always resisted all financial crises, thanks to the maximum engagement of our farmers and of course the demand for the food market. This does not mean that the government should now treat our agricultural producers as second and third-class citizens. They can't be good to this government just before the election. Our farmers in Serbia, under very unfavourable conditions, produce wheat, corn and other cultures, at unfavourable prices of seeds, fertilizers, which have cost 100% and a ransom price of products that enable the profit of tycoons making the ransom, while our farmer, when budgeting the expenditure and income side, almost comes to zero, not counting his hard work. On the other hand, Serbia flourishes with the creation of various unnecessary organisations, agencies, commissions, the increase of unnecessary bureaucratic apparatus in the form of various minest advisers, accompanied by expensive cars, further unnecessary and unreasonable spending of budget money through various contract services and specialised services, while the farmer is considering whether or not to sow anything next year. What my esteemed colleague, the greatest farmer for the rights of agricultural producers, Mr Srboljub Zivanovic, says - when spring and warm days come, when the smell of the country is felt, all of these farmers forget and start to work because they cannot leave unprocessed surfaces, but they produce food for the state, waiting for when this work will finally be paid off. Our people are working and valuable, and all they ask is that they work with dignity and live and support their families from their work. Our farmers need to regress fertilisers, oil and seeds, because 90% of the unprocessed area is in Toplico, Jablanička, Nisavski and Pcinjska district, because our people have no money to invest in production. All the loans distributed by the Ministry of Agriculture are not distributed to the right agricultural producers, but are shared to the people who spent that money for other purposes, as well as subsidies to tobacco producers, which were selectively paid or according to the political line. Besides, the Ministry of Agriculture promised our peasant a 100-euro stimulation per bull, but of course there was nothing. Every third house in southern Serbia wants to guard ten cows, but since they have no use for it, only damage, they give up on it. Do you know that more than 70% of farmers don't have health books, because they're looking for money in the office, and in the meantime, when they haven't used health care, not from the moment they need it. If we create a parallel with environments and subsidies in Slovenia, Croatia and Hungary, which are three times bigger than ours, we will easily come to the conclusion that the proposed budget discriminates farmers. It is high time that the democratic government in Serbia realized that our export potential lies in agriculture, our future towards a strong economy, with agriculture as a bearer of economic development and success, because the whole world is looking for healthy food and we can give it to them, but that is why we have to subsidize and encourage agriculture much more, not to restrict it, and to demonstrate wastefulness in the cabinets of prime ministers, vice presidents and ministers in the government. And the laymen know that in the electronic and machine industry we can't compete with one Japan or Germany, but in agriculture we can be far stronger than anyone. In addition, unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement will result in reduced import protection for almost half of agricultural products, which will be left to quasi-liberal fierce competition of EU products. The Government’s explanation for not accepting this amendment states that the amendment would not be accepted for the reason that reducing the planned resources of the Citizens’ Protector, on the economic classification of 423, services under contract, would prevent normal functioning, as it would not be possible to finance translation, professional training and training services, monitoring changes in the work of the state administration, publication of all statements, recommendations and opinions provided for by the Law on the Protector of Citizens, and in order to familiarise the public with their content. I think the government's explanation here is absolutely pointless and unacceptable, because all of these activities can be carried out by already employed officials, and that the funds from this savings are transferred to over-necessary subsidies for the development and improvement of agricultural production. Finally, I call on you to accept this amendment, which, to an absolutely acceptable extent, corrects a relatively poor draft budget law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12029	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 7 and 14, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12030	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, for the sake of a better and fairer allocation of funds in the budget, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The 2009 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which the government submitted to the assembly with a delay of 47 days and left only seven days for debate with MPs. We have heard here from Mr. Shormaz that the Polish Parliament has been discussing its budget for six months, and ours only seven days. Citizens can conclude what inconclusiveness is about when it comes to our government. The amendment refers to division 7 and division 14. It's a bill of law. Section 7, function 110, in the economic classification 423 - contract service, in which I request that in column 6, the amount of 12,300,000 be replaced by 5,00,000 and in column 8, the amount of 12,303,000 be replaced by 5,003,000. Furthermore, in Article 5, section 14, function 420, economic classification 451 - subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, in column 6 amounting to 17.285,000, replaced by 17.292.300,000 dinars, and in column 8, 17.885.000 replaced by 17.892.300,000 dinars. Section 7 of the draft budget refers to the State Audit Institution. The point of the amendment is to focus these 7.3 million dinars on the development and promotion of agriculture. We heard in the debate that for this classification -- contracted services -- a total of 14 billion dinars were allocated to 60 seats. If, as part of this classification -- contracted services -- only what we asked for these amendments, there would be a figure of at least 600 million dinars, which would focus on improving agricultural production. To you who follow the vision and who declare the best experts and economists in the world and award awards, there is no need to explain why this solution is better, but I will do it for the citizens of Serbia. I need to explain to farmers and other workers in agriculture, and to those who work in the farm processing work, why the government treats them like this and what they're like. services under contract, which in each section of the budget have considerable resources. In response to my amendment, the Government said that it was not accepted for reasons that the reduction of the planned funds by the State Auditing Institution in the economic classification of 423 - services under the contract - would be disabled, since the means for the translation of international accounting standards, with the application of public sector, professional literature, services for temporary and occasional jobs, software and computer procurement services, computer equipment and specific programmes for accounting operations, education and training of employees and the acquisition of audit knowledge, as well as the costs for the engagement of external consultants for the development strategy of institutions in the next medium term, which is completely unclear to me, since this institution has not done any final account since 2001, as we have heard here in the debate. The state audit institution should control the spending of budget funds, despite the fact that it was not formed in time and virtually did not even start work, very large funds were planned -- services under contract -- the amount of 12 million 300 000 really are large funds, so the remaining five million we propose to this amendment are quite sufficient, and perhaps they are too high. Why would a job be entrusted to someone else, except in exceptional situations? The jobs of these contracts should be carried out by an army of 27 000 employees in ministries, agencies, state authorities and other institutions and organisations paid from budgets. This kind of savings should be channelled into vital activity, in order to overcome the announced crisis, and agriculture is one of these. First of all, to remind me of the exposés of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who said the budget would be restrictive compared to the state, prompted by the economy. This finding contrasts completely with Mrs Dragutinovic's statement, which said the subsidies were significantly reduced. That's what you said in your explanation. I wonder, which one of you is confusing the citizens? Looks like both. We also heard from you that there was a reduction in the subsidy to agriculture because some legal entities used subsidies in previous years, giving money to their workers who had less and so misused these funds, but I wonder what kind of justification this is and what it is for. Why does the government punish farmers for some executives who have abused their position? I guess they're the culprits, not the farmers. Serbian citizens know very well that there are parallel institutions in our system of government, such as numerous agencies for all and all things, which represent a black hole in the budget. If it's a black hole, then it's an agency that's over 200, as we've heard. They suck up the huge resources of taxpayers, and essentially represent places for the arrest of activists of parties in power, their relatives, friends, etc. The fact that all individuals are experts in these agencies means nothing to citizens, especially that this budget, in your words, Mrs Dragutinovic, should be a mechanism for protecting the social status of citizens. Since this status is determined, above all, by the basic conditions of life, where food is always first and foremost, how could you deny agriculture subsidies and aid. In agriculture, all available resources are to be invested for the globular state administration and mentioned unnecessary parasitic organisations and agencies. Given the current and upcoming crisis, any responsible authority should adequately respond and favour the basic vital branches of the economy, and above all think about food production. Instead, our government plans to increase food imports from the EU through unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement, who knows what quality of food, which is intended for so-called. the eastern market, the beautiful look, and the bad content their consumers call a junk food. How does the government think they provide enough quality food for the population? How will our farmer, in addition to this relationship to agriculture, produce a surplus for the market? Without favourable loans for the renewal of machinery, fruit and seed material, without subsidies for certain production, farmers will only produce for their own purposes. If the agrarian per capita stands out 48 euros in our country, and in other countries between 120 and 150 euros, with such free food imports, we will have a hard time putting up with this crisis. Let us remember that our agrarian endured the greatest burden in times of crisis, that agriculture saved us during the wars and the sanctions. It is unacceptable that, despite this experience, the government allows for this kind of unseriousness and irresponsibility. We understand that there is nothing missing from government gentlemen, but we should think of people living in poverty and below the poverty line, those who have no income, who will not be able to save their jobs despite being invited by President Boris Tadic. For them, agriculture could be a chance and an opportunity to hire and provide its existence. I call on the Proposer to accept this amendment and to help save the most important economic activity this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12031	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a folk MP coming from a region where most of the population is engaged in primary agricultural production, I believe that my colleague's amendment, Dr Dusanka Plecevic, should be accepted, as well as amendments from other SRS MPs of the same content. The essence of these amendments is saving in state authorities and on the other hand providing more money for subsidies to agriculture. As for the savings recommendation, due to the economic and financial crisis, the SRS has recommended a reduction of the planned funds in the economic classification of 423 - contract services - since we have recognised many opportunities for abuse among almost all budget users. It's actually a way to pay off money on the basis of many contracts, and most often it's contracts on services performed. The services performed are mainly referred to professional services, administrative, accounting, translation services and the like. The fact is, there are far more employees in all state bodies than is necessary. In order to pay more money for the same employee, they will be engaged in some special projects and thus out of regular earnings for more money. It's a classic abuse. Recently, we've had these events at the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society. In the ministry, they were angry that this was potential and they defended themselves by the fact that these things were done in all the ministries. Because of this fact, Serbian radicals are demanding that in the 2009 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the funds are defined in economic classification 423 - contracted services - downgraded. They'll save the most if they stop abuse. On the other hand, the savings should be rerouted to subsidies in agriculture. The biggest absurd that the government could make, when proposing a budget law, is a reduction in the funding for subsidies, rather than the amount of these funds being higher in 2009 compared to the 2008 amount, it was reduced. The government seems unaware of the fact that the life of farmers in Serbia is too heavy, and that in the coming 2009 because of the global economic and financial crisis, it will be much more difficult. So far, agricultural producers have been unable to provide resources for the decent lives of their families. I come from a region where most of the population deals with primary agricultural production. My countrymen welcome a new year with great excitement instead of joy, as the period of investment in production begins in early February. The gardens most often deal with the production of peppers in the Jablanic region, but also tomatoes, cabbage, potatoes and other cultures, will have to invest in the purchase of seeds that are very expensive. In addition, large expenditure represents investments in plastics, as vegetables are aware that, due to the changed climate, outdoor production carries a much higher risk, but production in plastics. Also, large expenditure is a drop - by - drop irrigation system, without which vegetables can't even be imagined, as temperatures during the summer are often above 40 degrees. If we add to this the cost of artificial fertilisers and pesticides, then it's clear that the production of vegetables is too expensive. When it comes to selling its products, the manufacturer neither has a secure market nor a safe price. Manufacturers are left to themselves and often realize that they are at a loss. I don't want to talk about the heavy working conditions in the field, and I don't want to talk about plastics. It's familiar to everyone. As far as fruit trees are concerned, the Vučjan River is known for its quality production of cherries and pears. By producing this fruit, many families make their only income. It's impossible to describe the humiliations these people experience when they have to collect money from buyers for sold fruit. I only have to mention one more Serbian disgrace. Warlords spent the largest amount of corn this year on heating. The price of corn is so low, it represents a real humiliation for warlords. As things stand, agricultural producers will also be humiliated in 2009, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia humiliated them to the full by the 2009 Budget Bill. Government members in their cabinets, who remind us of the glass bells, don't know how the farmers are in the field, the orchard, the greenhouse. By accepting the amendments to the SRS, the humiliation of farmers would be at least a little less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12033	On Article 5, sections 8 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12034	Dear People's MPs, dear minister, for this position in which the Assembly was held tonight is not the fault of the opposition. Let's see how many on the left and how many on the right. It seems that the ruling majority, or government, knew that it was unrealistic for this budget to be adopted, so there are not enough MPs who would vote the budget if it were possible at this point. On behalf of the SRS, I submitted an amendment to Article 5, division 8, function 110, economic classification 422 - travel costs, in columns 6 and 8 the amount of "150 million" is changed by "50 million". So it's shrinking by 100 million. The funds are transferred to division 14, function 420, economic classification 451 - subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, and in column 6 the amount of "17 billion 285 million" is replaced by "17 billion 385 million". The SRS considers it necessary to reduce the amounts for travel costs and the same amount of awareness to the real frameworks due to the global economic and financial crisis and savings in state bodies. We believe that these savings should be transferred to subsidies for the development and improvement of agriculture. The foreign ministry is performing tasks of state administration relating to foreign policy, maintaining the relations of the Republic of Serbia with other countries and international institutions. The ministry also includes diplomatic and consular representations, which total around 1.206 employees. Travel costs are defined for individual travel, delegation travel, moving costs, participation in conferences, seminars and others. That is why the budget needs to be set aside, for the Foreign Ministry 150m, and for consular representations of 60m, which is 210m or approximately threem euros. That's a lot of money. The government, apparently, is unaware that the global economic crisis has hit our country, with a tendency to worsen. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not feel it, according to the budget's planned funds, because this ministry, unlike other ministries, receives more funds from the budget for 2009 than in 2008, index 103. The question arises, can such budgetary resources be justified by the citizens of Serbia? Viewing Serbia's position towards the international community and thus the foreign ministry, it is unrealistic. We are witnessing the inadmissible behaviour of individual ambassadors and embassy officers, who are rudely interfering with our country's internal policy, and through that and externally. We have individual ambassadors forming a government and trying to discipline the parties. Therefore, ministry officials do not have to travel around the world because all information and instructions can be obtained in Serbia, i.e. in the flat embassies, and that reduces the cost. Saved funds from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I suggest they focus on agriculture. Agriculture in Serbia's gross national income accounts for about 21%, employs 10%, and participates in exports with 26%. Taking into account the catastrophic situation in agriculture, the country's economic crisis, agriculture is the most damaged by the projection of this budget. The budget planned for 2009 is 74% compared to 2008, which is not the case with other ministries and amounts to around 20.5 billion. The Veterinary Administration is at 77% compared to 2008 and amounts to around 833 million. The Water Directorate is at 43% compared to 2008 and is 320 million. By unilaterally applying the agreement with the EU, our peasant and agriculture are under direct attack by the arrival of cheap agricultural and food products. Current government, the regime remembers peasants only in electoral propaganda, when it is necessary to win power over its party, and it mainly works by deception, free action, the payment of back pensions to agricultural pensioners ahead of the elections, etc. I'm asking what's up with, and one example, what about the village project for the 21st century? This activity was done during this year's election cycle. The grant contest went through the Ministry of Agriculture, and the funds were planned for 10 municipalities, i.e. villages, funds were sought and needed to improve infrastructure, plumbing, ambulances, etc. In order to participate in the competition, it was necessary to prepare extensive documentation with projects, requiring costs. It was also necessary to ensure the participation of the local community from 30% to the funds received. My municipality of Arilla, with village Tresnjevica, participated in the competition mentioned and entered the election, and was supposed to receive 30 millins, and the participation of the local community was 10 million and these funds were secured. A few days ago, there was a written announcement that the project had failed and that it had nothing to do with it. It's a confirmation of how we treat the village. The agricultural development strategy considers it realistic that agriculture can produce more than ever and contribute to the growth of the economy, that it can produce high-quality food, that agriculture can bear the changes needed for Serbia to join the EU. That's not possible with this kind of government policy and this budget. What about the machinery? Technological development of machinery, its progress enables the development of agriculture. However, economic reforms, with catastrophic privatisation, have brought major problems to the industrial sector. Our machinery manufacturers are literally shut down. What about the Dragon? What about the IMT, which was produced by 45,000 units in 1989, and now barely 500? The attempt to sell it was not to restore production, but to use attractive space for other content. What about the IMR? What about the other small producers and their cooperatives? The wind and livestock that we don't even talk about, there were words here, with these means, that service can't work. An example in Ariel, 15 years ago, there were 7,000 cows in the small municipality, and now, according to passport records, 1,300. Also, there were 2,500 heroes in that, and now only 30. The Ministry of Agriculture also belongs to the Water Directorate, which performs the tasks of the state administration relating to water management policy, water use, water protection, water supply and others. Funding of works on construction of water supply facilities of national importance, waste water treatment, water supply projects and others is planned. These are 320 million assets that are 40% compared to the previous year. I'm asking a question - what about the water system "Rzav" or the accumulation of "Grachkov"? In the coming period, for years we will be faced with a water supply problem due to global climate problems, or droughts. The Rzav system provides five municipalities, Arile, Požega, Luciani, Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, with some 300,000 inhabitants. The system has been functioning since 1992, with a possible capacity of 1,100 liters per second, but still on temporary waterway that is directly on the water stream without accumulation. It's a way of jeopardizing the biological system downriver from the procedure. Important permits define a biological minimum of 700 liters per second, which is not respected in times of crisis. We are witnessing the situation of August last year and the big media campaign over the water supply problem, which was most felt by the citizens of Aryl, that they had no water beside their rivers. The ministry resorted to an incredible solution to reduce the biological minimum. The biological minimum is not the salary so it can be reduced, it's the biological minimum. How is that possible? I ask the question - what new solution will the government invent for the citizens of Arilla next summer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12035	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Here you go. You have five minutes left, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the agenda of the 5th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly, called for on Saturday 20 December 2008, the agenda made up of, or adopted by the assembly majority, a draft budget law was postponed for Monday 22 December. Gentlemen of the Assembly's majority, on December 22nd, you put on the agenda a budget that, according to the budget calendar, was to be adopted on December 15th. So, with seven days late, you put the draft budget bill on the agenda. On that day, the minister explained the budget in her presentation, and then she said the budget was focused on solving the problems encountered in the crisis situation. Did you know that there was going to be a crisis situation, so you didn't make a budget on November 1st when it wasn't the current crisis situation, or were you already in a fight as you are now in the ruling coalition, you in the government? Your problem is that you cannot adopt the budget, neither the amendments nor the opposition, the problem is that you do not have a majority, because if you had a majority, here you would now be prime minister, all ministers, accept amendments, convince MPs publicly in front of Serbian citizens that this and that amendment for that reason cannot be accepted, and then perhaps you would convince citizens that you are right. But no, you've been sent here to torture yourself by listening to what we're saying. You may agree with most of our amendments, you do not have the authority to accept them, formally you have, but you know essentially that you do not, and then you need to create the impression that someone from the opposition is responsible for why Serbian citizens will be on temporary funding from January 1st. Last night, in the national "Dnevnik" of a television show, the prime minister says -- it's not the end of the world, we've already prepared a decision on temporary funding, but he's out there somewhere in the small brain hoping that maybe the budget will be adopted. So, you know and you knew, and you had to know December 22nd, that you couldn't have adopted the budget on December 29th in seven days. That wasn't possible at all. You further said that the citizens, upset about the crisis in the world, withdrew money from the banks and that the value of the dinars fell. I'm just quoting, I wrote everything down exactly like you said. You say the budget is structurally balanced, but it's not very restrictive. You can have a stenogram if you don't believe me. So, you told us that this wasn't a restrictive budget at a time when you invite citizens to tighten the belt, to die of belt tightening. Then you said something very interesting, Madam Minister, you said like this: "As bad as the budget is late, it's as good." So you then warned the MPs that you were prepared not to bring the budget and that it was on the one hand good. When it comes to the amendment, don't laugh, Madam Minister, because of your irresponsibility, I don't mean your own, because of the irresponsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia have almost come into a situation that they can't travel, so you were ready to create an unprecedented chaos in the legal system of the state, one of the ministers said, you'll bring a regulation with legal force, the government's regulation will extend the law. Now you've brought to justice the question of whether or not they'll be able to conduct investigations, that's again the topic we're going to talk about tomorrow, because again you, by your will, have been late. (President: Time. ) You have passed seven completely unnecessary laws, to which the whole of Serbia has been embittered, and to this we have spent, I end, 12 days, but we haven't talked about the passport extension law, or the extension of the CAP, or the budget when it was time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12037	On Article 5, sections 8 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Who wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12038	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this chaos with delay in all laws and budgets is the result of internal conflicts in the government over the division of prey and all over the coat of arms of the people. Now, of course, according to a well-tested old recipe, in order to justify themselves, their greed, predatoryness and inability to point their finger at the opposition as the main culprits. The amendment tabled by counterpart Ognjen Mihajlovic suggests increasing funds to the agriculture ministry. The government has also rejected the SRS amendment, which proposes targeting funds in areas of strategic importance for the state and citizens. This budget literally struck agriculture. The disastrous economic and social policy of the current regime has led the country to economic collapse, and citizens to total dissuasion and poverty. This budget is just another step in that direction. You announced that this government would be socially responsible. You announced this budget as a savings budget that will allow the social security of citizens and protection for the poorest. You've deceived the citizens. This budget does not allow the social security of citizens and protection of poor layers. It protects the interests of the import lobby, or tycoon. The ruling coalition is now barging on the global economic crisis, as an alibi for all the disastrous moves it has made. The projected budget deficit is about 50 billion dinars. The government has decided to launch a unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU as of January 1st, which envisions a gradual suspension of customs duties. The state thus renounces about 300m euros in profits based solely on customs, according to Minister Djelic. On the other hand, the unilateral application of this agreement is fatal to the Serbian economy in general. Domestic production, especially agriculture, will be destroyed because domestic producers are not ready to compete with competitive EU goods. The livestock producers also warn that they will be in an uninvisible position due to unfair competition. The livestock food, like many other agricultural products, will be exempt from paying customs duties, and a number of raw materials, which participate in domestic livestock production, will remain under the customs regime. Import components, without which our producers cannot produce, will be customs-free over the next two to six years, while EU finished products will be freed from customs at the beginning. Because of this unequal situation of producers in Serbia and the EU, domestic products will be between 8% and 10% more expensive than the price in the EU. Another blow has been given to agriculture, except for the one-sided application of the Transitional Trade Agreement, which is that the funding for agriculture has been reduced by 26% since 2008. Experts estimate that this is how agriculture has been hit the hardest in the last 50 years. And these reduced subsidies to agriculture, according to the government's disastrous decision, will only receive households that pay pension and social insurance based on income from agriculture. Not to mention the government hasn't paid off subsidies for the current year. Agricultural producers are desperate, they don't want to deal with agricultural production at all anymore. It all points to the conclusion that you tend to destroy agriculture, which is exactly our chance. You obviously carry out what is the goal of the West, that our country weakens in every way, and also in the ability to feed its own population. When it comes to unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement, the current regime very perfiduously places the thesis that the reduction of customs duties means lower retail prices. First of all, reducing customs duties is no guarantee that retail prices will be lower. There is no guarantee that money that does not take the state will not be taken by an importer or a trader. We see that this again favors the import lobby. When it comes to defrauding citizens with the cheaping of goods here's an example, representatives of the ruling coalition say it will cheap cars. That's right. It will benefit directly those who plan to buy cars that 99% of citizens can only dream of. For example, an Audi 8, which now costs 77,000 euros, those who plan to buy this car will save about 7,000 euros and will pay only 70,000 euros. Those who plan to buy a car, whose value is now about as much as 12,000 euros, will save about a thousand euros. How many citizens have the opportunity to buy a car worth 12,000 euros? However, in cheaper cars, this saving figure is becoming symbolic. Experts say the cost of supplies and industrial goods will be negligible if there is any cost at all, if that part of which the state has given up does not end up in the pockets of importers or traders. And when it comes to basic foods, it won't be a relief for consumers to cut customs duties. Import food from the EU will not be cheaper. In the case of sugar and sunflower oil, there is no reduction in the total customs protection and these products will not be cheap. The government has decided to already mention lower state revenue than customs fees for larger excise duties on coffee, beer, cigarettes and fuel, which means these products will be more expensive in 2009, as well as by collecting mandatory car registration. This is a blow to the citizens' home budget. This budget envisions making up for a lower state income, so, you realize, burdening just threatened citizens. This budget is a blow to workers, pensioners and unemployed. On the other hand, the 2009 budget for the prime minister's cabinets and four vice-presidents envisions as much as 1.7m euros more than this year, as it is understood that your salaries should grow, that you should travel as much as possible, and when citizens, who survive -- they survived. It is, at the very least, rude, that as you tell your citizens to tighten the belt, you increase your wages. The Serbian government received 25.7% more funds in 2009 compared to 2008. Furthermore, it's unlikely that you're planning to increase the state administration too massively. Despite the fact that you are arguing that you are sticking to the European pathway, you are completely ignoring the conclusions of the European Commission's annual report, stressing that it is necessary to reduce a large-scale administration, which spends too much. You not only didn't try to cut it down or at least keep it at the current level, but you increase it. As many as 16 state secretaries were foreseen this year, as well as 1,646 new executives. This draft budget literally struck ordinary citizens and workers. The one who fills the budget, the worker, is completely humiliated, decommissioned, literally crushed. The extended fact of the general collective agreement, signed by the Serbian government with representatives of the two trade unions and the Union of Employers in November 2008, which was due to be applied as of 1 January 2009, envisions a payment of a warm meal and a regress. Now all you're saying is, there's no money for workers. That's why we see that there are cabinets, state secretaries, unnecessarily increasing the number of officials in the state administration, etc. We have a whole series of government promises and delusions. Let us just remember that the citizens were presented that the government in this composition was formed because the agreement was reached that this would be a socially responsible government, and the key objective was to increase the average pension to a level of 70% of the average salary. What's left of this promise? Absolutely nothing. Then, the promise to grant 1,000-euro free shares. Then, a contract with Fiat, announced as an amazing success, as a job of the century, was used only to deceive citizens in a pre-election campaign. We now see that it is a complete fiasco, the government's investments are envisaged, but it is quite uncertain whether Fiat will come at all and how many workers in Kragujevac will end up without a job. Today, unfortunately, reality is made up of daily drastic gatherings, job layoffs, an increasing number of poor people. The worker has been disfigured and humiliated. In the past month, a large number of employees have been illegally laid off illegally, and all that has been said by Minister Ljajic is that there are illegal layoffs. What does the government do? Absolutely nothing. There is no increased control of inspection services, nor are infringements against employers to violate the provisions of the Labour Act. What will be December 31st? It's the deadline for companies to privatize. If they're not privatized, another 45,000 workers are going to the labour market. So far, there are millions of unemployed. Over the next year, there is an announcement of the dismissal of about 10,000 educators. That, unfortunately, is not the only layoffs that are expected and announced. I remind you that you have promised 200,000 new jobs and that such a climate will be created that there will be no layoffs. We're going back to a deficit of about 50 billion dinars and the question is how is this deficit going to finance itself? A very bad solution is foreseen, which is to take credit from international institutions. Serbia's total external debt at the end of September was 20.5 billion euros. That's NBS data. This trend in external debt growth has continued and will continue. The growth of external debt will come from loans that Serbia will withdraw from international financial institutions, as well as from the IMF. You're making a deal with the IMF, and everyone who can get away from this institution, because it's a system for exploiting undeveloped countries. Recently, American economist and Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglic, who was a major IMF advocate, has been commenting on this arrangement that the current government has made with this institution. "Serbia's agreement with the IMF has not helped stabilise the entire economy and Serbia has not benefited at all." Stiglic explained that less developed countries have access to funds, but under limited conditions, with high interest rates and even more difficult domestic economies. Stiglic estimated that over-indebted countries, such as Serbia, would be more affected by the financial crisis because they must take money at higher interest. Finally, we can conclude that the disastrous economic and social policy of the current regime leads to even greater poverty of citizens, towards mass layoffs, towards increasing the socially endangered and unemployed. The country's policy is aimed at providing benefits and favourable climates exclusively for tycoons, and this policy reflects this budget as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12039	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 8 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Zivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12040	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask Mr. Vlahovic, I know he's had a longing to sit in front of him, if he could allow me to present my amendment. Thank you. As you can see, we are discussing and talking about amendments so that we can help this budget, not to be restrictive, but to be fruitful, and especially about one branch, which is a branch of agriculture. In Article 5, Section 8, there are figures for the Foreign Ministry, where the number of over 70 million moves, so I'm interested in where only this much money is provided for buying office materials, changing tires, and not to mention what it takes to make SMEs work. We in the SRS suggest that by 30 million these expenditures be reduced and transferred to division 14, where necessary for the realization of agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, if you see, Serbia is a cradle, a cradle in which they reign, as you can see, NGOs, where many intelligence services, which need to be financed, are ruled out. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, many of these intelligence services are in contact with people sitting in these benches. They're probably an extended arm of those intelligence services that they need and they want to tear this country apart. What is very important, I must tell the citizens of Serbia, those who have ruled you for eight years lie, eight years humiliate you, eight years destroy you. But, ladies and gentlemen, the end of your patience is slowly approaching. What I have to say is, in this section 14, it's supposed to increase production in agriculture, credit, regression, modernisation. I'm asking you, where has agricultural production increased in these eight years? You destroyed everything in these eight years, because you bought the agricultural products that Serbia produced at cheap prices, but that's why you imported everything and everything. Ladies and gentlemen, what our citizens today use on their tables is imports from Argentina, imports from Brazil or even from EU countries, where the goods were probably in freezers after seven or eight years. As far as lending is concerned, you're very good at lending peasants. But how? To put them in charge of foreign banks. You probably want to take away their households, mortgage their houses and property, so you go in this perfidious way of getting together, to have your tycoons pick up that martyrland, and the villagers work with them as a hired labor force. As for the regression, you've regressed them for eight years. You lied to them. You know how? When the elections come, then you give them a certain churchwoman, a hundred euros each, you lie to them, you promise them, you'll be fine, we think about you. As in 2000, the five-eyed revolution, when you said, all borders would be open, only farmers in the fields would sell goods and everyone would be nice. You double-crossed them again and you've been cheating on them all these eight years, but I don't think in 2009, you're going to cheat on them, because you have nothing more to take from them, because they've become naked and barefoot. As far as modernization is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know where to modernise them anymore, I don't know what to modernize them for, probably by buying waste from all over the EU, probably that agricultural machinery, because these mechanisms that need to be produced in Serbian factories are gone. No more IMT, no more dragons, you've closed it all up, and you should know, I'm a machineman, of the best production programs, tractors that were appreciated all over Europe, there was IMT, there was a dragon. I ask you, how and how do you want to modernise them, if you look at villages, whether it's an older peasant or an older mechanism that a peasant uses. Ladies and gentlemen, it's important that you have a good time. It's important, here you are gathering so you can vote the budget. Individuals here are rattling out and watching how and how they're going to profit. Last night when I was talking about the ones who are the biggest thieves, so I got confused, I can't remember if this guy has a last name or if this guy has that last name. They have the same name, but they have a different last name. Remember when you were selling factories, you said, first we'll watch the origin of the money from where it came from. Probably when the privatisation came, that's when the money was laundered, the money was laundered, and you know how. It was earned when it was the biggest economic blockade in Europe, which was in Serbia. When many were smuggling from both sides of the goods, that was to be washed, to create new tycoons, new businessmen, and these are the people who came from your ranks, that was your fight with the five-eyed revolution, to kidnap and rob Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, when you look at how many ministers have changed, everyone, thank God, is fatter, everyone is wider, look at their property cards, I don't need to tell you anything, they're saying everything. They made a lot of apartments, made a lot of foreign exchange books on foreign banks' accounts outside Serbia. That's what I have to tell you, and that's probably what hurts you. Probably a lot of people have to pay bills when the SRS comes to power tomorrow, then those fat or full-time ministers have to account for the Serbian citizens, ahead of today's poorest elite who sees you fat, how full of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12041	Gentlemen, please do not disturb the speaker. Gentlemen of the Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12042	Ladies and gentlemen, you promised to fight corruption and crime, but know for the past eight years I think Serbia is full of criminals, I think at a time when the minister of justice was Batic, when he went into one action, to build prisons in Serbia, he probably thought the time would come when it would be a new haven for many criminals, many of those who robbed Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, when you talk and talk about many experts, look where your experts are today. You're laughing, it's good that you're laughing, that Serbia and Serbia's citizens are watching you tonight, that those who are hungry look at you, that you've fooled you with blue packages in the election campaign. I ask you, will every child, the poorest child, mentioned in Roma settlements, receive a blue package? It won't be safe, ladies and gentlemen, let's be ashamed of it, because on your faces I see a smile, I see a smile on this young lady who said it was nice on Kim. I don't know, maybe she's pretty. See how in certain containers, how the Serbs warm themselves and how they must not come out to cut the wood so that they can warm their families. That's probably funny to you. It's funny because all these eight years you've been lying to the peasants, lying to the worker, lying to the pensioner. That's how and how you came. You've come on a white horse, but I'm sure you'll know you'll go on a donkey. Ladies and gentlemen, if we're talking about the most criminal firm today, which is the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, it's the site of the greatest criminals. Whatever criminal you need to put away, you put him away in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. I don't need to tell you where all this comes from and who are all involved in this crime. They're fighting how they're going to rob through banks, how any of them are going to take as many as possible and the bigger the loan size. You must know that on the most favourable loans. It's actually the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. She's struggling to get a job, she's not fighting for economic projects today in Serbia, she's struggling to rob Serbia. It is today's status and it is today Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, again today when you come to Belgrade and see where the NATO Pact office is, it is located at the Serbian General Staff. When you look where Eulex is, at the General Staff of Serbia. It is today, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia, that is what you cannot and will not admit that you have betrayed Serbia. That's why I said, today Serbia is like a cradle, Serbia has no borders, Serbia has no armies, Serbia has nothing, because you have destroyed everything. You see what your struggle for capital is, the one that's left to rob. That's what you're fighting for in Serbia. You're not fighting for jobs, you're lying, you're not fighting for anyone, you're just fighting for your pockets, you're fighting for so you can fly nice, you're fighting for winter, that's what you're fighting for in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you when I mentioned the high salaries of the MPs on this left hand side, when I came down for the pay phone, you all asked me why you talked about it. I was talking because now you show up when the vote is due and where you are so far. You say, the special effect of the work will begin and we will see who is and how much he has earned from the MPs. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, look at this right-hand side fighting to show Serbia and Serbia's citizens what the status of citizens is. You probably shouldn't come to the register to raise your living room and pay. You have no cheek, you laugh, Serbia is sad because of you. Thank you, citizens of Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12043	Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic answered the words, and then, according to the rules of procedure, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12044	Dear Presidency, MPs, I wanted to inform you that I have accepted five more amendments. I would just like to say that these are: the amendment of Milutin Jelicic to Article 5, with the correction, the amendment of Aleksandr Pejcic to Article 5, but with the correction, the amendment of Miroslav Petkovic to Article 6, with the corrections, the amendment of Milan Lapčević to Article 30, with the correction, and the amendment of Jorvanka Tabaković, with the addition of a new article 30a, with the correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12045	Thank you. The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one new year has been welcomed in one assembly to adopt the budget, perhaps this one too. You've done everything, you've broken the law, you've violated the Constitution, believing that by majorization and terror of the majority you'll be able to impose and realize your ideas. What you've been doing since the beginning, it's an attempt to just, exclusively, do to achieve and fulfill your political interests. Your interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens are not that they are not in the first, second or not, and I feel free to say that the ninth holes were playing. It is particularly obvious when it comes to the budget as the most important law that every assembly, each ruling majority with its attention prepares and allows MPs to try to correct their amendments as much as possible the government's proposal. The very fact that a large number of amendments have been adopted speaks about the usefulness of the opposition's work, however, it is an attempt for you to adopt the Constitution practically in a teat, when the time for adoption of the Constitution expires, only to again, in an inappropriate way, as you already do, to bring the opposition and especially the MPs of the SRS, to present them to the citizens of Serbia as irresponsible, who in any way allegedly obstructing the work of the Assembly, harm both the state and the citizens of Serbia. You have already prepared stories, already removed parts of speech from both the Assembly and the public, in order to support all these claims. We already have experience from 94, when the situation was similar, then the Assembly was disbanded, but then the government went full force to try to misinformation in every way possible to blame the SRS. However, we will give you the opportunity to vote for the budget tonight. We are still convinced that this budget is not good, because it harms the citizens of Serbia and, more importantly, there is a problem regarding some laws that will not be adopted. It is the Customs Tariffs Act, without that law you cannot implement the SAA, and then that means that what you have predicted with the budget will not be so, and we will probably have to go back to the Assembly again very quickly on the budget, that is, the revision, and then you will have the opportunity to show the citizens of Serbia, and you and we, too, that you were wrong, and we were right. I hope you have enough time left to vote the budget. We as an opposition party, so we don't doubt it, we'll get out of the O.R. because we never attended the vote when it comes to the budget. I hope that you will not be in the same position as when you were to pass the law amending the Law on travel documents, I hope that you have provided 126, because I do not know as soon as you are in front of the people and in front of Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12047	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12048	While I was passing by Mr. Zivanovic, he was throwing insulting expressions again, but there's a saying in Metohija, he says, "If you throw stone at every dog that barks at you, you'll never get where you're going. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm pleased to hear the truth with later wisdom, "smart-painted by smarter than the wealthy, "the SRS parliamentary group has not jumped into the pit they've been digging for the last few hours. It's nice to meet you. It's been a while since you disappeared from the political scene tonight. I'm glad you made a deal, unless that part of the deal you asked for about us was accepted, because it would be a little harder to implement. So you're the worst government, you steal all the money, you don't give it to the farmers, but you'll radically allow you to continue to rule. That's good. It's a good thing Serbia, if there are enough of you, is going to get a budget tonight. It's not good that it's going to cost farmers extra for a certain amount of money, but they will realize that unsatisfactory appetites have to be covered. It is good that the other opposition parties were serious and understood the weight of the task ahead of them. You have put us in a difficult position to punish the citizens of Serbia because you are not doing your job right. We were not prepared to punish Serbian citizens and were not ready to negotiate with you conditions under which we do not want to punish Serbian citizens. We told you in advance, and I think it was pointless to lose these three days, to arrange on time, not to torture the people's MPs or the citizens of Serbia, we could have decided three days ago and voted. The Serbian Progressive Party MP group is pleased with the outcome of today's session. It turns out we're at least five steps ahead of some. Turns out you're gonna follow us and maybe that's a way to survive. If there's any reason in you, just watch what we do and you won't sin. I congratulate the citizens of Serbia in advance New Year's Eve, Christmas, the Serbian New Year's, and I'm ordering -- you'll be a little relieved by this budget vote, don't do much research as it happened, it will be known, no secret has been buried until the end. "There are goats in Tsar Troyan's ears." I call on the government to focus on the crisis that is coming, on the crisis that awaits us, that it does not always count on bribery and blackmail to rule Serbia. I call on the government to get serious or to part ways, to go to an emergency parliamentary election. And you're aware of that, this is one battle won for you, but it's obvious that if you continue this way, Serbia can lose the war. Thank you. (During this speech, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12049	Mr. Todorovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12050	As for your battles, Tomislav Nikolic, you only won them in the SRS. Believe me, I'm sorry, but I've chosen my way, and it's gonna happen to you the way I told you. You no longer decide on you, Boris Tadic and Aleksandar Vukic decide on you, and they will leave you both soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12051	On Article 5, sections 8 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 8 and 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Ilichu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12052	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, just to calm this situation in parliament, it's a little strange, say the government is being led by someone outside the government. (The President: Gentlemen of the Messengers, I beg you for silence. I'll be very brief, since there's a New Year's Eve here. I see you're looking forward to a lot of work. I just want to draw attention to one thing. The budget is very bad. That's what the finance minister knows. We wanted to fix it, we failed because you didn't want to fix it. Here, as you can see, as the bosses call, everything has been agreed, agreed, I don't want to distract both the citizens of Serbia and you, and that's why all these amendments that come in line with New Serbia are being withdrawn and we don't want to discuss any further. Happy New Year. It will be difficult for you from the government, but be responsible, don't let this situation happen again. It's stupid in this kind of mood to continue serious topics and serious conversations. Therefore, we withdraw all amendments and no longer want to debate. Once the debate is more serious, we'll be in on it. We are very sorry that this union amendment is not supported. You signed a collective agreement. We fought as hard as we could, you wouldn't accept and you'd be responsible for the union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12053	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. On Article 5, section 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Pulled. On Article 5, sections 9 and 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 10 and 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 11 and 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment has been withdrawn. On Article 5, section 12, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic to Article 5 of Sections 12 and 14 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic to the members of the 5th Sections 19 and 14th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Đuric to Article 5 of Sections 12 and 15 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted to the 5th Sections 12 and 15th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 12 and 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic, submitted the amendments to Section 5 of 19 and 23 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic to Article 5 of Sections 12 and 25 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(6) of the Budgetary System Act. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 13 and 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. This amendment has been withdrawn and has been withdrawn and the following, and Zoran Mašić. On Article 5, the 14 amendments with the correction were submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with the correction legally possible and has become an integral part of the text of the bill. On page 5, the 19th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 5, the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic to Article 5 of Sections 14 and 15 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic to Article 5 of Sections 14 and 19 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov to Article 5 of Sections 14 and 17 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic to section 5. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic to Article 5 of the amendments. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 5th Sections 14 and 24th of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 14 and 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic to Sections 14 and 27. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic to Article 5 of Sections 14 and 27 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic to section 5 of the 15th and 19th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic to Article 5 of Sections 15 and 21 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by MP Zoran Shami. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Ilic to article 5 of Sections 17 and 27 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic to article 5 of Sections 17 and 48 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric to Article 5 of the 19th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to the 5th Sections 19 and 27th of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 20th Amendment, he was withdrawn by MP Mileta Poscurica. The amendments were submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic to Sections 20 and 23. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 21st Amendment was withdrawn by MP Predrag Mijatovic. On Article 5, the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the Amendment 22 and 55, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment and became an integral text of the bill. On Article 5 of the 23rd Amendment, MP Gorica Mojovic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 24th Amendment, he was withdrawn by the People's MP Bozidar Delic. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the amendment to section 5 of the 25th. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 2(6) and 7 of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 26 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović to article 5 of Sections 34 and 48 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic and withdrew the amendment. On article 5, the 36th Amendment was filed by Jorvanka Tabakovic, and it withdrew. The 36th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic to article 5 of Sections 36 and 55 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 5, the 46th Amendment was withdrawn by MP Zoran Babic. On page 5, the 47th amendment was withdrawn by MP Milan Knezevic. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to section 5 of the 47th and 48th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to article 6 by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 6, the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov to article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment, National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 6, the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment, the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th section of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarević. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 6, the 57th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with the correction legally possible, so this amendment with the correction became an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 6th edition of the 57th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Slobodan Vukovic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic to the 6th Sections 57 and 58th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to the 6th Sections 57 and 58th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, with correction, was submitted to the 6th Sections 57 and 58th, by the MP Alexander Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic to the 6th Sections 57 and 58th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to the 6th Sections 57 and 59th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic to the 6th Sections 57 and 60th. The government has accepted this amendment, the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic to section 6 of the 57th and 61st of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic to article 6th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to Article 6 of the 58th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to article 6 of the amendment by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to article 6th of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic to Article 6th of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic to article 6th of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momir Markovic submitted to article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic to article 6th of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Predrag Mijatovic withdrew his amendment. National MP Milos Radulovic submitted to article 6 of the 59th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 59th Amendment was submitted to article 6 by MP Zoran Shami. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 59th Amendment was submitted to article 6 by MP Arsen Djuric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to article 6th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 6th section of the 60th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 6th section of the 60th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 61st Amendment was submitted to article 6 by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliament MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to Article 6 of the 61st Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 61st Amendment was submitted to article 6 by MP Sladjan Miljajevic. The government and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 61st Amendment was submitted to article 6 by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The government and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Veroljub Arsic withdrew his amendment to Article 9. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The government and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Marina Toman has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 11a be added after article 11. The government and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The government and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Veroljub Arsic and Mirko Munjic submitted. Veroljub Arsic withdrew the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic, who withdrew his amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Mašić and Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Zoran Mašić withdrew this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing that a new member of 30a be added after article 30a. The government has accepted this amendment, the Finance Committee has accepted this amendment, with a correction. The legislative committee considers the amendment legally possible, the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Arsen Djuric has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 31a be added after article 31. The government and the Financial Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? Yeah. Here you are, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12054	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs and citizens of Serbia, after seven days of discussion in parliament, and believe me, I have listened carefully to almost every spoken word, and I wanted someone to tell me something that was said to Harry Potter. You're a wizard, Harry, that's what he was told. Unfortunately, I'm not a magician, and I couldn't make a budget that everyone would be happy about. 241 amendments have arrived at this budget. What kind of amendments were they? Often the same, similar, mutually exclusive, funny, warning and very quality. The government adopted 20 amendments formally, but since they were the same and similar, and since you adopted 16 one, the essential government adopted 40 amendments. I would like to repeat once again that the number of amendments can therefore not be the result of poor budget quality. He's just a result of different priorities. Even when the amendments came from one parliamentary group, 16 amendments to the famous Article 4, all 16 amendments were submitted by MPs of the same parliamentary group, wanting some funds to go to another municipality. So they have no single position either, and it is not by chance that the number of amendments does not talk about the quality of the budget. How do others do that? No one discusses the budget for six months or Poland. A lot of people are late. Late, for example, European Union countries, like Hungary. They are late and those closer to the EU than we are to Croatia. I said I don't like to take Croatia as an example, but let's say it's interesting that the Croatian government adopted the budget the same day as the Serbian. That was December 7th. Unlike the Serbian parliament, the Croatian parliament adopted the budget on December 15th. The debate lasted only five hours. There were 80 amendments and none were accepted, and the opposition to that budget spoke similarly to ours, that it was a circus. What were the amendments further? These were amendments that could probably not be found in other European countries. There have been amendments that have leprosydled on the fiscal outcome from the aspect of the methodology. Some MPs have different definitions of amendments. The deficit itself is not evil, and whoever thinks it, thinks the opposite of both theory and practice. Also, MPs have their inflation indicators, because they do not trust official statistics. There were also polemics, even from MPs I unusually appreciate, about how to finance the deficit, mostly when it comes to loans and funds for privatisation. Funding deficits with loans is a completely legitimate thing. If it's normal for the economy or the population to take loans, it's normal for the state to do the same. It just matters why the state takes credit. It is perfectly legitimate and standard to take loans to pay off some long-term loans or large investment projects. Corridor 10 is a 4 billion-euro project. There is no state that can finance it from regular incomes. This is the biggest budget. The budget of 2001 was 132 billion, 2009 758, but the republican budget absorbed some of the functions of the federal budget, yet passed on some functions to the Vojvodina budget. These are incomparable things. If you were to look at the consolidated consumption of the country in 2001 and 2009, you would see that in 2009, it is indeed consolidated and larger four times, but it is six times bigger, but the social product is four times larger. Budget restrictiveness is doubted, but only by careful comparison of fiscal results, social product tax participation, or tax revenues and public spending, you would see that this is a more restrictive budget. The reality of the forecast; the economy is not a natural science and can never predict the exact outcome, because different economic actors on the same change, on the same challenge, on the same chance or risk, react differently. In the end, the result is the sum of all these different outcomes. Otherwise, there's a joke about economists and their predictive technique. The economist is also said to be an expert who will know tomorrow why what he predicted yesterday didn't come true today. But in the event that incomes are lower, the Budgetary System Act leaves enough space for the minister to behave in line with reduced revenues. Of course, I've prepared answers to all your questions, but if you don't want to hear the answers, then I'll finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12055	Gentlemen, we must agree that Madam Minister has listened very carefully and I ask you to allow her to be heard by us. Please, she listened to both opposition and position. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12056	I had the best desire to answer all the questions, but this is the best evidence that essentially no questions were asked in order to hear the answers. So I'm gonna finish up, and I'm gonna say that I really want each and every one of you individually and all of us together to be the best. And this budget really is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-29-0.u12057	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I remind you, according to Article 152, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly, can set a day for the vote on the draft budget law during the session, without waiting for the debate to be concluded in principle and in particular on the other points of the agenda. I set a day for voting on the draft law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions, for 29.12.2008, starting at 21.05. [[After break – 21.05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision, we need to establish a quorum for work. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. The implementation of the electronic voting system has established that 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for decision-making. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. One year, with the financial plans of the pension-invalid Fund, the Health Insurance and Employment Service Office of Serbia before we move to a decision on a draft law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 128, against 29, of 157 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and the transition to the amendment decision, I remind you that the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: written by Radovan Radovanović on Article 5 of Section 16 and Article 5 of Chapter 12.1, Milan Lapčević on Articles 1, 2 and 5, submitted on December 18th at 20.45 minutes, Milan Dimitrijevic on Article 5, Sections 1 and 58, Milica Radović on Article 1 submitted on December 12th and Olena Papuga on Article 5th of the 5th division 26th, submitted on December 15th and 28th, Jorvanka Tabaković on Members 1st and 5th, Veroljub Arsić on Articles 2, 5 and 16, Zoran Antic on Articles 3 and 5th, Zoran Antic on Articles 5th and 5th, Zoran Mašić on Articles 5th, 5th and 28th, Mićo Rogić on Articles 3 and 5th and 5th and 5th of the Members of the Members of the Charter of the Members of the Law, Mr of the Members of the Members of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of On the basis of Article146 , paragraph2 . The Rules of Procedure of the NationalAssembly , the Legislative Committeerejected , asuntimely , the amendments of the National MPs of Mom Colakovic to the members of the 1st and 25th and Konstantin Arsenović to Articles 3 and5 . Part of theBill 's draft became an amendment of thePeople 'sMPs : Zoran Nikolic to Articles1 , 2 and to Article6 , with acorrection ; Milos Aligrudić to Article4 , with acorrection ; Milice Radovic to Article5 ; Milan Škrbić to Article5 ; Milorad Krstina to Article5 ; Milutin Jelicic to Article5 , withcorrection ; Aleksandra Pejčić to Article5 , withcorrection ; Sladjana Mijaljevic to Article6 ; Miroslav Petkovic to Article 6 withcorrection ; Jorgenke Tabaković to Articles9 , 11 and12 ; Marine Toman to add a new member of11a ; Marine Ragus to Article25 ; Milan Lapčević to Article30 , withcorrection ; Jorge Tabaković to add a new member of30a , with acorrection , and Arsen Djuric to add a new member of31 , amendments to the Committee for Finance and5 .We 're moving on to a decision on theamendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 25 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 123, five out of 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 124, four of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Tomic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 122, six out of 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 124, four of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 25 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 122, six of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic-Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 124, four of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 124, five out of 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 124, four out of 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 123, five out of 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 119, 10 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 124, 24 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 124, five out of 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 124, four out of 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 124, four of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 120, there was no vote of 8 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 121, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 27 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 115, 29 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, with 24 abstentions, 27 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 124, four of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 127, they did not vote two out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Tomic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 127, he did not vote one out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 127, he did not vote one out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, v. 127, of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 126, two of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Vladimir Milentijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 126, one of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 4th amendment. He became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 128 of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 127, of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 128, of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic-Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 127, of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 128, of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 127, of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 128, of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to the 5th Sections 1 and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, they did not vote 23, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 5 of Sections 2 and 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Section 2, 3, 7, 9 and 15, by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 124, four of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by Slobodan Samardzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 128, of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted to article 5 of the amendment by Riza Halimi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 121, they did not vote 23, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Tomislav Nikolic submitted to Article 5 of the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 28 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted to article 5 of the amendment by Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, they did not vote 32, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5 of Section 3, 12 14, 15, 17, 34 and 55, MP Milan Lapcevic submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 123, five out of 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted the amendments to Sections 3 and 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 28 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Milorad Buh, to Sections 3 and 14 of the 5th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 25 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 25 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 14 of the amendment by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, 29 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th Sections 3 and 14th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 25 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to Sections 3 and 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Sections 3 and 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 25 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 27 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic to section 5th and 19th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 123, five out of 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to the 5th Sections 3 and 19th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic to Sections 3 and 21. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 122, six of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Sections 3, 21, 22 and 27. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 122, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Nikola Lazic to Sections 3 and 24. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 122, six of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MP, Ms Radet, submitted to the 5th Sections 3 and 25th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 27 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Divisions 3 and 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 121, 8 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Sections 4 and 14th of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 26 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 26 of the 147 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 27 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric to Article 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 27 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Article 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 28 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Sections 5 and 14th of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the MP Marina Toman to the 5th and 14th sections. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 30 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic to Article 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 28 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 28 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic to Sections 6 and 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 28 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to Sections 8 and 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 121, it was not 28 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 27 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic to Article 5 of Sections 8 and 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, the two abstentions, did not vote 28 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Divisions 8 and 23th of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 29 of the 150 MPs present did not vote against 121. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic to article 5 of Sections 9 and 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, it did not vote 32 out of 150 MPs present. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic to the 5th Divisions 10th and 19th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, there were no 28 votes, out of the 150 MPs present. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to article 5 of Sections 11 and 19 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, against 117, there were no 27 votes, out of the 150 MPs present. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 30 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 27 of the 150 MPs present did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric to the 5th Divisions 12th and 15th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 123, a abstentioned one, was not voted by five, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic to section 5th and 15th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic to section 5th and 14th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 25 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Divisions 12th and 23rd amendments were submitted by MP Aleksandra Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic to section 5th and 25th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 123, six out of 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to section 5 of the 13th and 19th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 124, 25 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted the amendments to Sections 14 and 15. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Mladen Grujic to Sections 14th and 16th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 30 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov to section 5. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 31 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic to section 5th and 17th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 26 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted the amendments to Sections 14 and 18. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 31, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MP Branimir Djokic submitted the amendments to Sections 14 and 24. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, there were no 28 votes, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 5th Divisions 14th and 26th amendments were submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, 29 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The National MP Gordana Paunović - Milosavljevic submitted to the 5th sections of the 14th and 27th amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 30 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic to section 5th and 27th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 30 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic to section 5 of the 15th and 19th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 117, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11 out of 150 MPs present. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic to section 5th and 21st. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 128, 10 of the 150 MPs present did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by Zoran Shami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 119, a abstentioned one, was not voted 9 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 5th Divisions 17th and 27th amendments were submitted by MP Velimir Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, there were no 28 votes, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic to section 5 of the 17th and 48th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 121, 7 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Vesna Maric submitted to article 5 of the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, there were no 28 votes, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Divisions 19th and 27th amendments were submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 27 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic to Sections 20 and 23. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5 of Section 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 26 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 27 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 23rd amendment was submitted by Gorica Mojovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 117, 31 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 30 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Sections 26 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olena Papuga. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 114, the vote was not 31, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic to section 5 of the 34th and 48th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic to section 5 of the 36th and 55th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to section 5 of the 47th and 48th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, it did not vote 35 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milica Radovic submitted to the 6th edition of the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 118, 10 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, the 57th Amendment was submitted by Željko Tomic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th of the amendment, Dobrislav Prelic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 6, the 57th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 30 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 6th edition of the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 30 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragan Zivkov submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 30 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Goran Mihajlovic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, it did not vote 32 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, the 57th Amendment was submitted by Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. She submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment Marina Toman. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. against 118, it did not vote 32, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, he did not vote 31, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, they did not vote 32 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 6th section of the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, they did not vote 33, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radica Jocic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, it did not vote 35 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 6, the 57th amendment was submitted by Radis Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, he did not vote 31, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarević to Article 6th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 27 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 6th edition of the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to Article 6th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, he did not vote 31, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Division of the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, there were no 28 votes, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic to section 6 of the 57th and 58th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment, with corrections, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to section 6 of the 57th and 58th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote, with a correction. Against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 29, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment, with a correction. At Section 6 of the 57th and 58th amendments, with correction, were submitted by MP Aleksandra Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote, with a correction. Against 120, 29 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment, with a correction. The amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic to section 6 of the 57th and 58th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 122, six of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to section 6 of the 57th and 59th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 26 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic to section 6 of the 57th and 61st of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 119, 10 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic to article 6th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 119, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević to Article 6th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 119, 9 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. He submitted to Article 6 of the 58th Amendment to Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, he did not vote 31, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th edition of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, they did not vote 32, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to article 6th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 26 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic to article 6th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, he did not vote 31, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic to article 6th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, the 58th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 122, 27 out of 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic to section 6th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milos Radulovic submitted to article 6 of the 59th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 120, there was no vote of 8 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 6, the 59th Amendment was filed by Zoran Shami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 122, five out of 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted to article 6 by Arsen Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th edition of the 60th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, there were no 28 votes, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th edition of the 60th amendment was submitted by Zoran Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 30 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th edition of the 60th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 123, 25 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th edition of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 120, 9 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th edition of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 120, 29 out of 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Vukicevic submitted to Article 6 of the 61st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 29 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 120, there was no vote of 8 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 27 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 30 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, it did not vote 30 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 28 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 25 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 25 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 115, it did not vote 26 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117 abstentions, 29 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 120, 27 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 28 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 29 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 27 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 26 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 28 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 113, 30 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 27 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 27 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 27 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122 abstentions, one was not voted 26 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 28 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 27 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, he did not vote 31, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, a abstentioned one, not 27, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dear People's MPs, I find that several amendments to the text of the draft law have been adopted, some of which require technical harmonisation of certain provisions of the bill with the amendments adopted. Namely, pursuant to Article 10. The law on the budgetary system, the budget consists of a general and specific part, which must be brought into line with the types of expenditure. Some of the amendments have been amended in a specific part of the budget, which has not been followed by appropriate technical harmonisation of the general budget provisions. Given that, I suggest that the National Assembly Service, before the publication of the Law, in co-operation with the appropriate government service, carry out this technical harmonisation of the text of the Law with the amendments adopted. I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to plead with him. For 129 against two, it did not vote 19 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 129, against 21, of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. Since we adopted the 2009 Bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we are moving to a decision on the proposals for decisions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives consent to the financial plans for 2009: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, (b) the Republic Health Insurance Institute and (v) the National Employment Service. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2009. For 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2009. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the 2009 financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. For 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2009. I am putting the draft decision on granting consent to the 2009 National Employment Service's financial plan. For 129 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2009 National Employment Service's financial plan. The honourable MPs, since they are in consultation with the government on the other points of the agenda, are setting a 15-minute break.
