ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7897	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 139 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the President of the People's Republic, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, agrees with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF ORGANISATION (resuming in particular) In the course of the session, we stopped at the amendment to Article 78, which was submitted by MP Arsen Đurić. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 226 and I expect the Government to provide us with an answer to the question – why has it not yet implemented what the law requires it to do, in connection with a letter addressed to the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, to deliver all documents related to the famous route of the "Nikola Tesla" Airport in Bodrum, in connection with a project called Bodrum - Milas, which is reportedly worth about 100m euros? It's been more than two months since we asked for that answer. The information commissioner also delivered a solution that the director of the Bojan Kristo airport delivers it, however, there is still no letter. I suppose you, like all of our citizens, have the opportunity to see how much of the vermin Bojan Kristo is. You remember here I was giving you information about how G17 works and its members, especially one that's quite impressive, it's the director of Bojan Kristo Airport. Otherwise, he is also known for the "Lutrija Srbija", which he has completely ruined. Just a reminder, his car rental costs 78,349 Swiss francs. Then, to visit that Bojan Kristo in December, when he led the "Nikola Tesla" airport, paid 135 million severance fees for 141 workers, that two of those workers in January worked under the contract for work, Gasic Radojka received 70,000 dinars, and Radivoje Rajakovic, who also received the severance, immediately hired in "public ski resorts"; otherwise, he received a severance of 3,515,000. I said that at that time, in October, the director's salary for "Nikola Tesla" was 382,000 dinars, but that's not all. You've had a chance to hear that in just one month, Bojan Kristo took nearly 12,000 euros, which is 960,000 dinars. Not only did he take 960,000 dinars for only one month, but, here, as he pays his wages, although he won't tell you who they paid for – once, 516 thousand, the other, 562,000, the third, 581 thousand, and what's particularly interesting, it says – Kristo gave 538 thousand to the officials... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) I know it's 30 and how many seconds more, but look at these millions of amounts paid out of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which Serbian citizens are paying bloodyly, how this money is being spent. How long do you think you're robbing Serbia and Serbian citizens? We warned Bojan Krishti... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... And, as far as we have information, our criticisms have reached him. I guess he'll put some money back in the Republic of Serbia's budget. As long as you are in power, Serbia has no chance of getting out of the crisis it is in, until you are responsible for everything you've done to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7899	I ask the National Assembly to deliver a stenogram of the presentation of MP Dragan Todorovic to both the competent ministry and the Commissioner for Information. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7900	Mrs. Komic, that's Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When I mentioned that member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I don't think you directly violated that provision. What's this about? The fact is that for weeks now, the National Assembly has been sitting and the fact is, and it can also be seen in a stenogram, that I am at least twice a week from this pay phone, in terms of art. In 225 and 226, he sought an explanation for all MPs of the National Assembly, and it is understood to be available to the public, and this explanation was related – where does the NBS keep foreign reserves? Are foreign exchange reserves in Serbia or abroad? How do foreign reserves be kept, in what form? There is an understanding of some people, who are professionally involved in this area, that foreign foreign exchange reserves are located. Why abroad? They've been laid there and represent a certain guarantee that this country will repay those loans it's taken for the past eight years. Of course, in such a situation, when the financial market is disrupted, the NBS daily comes from some state reserves to an appropriate amount of foreign exchanges to calm down the course, thus calling into question the savings and savings roles of citizens. In order for it not to happen again in 1993, and it would not happen that because of European standards our citizens are left without their foreign exchanges, the answer and the explanation are necessary in order for everyone in this country to know that someone tells them to be calm, that for a reason they can be calm, and not that advertising appears through television, as in the days of Dafina and Jazda, and the reality is completely different. I don't want to prejudge anything, I'm just looking for an explanation, so we can function, especially since at the end of this session we have those three very important points concerning the financial system. After all, I apologize for these seconds, I think that someone from this place has to explain to the citizens what the global financial crisis is, because here the global financial crisis, as a concept, is being misused for everything and everything, and, as a rule, for crime, such as its own-time word, the European, EU, has been misused today for even worse crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7901	I ask the service to refer to the National Bank of Serbia as a request for an explanation. He wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Markicevic. He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7902	Dear Vice-Presidents, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226, because we need one notice, and it concerns our work directly in the congregation. I think the answer to this question, which I am asking you, Vice President, could be given to us immediately, because we don't need to ask the ministers for what I want to ask, or for the answer I'm asking for. This morning, the following announcement came to our Parliament club, and I believe in other parliamentary clubs: "Republic of Serbia, National Assembly, Youth and Sports Committee, November 20th. People's MPs, employees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are informing all interested that I may need tickets to the third car game of the UEFA Group Group, FK 'Partizan' – 'Standard Liez', which is played on Thursday. '"The price of tickets is so much and so much. Interested people should bring money for tickets to the Secretary of the Committee, Dejan Jeftovic, King Milan, phone, up to 12 hours. Since, roughly, the public works in the National Assembly is what it is, Serbian citizens, offered to write information and media about privileged MPs, they think we should get these tickets for free, and some are already calling for these tickets. That's one part of the question, and the other part of the question is, I ask the president of the Youth and Sports Committee, is this committee meeting, has this committee heard that several young athletes are about to leave this country, because they have not been kept with their promises from the government of the Republic of Serbia, because they have not been given adequate conditions to fight for our country honestly and honestly, as they have so far worked and how they've affirmed us in the world? Is this the job of the Youth and Sports Committee and, in general, the secretary of the Assembly, or the deputy, or secretary, writes here – the Committee, does this need the Committee on Sports and Youth to deal with or something else, much more important for athletes and citizens of this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7903	Unfortunately, I can't answer you any more than it says in that memo. So the tickets are paid, so they're paid. National MP Vladan Batic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, almost a month ago, I asked the government to answer questions about the abuses of Belgrade's Director General Bojan Krisht. I also asked the government to replace Bojan Krishte, after finding out about one-off fees for board members, for bar bills, for salaries, for fees, for airline flights, for hotel bills and the like. There's no answer. I am now asking the following questions and asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia for an answer. Is it true that the work contracts in Belgrade Airport figure out the following bonuses, for directors, so to speak, a little lower ranking – 40,000 euros annually, slightly more than 60,000 euros for directors, for deputy director-general – 80,000 euros and for Director-General – 120,000 euros. How much of that was charged? Next set of questions. Is the company "Alex Company" owned by a man who's in close relatives or godfather ties with Bojan Krist? Is this firm the biggest contractor currently at Belgrade Airport? Did the company, for the purposes of "Lutria Belgrade", while Bojan Kristo, perform some 250,000 euros worth of works? Did the company perform 1m-euro works for the Grand Casino at the hotel Yugoslavia? Is he, and we know he is, the owner of Martin Schlaff's Grand Casino? Here's something that's not a question. Bojan Kristo hired Velimir Radosavljevic before the end of last year, which is the information published by "Pres", I gave it to them yesterday, under the contract of work, and, among other things, it helps Bojan Krist in the management of the company. At the time he was a university professor, today he is a deputy director-general, and in the same way, a member of G17, and in a month and a half or two months, he charged, under the contract of work, to assist the Director-General, to work, in what he should do – more than 7,000 euros. Then Mladjan Dinkic says – I will not change him, let him pay back the money. It's immoral. That's no way to work. That's why I'm asking the government to replace Bojan Krishte, or she's complicit in his abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7905	I ask the service to refer a stenogram of the National MP Vladan Batic to the competent ministry, with a request for an explanation. Does anyone else want a word in the debate on the amendment to Article 78 submitted by MP Arsen Djuric? National MP Verica Radeta was reported on the previous working day on Thursday.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Mr Krasic said from the scene, after all this data on crime within the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is difficult to turn to what was started Thursday, and these are amendments to the draft law on the regulation of courts, but we also have to do so. A debate was launched Thursday on the basis of amendments by counterpart Dragan Shormaz, on whether the law should include "judicial police" or "judicial guard". The amendment was in the sense that the words "judicial guard" in Article 77, which speaks of the court's security, as well as in Article 78, which we are now discussing, that is, the amendment to that article. And then they heard different opinions about whether it should say "judicial guard," whether "judicial police." In the context of the explanations of these amendments, there were also a lot of criticism about the work of the judicial authorities, i.e. the reminders of the fact that some courts had been entering with guns, that the accused had fled from the courts, that they had been shot at by judges, etc. So, no matter what it's called, it's obvious that something needs to be done to improve the situation in that part of the judiciary. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted an amendment to change this term, with a very strange explanation. I will remind myself of this argument, because the government says that the amendment does not accept because the area concerned by the judicial guard, the security of judicial bodies' facilities, as well as the security of judicial and judicial staff, will be regulated by a special law, which is not possible at this time, given the provisions of the Police Act, as well as the internal organisation of police and the authority of police officers. The Ministry of Justice will also take into account the solutions proposed in the amendments of Members of Parliament to Articles 77 to 81 when drawing up that law, which must include the Ministry of Justice. Proposal for a court-ordered law. This argument, in fact, this government's recognition is, at the very least, inconclusive. I guess the government works so that the ministers and the ministries communicate with each other and it would be normal and logical that, if the law on police is to be amended, this law is done so that when it is passed we do not have to waste time again from a few days when we are discussing changes and additions to this law, and that is already announced in the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is what we in the SRS are persistently trying to draw attention to the representative of the Government, not just now and not just about these laws. In fact, the government must work seriously on the bill's proposals, Parliament must also do serious work and take care of amendments by MPs when it comes to the obvious intention to correct the text of the law. Both the government and the assembly majority go deaf every time to our appeals, and then we have a situation that in a month, two, three, five at most, we have amendments and additions to the law, and we have already spent a certain number of days on passing that law. Then we have a situation where the government should boast, and the majority of parliament, say -- so many laws have been passed, and in fact, three or four laws have been passed, or five laws, and twenty amendments and additions to the law, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia is very irresponsible and irresponsible, above all, towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, when the government and the assembly majority show that they are effective, then they say opposition MPs are obstructing the work. Why? Because they're talking about the government's proposal, because they're criticizing the government's proposal, because they're drawing attention, and it turns out very quickly that they're absolutely right. But regardless of what you're trying to do, we from the SRS will, quite certainly, participate in the work, in a way that we'll talk about every amendment, express the position of the SRS, and we'll never let you call it any kind of obstruction, any kind of delay. This is the work of the MPs, as well as the interventions of the Rules of Procedure. Just what you just heard from Mr Dragan Todorovic and Mr Batic about Bojan Krist is saying that you cannot think about making it impossible for MPs to speak on the basis of members 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because such cases as we just heard can't wait for the MP to speak in writing, waiting for the competent ministry to inform that MP only in writing. These are things to talk about in public. You can't hide the fact that you have, obviously, thieves and criminals in the government and around the government and we're bound to our voters, first of all, to talk about it, and we'll talk about it. We're sorry that you're angry about this, but it would be nice if you could help us, if you from the congregation's majority, make these from the government disperse criminals, even if there are two or three ministers left in the government. When it comes to Mr Arsen Đuric's amendment, which is also related to the judicial guard or the judicial police, I would like to say that it is very interesting why you did not accept, Mrs Malovic, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the term "judicial guard" be replaced by "judicial police", when it is obvious that you will do so very quickly. On the other hand, we have so many different police, known and unknown, that we don't see why it would bother to call this court security too. We have the financial police, it's announced that the introduction of the next months of the municipal police, so we have all kinds of police, but we have one police force that no one in the state of Serbia will say they know exists. In my time, this was in July 2007, I asked the Minister of Interior, Mr Jocic, and since his answer was that he did not know that there were police that I was talking about, or that there was some police in Serbia that was exclusively in the jurisdiction of the UN tribunal, or the Office of the Hague tribunal, and since it was not clear enough, I asked Mr Dacic again – who provides the facility in Jevrem Grujic, number 11, where is the Office of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia? Of course, again, I received a similar response – police in the jurisdiction of the MUP do not provide this facility, and people who were invited there or, minority, were forced, blackmailed, etc., have repeatedly confirmed that there are our police, Serbian police, which provide the facility, which provides employees in Jevrem Grujic with number 11, or those who come from The Hague tribunal to harass Serbian citizens, trying to extort from them statements that suit them. Last night, in a domestic series, it was excellently depicted how the Hague tribunal is doing, and it reminded us very much of what we heard, we of the team for the defence of Vojislav Seselj, and what Mr Vojislav Seselj published in his books, in which they are trying to force Serbian citizens to testify in proceedings against our citizens in The Hague tribunal, in which way the state authorities are involved, how they are threatened, how they are being blackmailed, how money is offered to them, so all that happens years ago, and we still don't know who the police are, who these people are and who pay them. Is it possible that these people are paid by the Republic of Serbia, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia, without ministers and ministries having no idea that there are such police, at least not in the jurisdiction of the MUP, but that it is some police working exclusively for the needs of the UN tribunal, and neither the current minister knows whose jurisdiction the police are in. It's really a problem we need to get an answer to. I repeat my question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, if they do not know the ministers, then they certainly know, in particular, that Boris Tadic should know, as he manages both the government and tries to manage the judiciary. We saw this in the previous days, on Friday especially, what chaos was in the Belgrade District Court when they changed the Council, when judges opposed the decision when it came to the Zemun municipality, when Skoric was re-engaged. I remind you, I have spoken several times about this particular Zeljko Skorić and the fear that he will be awarded the case, because he has proved himself cooperative with the authority of the Republic of Serbia, with the executive authority, with the dictatorial authority of Boris Tadic, who, apparently, is trying to round up his dictatorship and these laws now on the agenda, that is, when it comes, to apply these laws, to round the judiciary by having judges like Željko Škorić, who will blindly fulfil the tasks of Boris Tadic, Dragan Gilas. They actually want to have power over the judicial authorities, and the story of someone here wanting an independent judiciary, it's a story for little children, not about you, Madam Minister. I believe your intentions are sincere, but I warn you now, you will understand very quickly, that you are being abused to do what Boris Tadic wants you to do. You probably think you're doing the right thing, you're doing it in the interest of justice, but you'll soon understand that you're only working in the interest of Boris Tadic and in the interest of the goals that he, Gilas and a few other people around them have drawn, which is, literally, the introduction of dictatorship in Serbia. Because everything that's done in the area of justice and what we heard at the beginning of today's work day, and it's about this crime in the government, it's all about that, because they're talking to us for free, we can talk as much as we want, Tadic said -- can Kristo, can a criminal, and that's how it stands, and that's how Serbian citizens have to suffer, but, be sure, they won't be able to for much longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7907	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic, after him, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7908	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Mrs Malovic, the DSS MP group has submitted seven amendments to the draft law on the regulation of courts. I would like to express once again the satisfaction of accepting one of our amendments to this bill, but we will try to convince you in particular that it is really necessary to accept the amendments that we have submitted, first of all, to chapter seven, relating to the court's security. On Thursday, you had a chance to hear from DSS MPs, in one great argument, why it is necessary to accept the amendments to the article. 77th and 78th. I think the other MP groups in the opposition understood our wish and, indeed, supported these amendments and colleagues Shormaz and Đurić in the discussion, and I will try to explain the amendment that I submitted to Article 79 – the regulation of the judicial guard. We ask, above all, that the term "judicial guard" be changed to "judicial police" to change the jurisdiction and authority of this judicial police. Article 79 states that the regulation of the judicial guard, the uniform of its members, the arms and official legislation is more detailed by the minister responsible for the judiciary. Madam Minister, with all due respect, I think we should consult some other law and police law. We know very well what is governed by the Law on Police and what should be regulated by this law on the regulation of courts, which are jurisdiction, the powers of the Ministry of Justice, which are the responsibilities of the Ministry of Police. I think that, when we taxed it in our amendments, by accepting these amendments, in a comprehensive way, we would round up this whole continent and regulate this matter in a much better way. In fact, we suggest that, in the pursuit of security matters, the powers of the judicial police officers are as follows: to determine the identity of the people entering and leaving the court; this has existed so far, but the fact is that it has not been carried out consistently, properly, is not enough just to look at the ID card and let someone enter the court building, given that we know what was going on in the courts throughout Serbia; that they are searching persons who are entering and leaving the court and their belongings; they prohibit the entry of persons carrying firearms, dangerous tools, or who are suspected of entering dangerous things, except for authorised officials when they are forced to bring in or conduct suspects, accused, or prisoners. This is how we really embraced everything. I think it would be good to hear from you and the data on how long the trials were delayed, how many days were lost because of anonymous reports that someone was, above all, in Belgrade courts, and throughout Serbia, a bomb was placed, how many times were citizens forced to leave the court building, not to finish the job they came to court for. I don't think it's bad to hear that information, too. I believe you have that, but that, Malten, happens every day and one of the ways to prevent this is to accept this amendment, so that this area is better regulated. Then, a judicial police officer retains, until the handover to the police, persons found in court in the execution of a criminal offence, that is, by which the means of coercion was applied, binding. We also had the opportunity to hear various insults at the expense of judges, who only do their jobs, by those present in the O.R. after giving the verdict, different threats to judges. This is inadmissible and let us seriously protect people who do one of the most responsible jobs in this country. We can say a lot about how to dress and get into court. Namely, the people who worked in the judiciary had opportunities to see parties both in slippers and in Bermudas. I think that's inadmissible. What can't be allowed in a game, on the street, in some public facilities, certainly can't be allowed in court and it should, in any case, be prevented. In the government's explanation for which these amendments were rejected, it states that they are not accepted for the reason that the area involved in the judicial guard, the security of the judicial bodies' facilities, as well as for the security of judicial officials and staff in judicial authorities will be regulated by a special law. I ask the question – when will it be regulated? I think it's much simpler and easier to solve this problem by accepting four amendments, than to re-emerge and supplement this law, to waste time again in the principle debate, to re-apply the amendments. Let's work effectively, take this opportunity to really regulate this area so we don't discuss these things again in a month or two. I don't think we have time. Let us bring a little energy and liveliness into this Parliament and react in the right way, when MPs, by amendment technique, have tried to correct a certain bill. In this explanation, you are referring to the Police Act. Believe me, we know very well the provisions of the Police Act, and therefore we used certain provisions, copied them in the amendments that we have proposed. The ministry of justice will also take into account the solutions proposed in the amendments to the MPs. Why waste time, take these solutions that we have already proposed today, accept the amendments that the DSS Parliamentary Group has submitted to this law and finally round that area, so that we will not be able to discuss these things again for a few months. Believe me, we don't have time to waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7909	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7910	For this topic, it is important that there is a fundamental discrepancies between the proposings and the applicants of the amendments, which are amendments to the article. 77, 78, 79, 80, 81. The government believes these jobs should be done by the judicial guard, and DSS representatives think it is the judicial police. Of course, two concepts are clearly profiled from that. During the debate, on Thursday, before the SRS, we expressed the view that it should practically be a court security with the exact powers prescribed. Of course, what about rights and obligations, how to function, must be regulated by law, but all those technical aspects must be prescribed by the Justice Actress. Because justice and prisons are in the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. In these two conflicted attitudes, when the SRS introduces a completely different attitude, another concept, I can hardly talk about differences, finesse, why one variant is better than the other or vice versa, but I can use this time to draw attention to how this area would have to be regulated. Once upon a time, we didn't have it. Usually the courts had one porter sitting down. There was a photocopying machine. When someone comes, he says – the courtroom number and that one, is on that and that floor, left, right, etc. What was done with us, so there's a need for us to have uniform faces, with weapons, in court? When we find the answer to that question, then we'll see what's causing it, because what these two concepts are proposing are looking for a solution, and they're mutually opposing each other, they're actually dealing with the consequences, not the cause. I'm going back to the famous Lutri's law on preventing riots at the games. The law was passed in 2003, so later it changed, everything they did here. They're about to do gymnastics in this O.R. room at the time. We at the SRS told them to calm down the D.B. and there won't be any problems. You won't need any regulation to regulate it. We took an example of England. In England, there is no fence in the stadiums, but whoever crosses, makes a break, God help him, when the law shakes all its might upon him. It could be similar with the court building security. Whoever makes a mess, interferes with the trial, interferes with the course, should be properly punished by a criminal act. But now we've already gotten into something and let's get back to what's normal, which is the time you went on vacation and forgot to lock the door and no one comes into your apartment to steal. Since it's been a long time, and I'm trying to get it back, it's probably a rough road and it's different. However, since we are dealing with this law, the consequences, someone has deliberately turned us off the subject. I tried Thursday, if you'd like to think about it, to throw the subject. What are the possibilities of a man using a legal path and facing a planetary injustice in that use of a legal path? So does this kind of guard, security and police guard justice or injustice? How can a person exercise his rights if the competent state authorities do not show an elementary understanding of this, but find various reasons as an excuse? I'll use one example. A few days ago, Milan Markovic, Minister of State and Local Self-Government, was here. According to his reactions, I saw that he felt very uncomfortable about this mandate situation. Why was he uncomfortable? Because local self-government is working on some crazy syndrome. Someone sold the location before the election, and now the tycoon's after him. Did you take a million and a half? You did. Give me the location. I can't do that, I'm not in power. Gilas is in power. You're done with Gilas. If nothing else, early elections, we have everything to do. Mrs. Malovic, I would recommend you sit down with Mr. Milan Markovic to discuss a legal dilemma. I'm talking about this more because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I'm also linking this to that guard sitting in court so there won't be any unrest. I'm making a relationship so I don't get 3,000 dinars. Let me just let you know one thing. We in the National Assembly very often receive a report from the Administrative Committee, which concludes that the conditions for the end of the term of office of the People's Parliament have been met. The chairman only reads that, not even the full report, but only informs us that we have received these reports, that the Administrative Committee has established that the conditions laid down by law have been met and that it ceases its mandate to the MP. The same thing should be done in local self-government. Mrs. Verica just spoke about some judges who do not know the legal range of the finding of termination of the term of office. You have judges in the county court who say it's a constitutional decision. How can it be a constitutional decision? I guess she's a declarator. It shall be received to the knowledge and determined in the minutes. But you've got district court judges whose relatives are councilmen in the Zemun municipality, they're related to Gilas and someone else. It's these -- we're going to tear down the government, the crutch for the government. Who knows what they're thinking more! I said they'd be witnesses and now I admit they'd be witnesses, but it doesn't matter, about that later. That's what we'll do in second place. I'm getting into this story. What's a judicial guard gonna do? Who's the justice guard supposed to protect? It acts by order of the president of the council or the president of the court, even when they carry out the injustice. This reminds me, this concept you took, of a concept that was in force in The Hague. Please don't laugh, since that's where it's going. Don't be surprised. If the Hague tribunal invites someone to witness the prosecution, so the man does not respond, he says - I am a witness to the defence, it is not the time for that, or, I am sick, it does not matter what the reason, there is the possibility of a case for contempt of the Court, and in this procedure it is proved that they were justified reasons for not showing up. Do you know what the Board of Appeal has taken as an attitude? You're all right, but the warrant has to be respected, even when it's illegal. An illegal warrant becomes legal when it comes to threatening a man and him to seek anger. Of course, I'm using this as a relationship, so I don't get a fine of 3,000 dinars, because the provision applies to the judicial guard. Please, let's see the cause that imposes that the uniform faces must be in front of the court, in court, and to deal with these security matters. What's the cause? Do we have to sign up for a new crime when someone interferes with justice in a courtroom, when someone threatens judges? But, please, what do we do with a judge who's carrying out obvious injustices, injustices? There's this Skoric guy. They're sitting in a district court and they don't know the legal significance of a decision in terms of a finding. It's a clear declaration, a notification, a receipt of knowledge, a simple sentence of determination. Why? One authority shall never be allowed to decide on its members by revote. Mrs. Malovic, look at article 46. Local election law, final stand. The view states that the Assembly of Local Self-Government Units should determine the termination of the mandate in the event of the death of the council. What if they get to vote, so most people don't accept it? Is he alive? A man died. Or even more stupidity, it is said that the local self-government unit assembly determines the termination of the mandate for the reason set out in item 1 of point 2), the disbanding of the local self-government unit assembly. Well, when she fell apart, she no longer exists. These are examples that show that you have judges, these set up, set up. The next item of the agenda will be about the judges. We're fighting re-election again, so you know, but we're asking to get rid of the ignorant, the intentional ignorant, because they don't deserve it, because they're certainly in some kind of business. With who? With Dragan Gilas. If he's going to change Tadic, I don't know. Maybe, with help, we'll tear down the government, crutches for the crisis. I don't know, we've got all day, so we're gonna talk about crutches and we're gonna take down the government, and I'm gonna be a witness to The Hague tribunal, and I'm not gonna be against Vojislav Seselj, so we've got this again -- we're gonna be threatened by Vojislav Seselj. Who can he threaten, a man in prison? It's all on tape. The fact that "political dad" and "political son" are in some unnatural coalition, that's another thing. I told you this story so you'd understand that we have some security service here too, but it's not a guard, it's a security service. Does she, perhaps, protect the illegal state that exists in the National Assembly? How? Explain to me how you will now pass these laws and say – these are the right European solutions, and you yourself know that they will participate in your work and vote on this, whether you raise your hand or not, whether you are blemishing, and those who are not MPs, and you know that they are not MPs, you have full knowledge, you know that all the legal path has been used, and the criminal procedure and the litigation process, and we are doing some negotiations, agreements, to see that we understand that you respect the laws. But, watch out, if the President of the Court doesn't want to obey the law, then we need a judicial guard to cooperate with him. Here, let me explain that to you. Once, in a long time, there was this kickout from social housing and always the police had to assist. There have been cases of cops crying when some family is evicting -- misery, which, you have to evict it, because someone in the community made a decision. A cop sits down and cooperates with that man they're throwing out, because that cop is in an even worse housing situation. Take care, in this rigidity, that someone from the Justice Watch doesn't get dissuaded, so he starts carrying out his justice in court, and he's the only one who's authorized to have a weapon.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7911	Anyone else want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to speak to the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7912	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on the Rules of Procedure, 225th and 226, I'm asking you for information, Mrs. Malovic, if you can now, but I don't think you'll be in a position to deliver it to me, if not, that's what I asked Minister Milan Markovic to do a few days ago, and now for you. Namely, I think it is your obligation to know how the courts in Serbia operate and is currently the most recent case that happens in the Kragujevac District Court, then in Belgrade, which was just mentioned by counterpart Krasic. However, the Kragujevac District Court, led by Miroljub Tomic, whose direct link to an apostate from the Serbian Radical Party, Tomislav Nikolic, does not stop making illegal decisions. On Friday (November 21st), a response came from the District Court to a complaint addressed by Zlatko Radic, a Serbian Radical Party committee, and because such a recommendation was given by the local board of the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, the city's or the Lapovo municipal assembly did not decide on the termination of the mandate of four former Serbian Radical Party council members. I must tell you, Mrs Malovic, that, taught by such experience and by this criminal decision to steal 10 parliamentary mandates from Kragujevac, Mr Radic, on time, submitted a request for the exemption of judges who participated in the kidnapping, namely the theft of 10 mandates from the Kragujevac City Assembly, and that: President of the First Council Radovanka Nikolic, Vesna Cvetkovic and Milunke Cvetkovic and the Second Council – Obren Jezdić, as president, Simonide Miloradović and Aleksandr Blanuce. Before I bring in what I will now, in the end, tell you, Alexander Blanuša, whose exemption, as one of the judges in this group of six, Mr. Zlatko Radic, answers that it is impossible to ask for the exception of some judges in the District Court in general. This, first of all, did not require any general exception, but specifically stated by the judges who are a disgrace to the Serbian judiciary, I read their names again today, and I will certainly read it a few more times, and every day, until the moment I get into a situation, each of us, to defend my rights in the rule of law, and especially what is unimpeached, and that is the will of the citizens. Then don't think, as Mr Krasic told you, we are against re-election, but certainly, for the resolution of those who are disgrace and shame, not to commit a disciplinary violation, as it stands in the law, but, you see, they make scandalous decisions. Then, without a decision to exempt those judges... Here, I'll finish, Mr. Milivojevic, I can see you're in a hurry, but this is really something you should be worried about, you're in a hurry, probably across the street, waiting for you, Boris Tadic, so you can't waste your time. So, to Councilman Zlatko Radić, Mrs Malovic, this Aleksandar Blanuša, on appeal, therefore, resignations, powers and all that we have sent, as a contribution to the appeal, answered, imagine this cynicism... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) Here, I am finishing up, Mrs. Komic, but let the entire public hear and let the MPs hear, he says, "As the authorised face of the Serbian Radical Party, as a councilman of the municipality, you sent it to the District Court and that. Based on the content of the above-mentioned complaint, you see which is insolent, ''it is not possible to reliably determine... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... Have you made a complaint only because of the decision of the Lapovo Municipality Assembly or are you asking that the decision of the Assembly be annulled?' So they don't want to respect the Law on Local Elections, Article 49(2). I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, that I've overstepped my time, and most urgently ask you for information, Mrs. Malovic, about whether you know that such a crime exists and that such decisions, directly against the Constitution and the law, are made in the Kragujeva District Court?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7913	Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Pejcic, submitted to Article 81 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Pejcic, then Natasa Jovanovic and Dragan Todorovic. As a result of the resignation, MP Dragan Todorovic followed MP Aleksandr Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7914	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, on the agenda today is the draft law on the regulation of courts, in particular. That this law is not good and it is not good, says a large number of amendments from the opposition MPs. Among other things, you have accepted 19 amendments, which says that you yourself are wandering about this matter and that the government does not have a precise view of this law. If the government had been of authority and dignity, it would have withdrawn this law, done it and delivered it to the MPs at one of the next sessions to consider it. So, a total of 42 amendments have been submitted, 19 has been accepted, which is exactly what it says – that the government is wandering about adequate legal solutions. When we talk about our courts, it is a mirror of a legal state, a modern, European state, and the fact is that the wish of all of us in the Assembly, as well as the citizens of Serbia, is that we have one authoritative judiciary, an autonomous judiciary, a depoliticized judiciary, that people who work in the judiciary, i.e. Judges, they're not corrupt and they can judge by law. Otherwise, we've had a chance to reform our judiciary at this point, reform all the courts. However, by analysing these laws and also by listening to public opinion, i.e. certain institutions and organisations related to the judiciary, we have seen that these laws are not good and have as their task only the lustration of judges, the abolition of certain municipal courts, the setting up of their political personnel, etc. The DSS MPs spoke about this law at previous sessions, especially chapter seven - court security. To remind citizens of Serbia what the judicial guard was doing in the previous period and what powers it had. In order for someone to be a judicial officer, he had to own at least a fourth degree of school training, psychophysically capable, in the rank of civil servants, tenants. Otherwise, the judicial guard had no right to use force, but only to prevent it from working until the civilian police arrived. They didn't have a uniform, they used a uniform for the prison guards. They didn't have any ID, they only had the right to carry weapons in the building where they were. It's under that old law. The new bill provides for some small reforms. But DSS MPs want to talk about the judicial police, because it is a trend, as many EU countries have just introduced judicial police in their offices, which has proved to be extremely good at doing part of their job. My amendment to Article 81 wants to regulate this matter, for a simple reason, because we believe that by introducing a judicial police, we can send an adequate signal to citizens entering courts – that they are cared for by a service that is, above all, professionally trained for it. From this amendment, you can see that I have also worked on this socio-health care and on the working relations of the judicial police and that, among other things, it is envisaged that the benefits of a work experience are due to working conditions, because the conditions of work are extremely difficult and specific. So in one year's work, we'd have 16 months recorded. Then, in the event of a death or an accident, his family has the right to a free funeral of officials and also the right to one-time assistance at the height of his six-month salary. Since you have not adequately regulated this issue and this matter, we suggest that you adopt this amendment, not only my amendment, but the amendments of all our MPs. We think that, by embedding amendments to this law, it will become a global and European law and will draw closer to the European judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7915	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I think this amendment is extremely important and that you should consider adopting it, because it is very serious that it treats the service that is doing an extremely responsible job and that is why it should be taken into account who is being taken into custody. I would remind you only of the indisputable fact of how important this is, one of the most famous cases, and this is the case of the Novosad Court and the escape of one of the largest DS financialists, Zoran Trifunović Trizon, who entered the Court, walked out of the Court, as well as any other citizen, although charged with a serious crime. Among other things, if you remember, he was taking oil from the NIS, doing it all with all kinds of malfeasances; although he couldn't sell that oil before he paid for it, he sold it, and when the time came to pay, he picked himself up and ran. But they managed to catch him, take him to court. But he walked out of the court, and nothing to anyone. Simple, free citizen. You probably assume he did it because someone let him do it. It is therefore important that people who do this work be at the height of the task ahead of them. What makes it important and, in general, why does the court have a special watch? For the sake of this division to be executed in judicial, executive and legislative power. I think the future Law on the National Assembly should also provide that security in the Assembly is to be provided by a special service, which will only be a security of the Assembly. To be clear, I have nothing against the people doing this job, but I remember, let's just say, in 1995, some people were released here in sweatpants and shoes, who beat the MPs of the SRS. If there was a congregation security detail that was completely independent, it wouldn't have done that. Also, I am sure that independent congregation security would prevent the entry of non-members, who have kidnapped mandates and are entering the Serbian Parliament. I understand the needs of Boris Tadic to have a crutchest to be followed, because the question is seriously raised by how long will he be able to support this government, but then that congregation security, for example, would issue badges on which there would be crutches, and then we would know what kind of MPs they were working on, there would be no dilemma. You must take special care, Madam Minister, of the fact that these people are going to be extremely tempted. As soon as the authorities change and the responsible authorities come, the vast number of current people in power, who rob this country, will have to come under the influence of the law. There's no dilemma. With the money they took, this court security, like, among other things, and prison security, will be on extremely high trials. You know what wages are, what is the economic and social situation in our country, and so you have to make sure that these people are actually able to do the jobs that are ahead of them. Now I will only provide you with information related to the team in public enterprises in Serbia, and not all of them – it is only 28 public enterprises. Now you're going to hear numbers that don't match your ears, but your brain doesn't give a shit how this country gets robbed. You heard a few days ago that some government representatives were saying that we would be saving, even Radovan Jelasic fired cafe cooks to introduce savings to the National Bank of Serbia. He bought the machines, probably because of the commission, because those who sell the machines, you know how the G17 works. Watch out, the 2007 team: JP "Electromontage of Serbia", planned 14.8m, nearly 200,000 euros, and spent 13.2m. Save it. The director's information, how large his team was, has not been shown. JP "Jugoimport", and you all know whose director is sitting there, G 17, DS and in line, from the government, who is now in this coalition, in the country and abroad -- 24,352,793,00 dinars, 300,000 euros. In doing so, the director spent 1,956,581,00 dinars, nearly 20,000 euros. The Institute for textbooks and teaching means, it seems to me that he has recently received a new director, Mićko will have the opportunity to do very well on the subject of the team, because the funds are large, won't have to be very limited, 10 million are planned. Imagine, the Institute for textbooks and curricula – 10 million is a planned team, and the firstborn pays the textbooks, pays everything. That's 13,000 euros. 5,700,000,00 says, are unable to provide us with the data as much as the director spent on the team. Deposit Insurance Agency. Tell me, please, what is the agency doing with the team? I understand, coffees, juices, I really don't understand, you explain what this agency will do with a team. Mr Batic is talking about 130,000 euros. Here they say, 2.5 million were planned, and they spent 1,804,000.00. You remember I told you about the salaries, no matter what we got the data, that those data weren't true, they were falsified, and I told you I knew for sure about two public enterprises. Today you've heard of one thing, and that's at Nicole Tesla Airport and Bojan Kristo, and there's another company I know for sure that forged the report; it's technically that much pay, but how much it takes, it's another thing now. So it's a fake. The official messenger, as far as I can see, is Sloba Gavrilovic. They wanted to get rid of him because his services were unnecessary, even harmful, so they sent him to the director's office, and the team – 6,576,153,00 dinars. The privatisation agency, my people, they're taking a percentage of every sale anyway, you've still given them a team. What do they need a team for? Yeah, they don't separate from their mouths, good observation. Please, 6,273,839,00 dinars, and do you know how much money that is, how much pay, how many squares of apartment, how many kindergartens can be built, what can be done for this money, and you claim to be saving, how will you take care of every dinar! The Agency for Business Registers, they're pummeling money whenever you need to extract some document again, because they don't recognize any, 1,800,00 dinars, as much memory serves me. All the time, some re-registrations, some demands, are constantly setting up that these documents have to be removed. Agency for Business Registers – 2.595,961,00 dinars. Tanjug -- 8 million are planned, 100,000 euros. Madam Minister, look at what the average salary is, 250 euros, so divide it by 250 and see what the salary is. What do they need with them, Mr. Batic? What do they need with the team? At least they beat themselves up by sharing frequencies and hats and fists, with a good commission, there was nothing to be free of. 5,900,000,00 were planned and they saved 4,427,539,00 dinars. The Agency for the Licensing of Accountants. There's a commission here every step of the way. What do they need it for? Ask them a question. What do they need a team for? What do they need a team like this for? 1.154.101.00 dinars. Look, they're keeping an eye on, they say, the right to use a team has only the Agency's director, for the purposes of the Agency. What's the Agency's needs? Post office, JP PTT – planned 55 million and spent 42,106.000.00 dinars; directors were extremely modest, only 504,000,00. Railway Directorate, direct budget user, no special fund, the director spent only 245,839,00 dinars. JP "Serbishum", this is amazing, my people, if this is possible, has been spent 47,839,345,00 dinars; 28 directors make management of businesses and they use means for representation. My people, what do you think? 28 CEOs, 48 million, what are we talking about now? Do you see what this money is? Those barbaric tribes, when they were breaking into someone's lands, left at least something to come up for next year, and you're basically destroying and robbing the unloved. Serbia Railways JP, planned at 0.5%. They don't say what the amount is, so we can figure out what 0.5% is. The director was also modest here, only 428.000,00 dinars, half a million. Jat Airways, he didn't deliver, 17,319.000,00 dinars. Telecommunications company, Telekom Srbija, my people, I really need to get water (the national ambassador drinks water), 73,853,000,00 dinars, au, my people! Serbia's electricity – 22,300,000.00 dinars, Serbia's Construction Directorate, 2,983.000,00 dinars, Serbia's Roads – 16.3 million, small. RTS - 25 million. "Transcraft" has seven million and 400, and it is total – 530 million 729,638 dinars. It's a little something for you, a little something. I see you yellow company reckon there's more. Unfortunately, nothing is an embarrassment to you – well, that is the problem. The problem is you're not ashamed of anything and you're not ashamed of anything, and this is all from hungry mouths, from Serbian citizens. That's the problem this country has to face and has to deal with. That's the only thing that's possible in the new election. You're free of crutches, because when all the data gets to the citizens of Serbia, you'll go where you belong. (President: Time.) Therefore, Madam Minister, now take care of the people who have to take care of these who will come where they belong. Thank you, and I'm so sorry that I've timed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7917	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to convince the Minister, to try to convince him once again, to accept these four DSS amendments to chapter 7 of the draft law on the regulation of courts. We have, indeed, given the complete solution, again, not only the solution that is in the laws of the EU countries, but even the world standard, which confirms the refusal of that first amendment to Article 77. In response, the government rejected the amendment, and later refused the other amendments. It's a complete solution, not just a name. A few colleagues here have said that it is, formally, a name, or a court guard, but it is the police. It's not just about the name, it's about the essence, because it's about more jurisdiction, it's about the rights of these people, about responsibility. There's also talk of how they should be trained. You know, when you have a man who comes dressed in a regular suit, no one knows what he's doing here. Unbalanced face, even, can be a prevention. Cases from a previous period were mentioned here, you know, when it comes to court, it usually comes under some kind of stress. So this is not a situation where we can be relaxed. Unbalanced face is, even, a kind of prevention, and you know it well. So we made suggestions on how to be, or we got from people who work in that service suggestions about this equipment they should have, but they arrived late, as well as some ideas they had for using that equipment. In any case, it's about their rights, even their benefits. Guards. The guards are standing outside the building, everyone knows that. If we want to go in there, the guards won't let it in and out, they're guarding the facility, if we want to look inside, here's General Delic, well, there's a fire department inside. Then I think maybe we should write - the judicial guard and the judicial fire department. I think this is a far better solution. I hope the parliamentary majority understands that. In the very explanation, what's the most illogical? Finally, it is said that the Ministry of Justice will take into account the solutions proposed in the amendments to the MPs in Article. 77 to 81. These are the four amendments, I suppose, given by the DSS MPs. Prior to that, it is said that the security of judicial officials and staff in judicial authorities will be regulated by a special law. We know that it is a practice that, mainly in this law on the regulation of courts and that part is regulated, which is not possible at this time, given the provisions of the Police Act, as well as the internal organisation and authority of police officers. However you take it, we will again be inefficient and talk about the efficient work of Parliament. If these amendments are not adopted, then they will be brought forward, as announced by the Ministry, a special law, where this area will be arranged, and then they will have to amend and supplement the Police Act. They're going to have to change and supplement and this law, because then this whole chapter 7 is going to be excess in the law, because it's all going to be regulated by another law. Then this chapter 7 - the court's security, will be excess. If we accept these four amendments now, all we have to do is make changes and supplement the Police Act, which the Ministry can do, and nothing more. Like this, if we're making a special law, we're gonna have to change two more laws. Suit yourself. We stand at the point that this is a complete solution, which fully regulates it – we are talking about the more efficient work of Parliament, we are talking about less spending of money. This is where you talk about Parliament as a black hole. We say -- here's a solution that's completely pro-European, by the standards that we have everywhere in the world. You say - no, it has to be a special law. All right, bring it in, but we'll work harder and spend more taxpayers' money. This is a solution that is completely acceptable. So, from the day of entry into force, the courts will have a better situation, the better the court will be able to provide, the more opportunities for more effective court work and the more efficient work of judges. Now, we're still going to have some kind of justice guard, and we're going to have still not exactly a pleasant situation in the courtrooms, until one day these laws come to order. I think we'd better accept these amendments, so we can amend the Police Act. After that, everything will be done properly. I urge you once again to accept these four DSS amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7919	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has Ms. Minister Malovic, and so does National MP Donka Banovic. You want a word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Then, first MP Petar Jojic, and then National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7920	The Honorable President-in-Office, Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I fully agree with you that the issue of judicial guard arrangements is one of the, perhaps, most important issues regarding the organisation of the work of the courts themselves. Unfortunately, negative examples in the past, relating to the murder of two judges, one of them was the president of the court, then a number of bomb reports that occurred in courts across Serbia, escapes that also took place in Serbia's courts, rightly put the issue in focus. The Department of Justice has worked hard on this issue. Unfortunately, I have to say that in some ways we were far-sighted, because we were still in the budget, the budget rebalancing for 2007 looking for additional funds to finance the judicial guard and obtaining the particular equipment they needed. Since 2007, there's been a lot of work done on that. First, medical examinations were carried out, for, unfortunately, the judicial guards were not received with adequate medical examinations. A contract with the MUP has been concluded. Unfortunately, I have this opportunity to inform you that by 2007, out of the total number of judicial guards received, 10% of them have psychotic diseases. Now, any one of them has to go through certain medical controls that apply to the members of the MUP as well. Also, some equipment has been provided for court guards, an X-ray door, not to list everything that is meant to be used to control the entry. Why have we not accepted these amendments, and why is the government's explanation the way you got it? The Department of Justice is considering introducing a special service, whether it will be called the judicial police, or it will be a different term, I cannot give this opportunity to plead, but we are certainly thinking that the powers of these future organisational units will be much wider than they are to ensure that they enter the courtroom. The authority will apply, what we are now thinking, to the security of the judges and prosecutors themselves, to the holders of judicial functions and to the judicial staff. We did an analysis of the execution and saw that the execution procedures were quite slow, precisely because of the absence of the assistance of the MUP, of course, and for other reasons. We are considering one of the powers of this future organisational unit being the issue of execution. The second question is bringing in the defendants. If we talk about rationalising costs, and today there have been a lot of words, the Justice Department is thinking about bringing in the defendants, exactly, and that is the jurisdiction of that future organisational unit, because, for now, the courts are paying for it in prison. That's how it's done, it's bureaucracy, it can't change, but it's all a motive for us to sort out the issue of the court guard, or the court police. All objections which have been made and the amendments proposed on this chapter of the Law on the Regulation of Courts will be discussed by the Ministry of Justice and in the course of the following year we will have a regulation that I think will do much better to settle this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7921	The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7922	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, respected Minister Malovic, I would like to thank you for your explanation, and your explanation was about the amendments submitted by DSS MPs to chapter 7, which is the court's security. There are five members in that head, and we have submitted four amendments, so we are predicting a change of four members out of five. It explains that when you draft this new law on court security, you will also consider these amendments to our remarks, which is commendable. But I didn't understand why it couldn't be done now, under this law. If the law itself bears the name 'judgment', and we all agreed that security in court is one of the most important things right now, because of all the problems, it really is the area that needs to be arranged. Again, we at the DSS don't see why this can't be arranged with this law. If later, you and the MUP, decide or think that this is not a comprehensive solution enough, I do not see a disturbance to possibly go to the Assembly with a new bill to be called – the court's security. I specifically called about the amendment of my colleague, Alexander Pejcic, and that's Article 81. To illustrate why Alexander Pejcic submitted this amendment, I will read Article 81, and we will see that this member is quite general and very simplified. Article 81: "The establishment of a working relationship and the rights, obligations, evaluation and liability of a judicial guard shall be subject to regulations governing the working relations of civil servants and deputies, if this law is not otherwise laid down". So, a very important area, which relates to employment and the right of members of the judicial police, from the moment they establish a working relationship, to the need to contribute, but through the law, and that is what we propose to this amendment, to their greater social security. What does the amendment of fellow Pejcic contain? It's the very things you've been saying here that a person who, apart from the general reception conditions, has a special medical capacity can be admitted to the state's service as a police officer. Now you've told us, I really believe that, based on your research, you've come to the conclusion that a medical examination is necessary, which obviously has not worked before. I suppose such people would never have been admitted to the service, so, if it hadn't been for the adoption of that new law, maybe it would be a good idea to accept this amendment. So, in addition to general conditions, someone who applies to become a court guard officer has to meet and meet the conditions of a special medical ability, based on some regulation that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice would make. Then, police officers are placed in special calls, marked with appropriate markings, and during the service wear special clothes, official IDs and badges. Then, to officials, due to the weight and nature of the job, every 12 months spent at the workplace accounting as... (President: four minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... For 16 months, they've been training insurance, and they've also got an underprivileged job. You all have this amendment to your colleague, Alexander Pejcic, so you can see how much he and the DSS have tried to define the position of the court guard officers here precisely. Again, I don't want to overstep time, I don't think there's any problem with you adopting these four amendments and that area, but in this law, you're precisely defining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7923	Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MPs Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted together to Article 82 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7924	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, I would first of all remind you of two amendments adopted by the Government. The first amendment is colleagues from Saša Maksimovica, who reads – the judicial authority belongs to the courts and is independent of the legislative and executive authority. The second amendment was submitted by the LDP, through Kenan Hajdarevic, Slobodan Maras and Judita Popovic, who reads – every other influence on the court and pressure on participants in the process is prohibited. If it is considered that these amendments have been adopted by the government, then wonders why the LDP amendment submitted by counterpart Nebojsa Rangelovic and I has not been adopted. The amendment reads as follows: "In Article 82(2), the word "necessary" is replaced by the word "must." When this Article 82 is read, it will explain why this amendment is consistent and why it improves this Member of the Law, that is, its position 2.It is said – the means for the work of the courts should maintain the independence of the judicial authority and allow for the orderly work of the courts. So we just replaced this word "necessary" with "must." There's a big difference between whether or not something needs to be done, so if it doesn't have to be done, then it's not done, but when something has to be done, it's a whole other story. In this way, we have, in fact, made it possible for the executive to appreciate each time whether there are enough funds to focus on the work of the courts. Why is that a big problem? Because, I think you'll all agree with me, economic security is an essential prerequisite for independent and independent court work. I would remind you of a period of work of the courts, that is, the work of the entire judiciary, in the 1990s, when the position of the judges was indeed on the low branches, when the executive authority was giving funds to the courts as it found appropriate, in accordance with this word "necessary", when the judges, as far as the salary was concerned, were in the rank of officers. The situation has changed in the meantime. So the judges now have relatively good incomes. However, the independence and independence of the work of the courts are not exhausted only in the reception of the judges. There are far more factors that affect the independence and independence of work. I would remind you that this is also the part of the workers, the officers, who serve the work of judges, without which there are no decisions in time, without which there is no accuracy, without which there is no precision required in the work of the judges, and then we have situations to write with a delay of several months, to lose court cases, that the court offices do not do what they do in their job description, that the overtures do not work, because they simply do not have enough workers, that the land book, in fact, is paralysed. As an example, I'd like to quote, say, the Grain County Court. At the time of the former justice ministry, therefore, since April, the Zrenjanin municipality court has lost 40 workers. In fact, several years ago, the Grain County Court received workers for a certain period of time. So these people weren't on permanent duty in the Court and some new measures so-called. Savings, some line-up, well-designed savings, these people are out of a job, and that led to some kind of paralysis of the work of the Municipal Court in Zrenjanin. We have a situation where there is not enough workforce in the offices, that interns work in office instead of doing what they were accepted as trainees, that the Earth Book in Zrenjanin has not opened the Great Hall for days in which the parties can make an insight into land-book deposits. We have a situation to wait in court for hours on the cover of any act, contract, agreement. We have a situation where the cases are not executed, because the office of the executive department is overcrowded, and so does the other offices. So it's an example of an inconsistencies, inconspicuous, inappropriate savings, which is inadmissible. If there is indeed a serious intention for the judiciary, as the third branch of the government, to appear as independent, independent, we should not allow the executive power to have a discretionary assessment of whether and how funds from the budget will be directed towards courts, prosecutors and others. In particular, we're talking about a court-order now. In fact, whoever has power over money has power over who these funds are being directed at. Therefore, in this word, "must", we would avoid any possible, unwanted situation if at one point some of the funds were deprived of the court, with an explanation that there were no funds in the budget. A moment ago, we heard very surprising figures that, right now, talk about how much public spending is in Serbia, and this is irrational public spending, so the judiciary should not, or the courts, suffer the consequences of this irrational public spending. There should be no dilemma between whether the executive authority should or must direct funds towards courts, and in particular I would like to point out that courts are not parasites, courts are made through taxes, which are not so small and these taxes are filled with the budget. For that reason, I believe that it is celery and necessary that this independence that we are talking about is not declarative, but content. I mean the dishes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7925	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Verica Radet, and the People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz. Does anyone else want to take part in the debate on the details of this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7926	I can only pick up where Mrs. Judith left off. Of course, I support the idea, the idea and everything she said, but to realize what she was talking about, it's not enough to replace just one word, to throw out the word "necessary" and put in the word "must." I think the problem is far greater. For several years now, we have been strongly representing the position that if we want our courts to be independent and independent, in order for it to be a condition to work under the Constitution and the law, then there has to be something called the judicial budget, over which neither the government nor anyone to hold hands and determine, on a spoon, how much it will go. I get the impression that some attempts in this direction are made through the High Council of the Judiciary, but I think that in these few provisions, from Articles 82 to 86, it is not sufficiently precise. I must, for the sake of the public, remove a dilemma that may arise, given the response given by the Government on this amendment. Of course, everyone in this country should share the fate of the economic situation and of the social crisis, but you had the opportunity to listen to Mr Todorovic and you saw that those on whom he was presenting the data had no intention of sharing the situation and that they were somehow complicit in the distribution, if you could say, of the burden of this crisis. We still don't know what the global financial crisis is in Serbia, and I hope we get that answer by the end of 2009, because, as far as I can see, you're making a propaganda hit, by system -- we have a karateist -- black belt on the seventh day, we have a caratist -- black belt on the fifth day, and you have me, who only has a belt, and now I have to fight with them. There, that's the story. Todorovic read to you about these cartoonists on the seventh day black belt – hundreds of millions, 50, 60 million for the team, poor people can't eat burgers, and people don't even have bread here. This story about the division of the social crisis, etc. And the economic situation, it doesn't stand, that's what I have to tell you. That story, absolutely, doesn't stand, and no wonder, since you're not ashamed of anything. You can vote from Thessaloniki, from Bodrum, you can steal mandates, which is a problem for you to steal money!? That's the least of the problems. How do I ensure this economic, I can not even say independence, nor independence, but the appropriate distance of the judicial budget in relation to the general state of society? Probably by finding an appropriate percentage of the participation of the judiciary budget in public spending. As public consumption moves, so does that amount, by applying that percentage of participation, with all the risks that it carries in such a way as to determine the total funds. However, I must draw your attention, you have just told us what you will think about on these amendments. I don't think it would be good for you to think, but it would be good if you did something. If you think that your future judicial guard, in a new concept, the judicial police or judicial security, assists in the execution of the court, then you're wrong. For the application of force and security, to avoid any unrest, only the right police are authorized. Now I'm going to tell you how much you don't fit these European standards. Look how it is in The Hague. There is a detention unit in The Hague in Sheveningen and there is a Court, located in Churchill Square. There's a UN guard. There's a UN guard in court. When they're driving a prisoner, it's the Dutch police, not the guards. You have to understand that the court building is a sort of an exterior area, like everyone who works in that area, and you need to secure that space, in order for a normal trial to take place. You finish the job, don't spread it any further, then you'll get another situation, that through a tender, you'll give up security work. When DS tries to be very smart, people get hurt. Apply solutions that already exist and that are acceptable. Also, since I don't want to report for the next amendments, with regard to expenses, so, please, all the costs of the court can be reduced to fees, to court fees, not to have the minister prescribe special costs for the court's activities. I think that's inappropriate. Anything can be found with mathematics, how to use taxis to show up, or on a snowflake, which is not a problem. Let me just draw your attention to one more thing. It's hard for that country where the court clerk fakes it. Just to remind you, it seems to me that you are a member of RIK, well, RIK has filed criminal charges against people who during the previous election campaign certified statements by some persons who support an election list, and later it was found that those persons died. Please, if this is happening in court, then what are we talking about? If the Supreme Court judge decides and then, two days later, he hears that his verdict was removed from the office, that the others have signed and gone further, what are we talking about? About the trip to Europe? Talk about that trip to Europe to your children, etc., on your Marxist circles, but don't lie to us. It doesn't lead to Europe, it doesn't lead anywhere, and we need order, not because of Europe, not because of the Atlantic, but because of normal life in Serbia. If you want to regulate the judiciary, give normal provisions. You were distracting us a little while ago with some information that you were looking at the current watch, so 10% of it showed some mental problems. How many judges show psychological problems? Why don't you take them to the exams? What should we talk about about these judges who make phone judgments? They have mental problems, or are they having material problems? What happened to the bankruptcy mob? A large number of judges are at large now. And there was that "hello, love" at the trial, he picks up his cell phone and he says, "Hello, love, I've got a trial right now, and I don't give a shit what he said." Now that judge should be some authority. Who can protect his authority if he, as an individual, has broken his authority? Why would someone in the middle respect someone because he's supposed to be a judge, and he's showing these tendencies? Where am I? Agde here is me, what did he say? Please, if you want to solve problems, let's solve the problem first, not deal with the consequences. We've been dealing with the consequences for eight years, and we can't get rid of what's causing it. So don't be surprised. I know you're not afraid of anything, but you're not ashamed of anything. That's the problem. Everything can be with you, and stealing the mandate, and voting, and Bodrum, and Thessaloniki, and the team, and this and that, you make it all. This law will not guarantee the independence of the judiciary. Why? Because the means to work will be decided by the government. How is she going to make a decision? The fact that he's going to propose a budget and the fact that the non-critical majority is going to raise their hands, though, is now new electronics, touch the green button and solve the problem, but it's not the problem from the point of view of the cause, and from the point of view, you don't want to solve the problem, but rather the judge to be an addict. From who? From DS headquarters, and the end of the story. Why isn't Petrovic the minister of justice now? Because he's done his job letting the bankruptcy mob loose. The "Corruption Mafia" is only at large thanks to him, because he conditioned it. A good number of copies of the bankruptcy mob has joined some new party, which guarantees that they won't be in jail, that everything will go well. Of course I do, because I have information from the cell where they were lying. They were lying in a cell, and I know what they were saying, and I know that this Kljajevic guy, who he was, the minors, he was practicing at the door, he was shooting at my picture, like, it's my fault he was in jail. It's not my fault. It's the epic songs he wrote. He sent us epic songs, remember? Please, how can you solve this problem? You can only blur it out. Eventually, someone who monitors this transmission, or those who monitor the transmission, knows all that, but probably, you're counting on those who are going to read the newspaper. Or last night's journal. Last night there were stories about some things the Assembly never said, but you have contributed to how to disabling the Assembly and to drive your people through the media. Remember one thing: citizens in Serbia are increasingly watching the Second Channel, watching the National Assembly session, because it's a small valve where you can hear what's going on in Serbia. It's not in the papers, it's not in other TV shows, it's only here, and the Serbian Parliament is the greatest impression, and it's a painful impression of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is not so easy for us to present these dark data and dark predictions that have prevailed over Serbia. We do not do this for pleasure, but to warn the citizens, to understand what the Democratic Party is doing, which is not ashamed of anything, absolutely nothing, there is no shame. You know what DS MPs say -- it doesn't decide in elections what kind of programme it has, but the media, how nice it is, whether it's a 1,500-euro suit or 250-euro suit, whether it's 500-euro shoes or 150-euro shoes. We're talking here and we're asking all the citizens to watch the Second Channel, transfer from the National Assembly, to understand, when the Spirtosan appears on TV, smooth, greasy, and then gather the handles, so, like that, well, a mild smile, etc., lies to you, citizens. It should come natural, as it is, according to its leper, who has spread out, and that goblet should meet the needs and opportunities of the Republic of Serbia, because it is the only way you can understand – full of hungry people do not believe. Remember, citizens of the Republic of Serbia – full of hungry people do not believe. All these beautiful, oiled, groomed, English-speaking basics are doing it to trick you by who knows which way. Then he said here - we won. He did win, but the people didn't win, the people made us poor, he doesn't know where his limit is, we don't know anything, they're all confused. I know you're irritated by my debate, but I'm just saying that the people will see how it hits you, how you say everything is nice, cuddly, fine. Go to the people, and say that it is nicked and fine, you of the DS; do not speak to them through newspapers and television, go to court, and explain to the judges how better things will be when this law is passed. It won't be a better situation, Your Honor, but it's supposed to scare you with this law. It'll all depend on the DS. It's a message from this bill. That's why we won't support this. So I say to Mrs. Judith, the amendment, in terms of the reasons why it is proposed, is justified, but "need" and "must" is not an amendment that will force DS to respect an independent and independent judiciary. He won't. Well, they boast in the halls, what you will do in court is our judgments. That's what Serbian citizens need to know. There's nothing to be ashamed of, DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7927	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, to correct my distinguished colleague Krasic, he meant DS, not DSS. I've come forward because of Mrs. Secretary's explanation of these four DSS amendments. I support the amendment of the distinguished colleague, but now we're just clear that you don't really know what the final solution is yet, that you're thinking about it now and you want, we don't dispute that you want, that this whole area of security in courts is regulated in a good way, but you've already said some things here that shouldn't slow down at all, or that it's impossible for these four amendments to be adopted, if they're already good. They're giving a solution until you find a final solution, better than it is now. It is definitely that these four amendments offer a better solution than they are now. I guess it's better, until you pass the new bill, to fix the situation in that area. On the other hand, that law won't be able to contain some of the things you said here, say, execution. Well, you can't go to the execution with the court police, it's not working anywhere. I'll give you an example from practice. I have two best friends, I can't separate them. One of them worked as a bailiff. He went to a village near Smederev, had to execute a court ruling. The man bought a cow from another man, and this man claimed to have fooled him, that it wasn't the cow they had agreed on. The court shall judge in his favor, and now he shall give this cow back, and this cow shall give him the money; he shall not open the gate. That's where you come in, that's where the axes come out, the guns come out. What, black, court police, there's got to be an intervention unit. You can't make an intervention unit within the court police force. You won't be able to come to that solution, regardless of good intentions. So the court police can't do that. We watch all these films, so we see how dressed in uniforms are judicial officers in many countries, in the United States, in EU countries, which they have. They can't bring you in. How can they bring him in? It's only if we sort of regulate it now, so that they go to bring it in, but that's pointless, that's what regular police do, there's no need. What we said here is one solution. Find a new bill of law even better than this we've given through these four amendments, we'll back you up if you find it, but don't waste any time. So, anyway, it has to be done, when this is adopted, if the amendments and additions to the Police Act are passed, you won't be able to build a judicial police force to execute a judicial execution, assistance in the execution of a judicial... Well, that's impossible. It's not that simple. I don't know how much court practice you have, but I'm from the courthouse. My father retired as judge of the county court. I know what I'm talking about. Believe me, it's impossible, here, I gave this example, it's impossible without an intervention police unit to execute a solution. How are you going to make an intervention unit with the court police, then in every city you've predicted? Well, that's pointless. We've got an intervention unit in the police department. Why should two intervention units be made, costs rise again?- I'm sorry. I think you should think about it one more time, accept these four amendments, and when you find, as you say, a comprehensive, complete solution, it's not controversial, do the law, suggest, we'll make changes and supplements, we'll change the Law on Court Order and we'll have a comprehensive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7929	Anyone else want a word? (No) People's MPs Judita Popovic and Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic jointly submitted the amendment to Article 86. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7930	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has consistently submitted an amendment to this law on the regulation of courts, and this Article 86. To understand what this is about, I'd like you to listen to what this member says. He says, "Detailed terms, height and method of compensation for the amount paid by the parties and other participants in the procedure for the settlement of costs in court proceedings is prescribed by the minister responsible for the judiciary." So, the justice and management minister is the executive authority. As in the amendment to Article 82, it is also noted that the high role of the executive government is in the way of funding the courts, and in this case we see this great role of the executive government. As we started with the law, as we began with a special emphasis on the desire for independence and independence of courts, a little bit, we reach the end of the provisions of the law and the role of executive authority is increasingly felt. A little bit of the arrogance of the authorities, as much as they speak about the equality of the three branches of government, is still a little higher in the executive one, and the minister of justice is in the executive authority, or government. I had recently forgotten to read you the reasons for the amendment, which was rejected, to Article 82(2). The law on the regulation of courts, where, in particular, the executive power is explicitly and clearly expressed as to why it can be made available by those means in favour of courts. So, on the previous amendment, the government explained: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons why accepting the amendment's solution would mean a commitment to the Republic of Serbia's budget, regardless of the budget inflow. Given the above, the solution in the Bill's proposal is more comprehensive.' So, again, he's only talking about the hidden need and the desire of the executive to have these resources at his own discretion, often finding an explanation that there's not enough funds in the budget to deny the funds to the courts. This only complements our objection to Article 86, presented by this amendment, because here the executive power again takes its right, through its minister, to determine the way, the conditions, the height of that court fee. So one pen decides whether to respect this human right, the right to a fair trial. People turn to courts, not pro forms, or for the beauty of the courts, but to achieve some justice. People are eager for justice. However, if this fee is too high - priced, you are already making it impossible for people to get to that justice at the first step. Then we can talk as much as we want about that there should be a fair trial, that we need to reform the judiciary, that we bring very good, reforming laws. There's no result, because a man can't even get into a situation that, eventually, he feels that justice on his skin, to experience a fair trial. Our amendment is very clear about that. We leave the Minister's ability to determine the terms and conditions of the fee. However, we are improving the member, because we are asking that the amount and method of compensation, as set out in Article 1, should not compromise the right to access the court. This is what is fundamental to the European conventions, that people, that Serbian citizens have the right to approach the court. But if this right is contained only in form works in the law, and it is not followed by the real possibility of actually using that right, it cannot be used, especially if the costs are so great that the average citizen, with an average salary of 20 to 30,000 dinars and an even smaller pension, cannot approach and seek that justice before the court. Therefore, if it is a socially responsible government, and I suppose it is, since it is a coalition of DS, SPS and others that have otherwise highlighted it as a special quality, then they should also take account of this particular need for a fair trial. A fair trial is, again, possible only if a man is able to express his right in a court of law and asks the court to make a decision on him. Taking into account the government's argument on why this amendment does not adopt - because the relevant procedural laws are regulated release from paying the costs of the court procedure, then you will understand why I was talking about some kind of arrogance of the government. We know that there are procedural laws that regulate in which cases participants in the procedure may be exempt from paying certain court fees. We know it doesn't usually apply in court. Is it because the presidents of the courts have a certain concern for the competent ministry, from the competent ministry, because, I remind you, the presidents of the courts, as well as the courts, directly depend on the Executive Authority's decision, will they also receive how much funds from the budget or for some other reason?- I'm sorry. People are obliged to pay full compensation. The court fees are big. Rarely, when the courts, or state, or executive authority, take on the burden of the fair trial that we are talking about. They are citizens who often pay these fees at the height of a refrigerator, freezers, washing machines and the like, because it is not small amounts. These are respectable amounts, so it would be good to think about how to make a reservation, how to ensure that, regardless of who is the competent minister of justice and administration, there are clear and concrete ways, concrete criteria to determine how high and compensation and the conditions of its payment will be determined. You'll allow it, it's very embarrassing if the state is charging those benefits from a citizen who asked for a fair trial by force.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7931	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7932	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in relation to the amendment proposed by a colleague and authorised representative, in front of their parliamentary group, the SRS considers that it must be strictly taken care of to allow citizens under normal and favourable conditions to exercise their rights before the competent courts. In practice, and in the good part of my knowledge, I must say that court fees are huge and should be reduced, that judicial fees should serve the judiciary to improve the material position of the judiciary. In earlier years, I have advocated that court fees go to the court budget and that judicial fees are in the hands of the judiciary. However, what is problematic in this bill is that the Constitution is being violated, the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure are being violated, especially in the light of the provisions of Article 80, as Article 78. You see, in the bill, Article 78 - jurisdiction of the judicial guard. This authority doesn't even have the police. Why isn't there? I'll explain now. The judicial guard is authorized to determine the identity and reasons of the person's arrival in the judicial body building. Under this provision, no one is allowed into court until it is legitimated and searched. Nobody. The definition of norm is so – if necessary, search the face and things, bans. It's the opposite of Article 32 again. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it is contrary to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. "The justice guard is authorized to use physical force and rubber bat, and firearms – unless otherwise he can protect human life or refuse an attack on a judicial organ building." There is one provision, one authority, here to protect itself from the attackers. As the judge is at risk, so is the guard. So, to refuse a simultaneous illegal, unhindered attack of itself or others. When you give this much authority to judges, prosecutors, deputies, their families, then you have to protect the guards themselves. There's a lack of this provision. However, what is very problematic is that the provisions of this article are contrary to the provisions of Article 79. The Code of Criminal Procedure. It's that criminal code we wrote in 2000. It is a provision that regulates and empowers members of the Internal Affairs Authority. Article 79, I must make a comparison and interpret the norm, as stated in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and in particular as set out in the Bill of Law. You see, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is more precise, normised and given authority. Internal affairs authorities, among other things, have the right to search apartments and faces. Let's see how the guard looks at the woman. Let's see. Please, a woman who is suspected of being a suicide, who is dangerous by means of war, bombs and weapons, the guard says to her, "Get off." Aman, man, what am I supposed to take off, leave it alone, it's not in the law. However, when we wrote the Code of Criminal Procedure, this is how we handled this standard. The search of the apartment and faces is attended by two adult citizens as witnesses. A woman's face can only be searched by a woman's face, and only female faces will be taken for witnesses. Is there any logic here? There is. Is there a protection of dignity here? There is. Furthermore, witnesses will be warned before the start of the search that they are keeping an eye on the search course, and that they have the right to place their objections before the signing of the search logs, if they consider that the minutes contained are not correct. What's next? The search of an apartment or a person, therefore, we are now talking about a search of a person in a court, should be carried out with caution, with respect for the dignity of a person and the rights arising from the Constitution. Any search of the apartment and face will be made up of minutes. Will the court guard provide two male witnesses, two female witnesses, will the court guard make a record and will all those persons sign it? I'm saying this for the next reason. This norm is undefined, too broadly formalized, the disposition of the norm is absolutely unacceptable. Why? There will often be an abuse of authority to be given to the court guard. This is because only the first sentence of this attitude, which gives authority to search the face, says that it can search every face, both when it has to and when it doesn't have to. There's a problem. I find these standards and these powers unacceptable. I believe that the court's security should be governed by a special law. But in order to have adequate security in the courts, we have to have educated men who will perform the post of guard. The minister noted earlier that he was considering proposing that this court guard should be in the role of the court police. In the countries of Western Europe, England and America, there are judicial police, but in order to avoid interference and illogicality, the judicial police are police who do certain tasks in the investigation, and the person in the judicial police must be professional, with a legal exam and ten years of working experience. So, this is the court police leading the investigation, and this is supposed to be a court security detail, and in order for someone to be put on duty as a court guard, they have to go to school, they have to finish school, and they need to know they're using firearms, they know they're using a rubber bat or physical strength. Secondly, if he uses a physical strength or a rubber bat, he is required to write a report on use, and the President of the Court, or a larger court will assess whether the physical strength, rubber or firearms are used justifiably or unwarrantedly. So, in practice, there will be a number of abuses here, and I am in favour of that this provision cannot be contrary to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I explained we have to have security. But what's the problem here? Serbia is going through democracy in times of crisis. I know, please, back decades ago, we haven't had any problems in the judiciary of this species. As the time of crisis arises, we in the judiciary have huge problems from the aspect of the physical integrity of the judiciary employees; it's from the October Revolution. You're wondering why you've had a number of cases where using firearms are endangered by judicial functions. Why? You had a case in Panchev, when a citizen brought a cashier to the courtroom, dropped a bomb, because it made him sick with years of experience, and he couldn't take it anymore. He used "cough"; he wounded seven or eight people, among other things, and Judge Xeni, who suffered severe physical injuries and barely fought for her life, and there were three other citizens who were seriously injured -- the case in Odjak. The question is, what's missing about a judicial organization? There is no synchronisation between the ministry, as one of the authorities for the judiciary and the government's portfolio, and competent lower courts. So we're in a crisis time, and Serbia is in a crisis time, on any basis, we're in a crisis time. Here, since 1945, until seven or eight years ago, we haven't had this kind of situation in the judiciary. I note, if you want court security, gentlemen, then you must have a school, to pass personnel through that school, if necessary, to recruit from members of the internal affairs authorities who have passed certain courses and certain schools; a secondary school of internal affairs would give the possibility to ensure that the courts are executed in an adequate manner. I'll go back to court fees. Madam Minister, I'm asking you for a notice. Mr. Todorovic raised the question – 500 and some million went to the team, 420 tractors of the middle category; for this they were able to buy gifts to poor farmers, to plow this good Serbian country and to produce both for themselves, for the state and for export. Dragan Todorovic asked the question last year, how can the director of a simple, business bank in Pančev, Mrs. Munic, receive a salary of 550,000 dinars? What country do we live in? The Prime Minister, or President of the Republic, is no more than 150,000. Is that someone from G17 by any chance? Gentlemen, let's face it, we can't have goats and money. I repeat, we didn't get the exact answer to the question of what salary the director of the flock, the director of the airport had last year. Far bigger. Madam Minister, you are poor compared to these rich men and mobsters, don't be offended, as Mrs. Radeta said. I don't mean to offend you, but I have to ask a question, "Where does this country come from?" Don't let that happen anymore. You're a representative of the government. Influence some things to be regulated in a better way. (President: 15.30 minutes. People's MP, time for your MP's group has been used. ) As far as court taxis are concerned, they are very high. I believe that court fees should go to the budget to improve the position of employees, who have between 12 and 15 thousand dinars, such as cleaning women in Pancheva have 12 thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7933	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) On Article 88, the amendment was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. To the title above Article 89, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal On Article 89, the amendments were submitted by MPs Milan Knezevic and Dragan Colic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic, so the MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group "Forward, Serbia", of the Serbian Progressive Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 89, which I ask that, after Article 1, a position 2 be added as it is necessary to establish the continuity of the current and future courts in jurisdiction, in an organisational sense and so on. The draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors provides for the establishment of criminal, basic, higher, commercial and appeals courts to be set up by Article 1(1). On the other hand, Article 89. Proposal for a law on the regulation of courts, the start of the work of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Court of Appeal, the Administrative Court and the High Court of Justice. This provision provides for the Court's work to begin on 1 January 2010. In view of the fact that the proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors provides for the establishment of not only the courts referred to in Article 89. Proposals for a law on the regulation of courts, but also infringements, basic, higher business and appeals courts, it is necessary to be in Article 89. The draft law on the regulation of courts adds Article 2, which provides that the Criminal Court, the Court of First Instance, the Supreme Court of Appeal and the Senior Court of Commerce begin their work on 1 January 2010. This will establish the continuity of the current and future courts in jurisdiction and organisational terms, because, without this provision, there is a legal gap and there is a misunderstanding regarding the continued work of the current courts, municipal, district and commercial, as provided for in Article 1(1) of the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. The need to introduce the proposed position also points to the fact that the transitional and final provisions of the draft law on the regulation of courts, namely in the provisions of Articles 87 and 88, provide for the continuation of the work of existing courts and existing authorities for violations, and the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Higher Commercial Court, which are educated under earlier laws, as an asset for violations and municipal bodies for violations, are set up by the Law on Infringements. Without Article 89, point 2. The draft law on the regulation of courts, existing municipal, district and commercial courts remain in the legal vacuum, because they do not know what their status is, whether they stop working on 1 January 2010, or continue working without concrete legal provisions that would refer to the continuation of their work. This would also violate the provision of Articles 142, 1 and 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the judicial authority is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the courts are independent and independent in their work and judge based on the Constitution, laws and other general acts, when provided for by law and general rules of international law and approved international agreements. It also states on the need to introduce the proposed position on the basis of Article 194(1), (2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the legal order of the Republic of Serbia is unique and all laws and other general acts adopted in the Republic of Serbia must be in agreement with the Constitution as the highest legal act of the Republic of Serbia. In the light of the above provisions of the highest legal act, it is necessary to highlight the indeterminate nature of the provisions of Article 56. The draft law on the regulation of courts, under which the court may have a court secretary appointed by the President of the Court, who assists in the work of the President of the Court, in the judicial administration, and is independent in the affairs entrusted to him by the President of the Court's decision, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Namely, the current law on the regulation of courts, in the provisions of Article 53(4), stipulates that the Registrar of the Court, from the ranks of the judicial assistants, is appointed by the President of the Court, and the proposed law does not specify such a provision. The only basis on which it could be concluded that a judge's assistant is still being deployed for the secretary of the court, is the interpretation of the provisions of Article 49(3). The draft law on the regulation of courts, under which the Secretary of the Supreme Cassation Court can only be one who meets the requirements of the Court of Appeals. In order to remove this ambiguity, I believe that a clear determination should be maintained so far that, according to the President of the Court's decision, the court's secretary is deployed from the order of the judicial assistants, particularly in the light of the scope and nature of the affairs of the judicial administration, as well as the need to have the expertise necessary to carry out those tasks. In order to respect the above-mentioned constitutional provisions, it is necessary to mention that the establishment of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Court of Appeal, the Administrative Court and the High Court of Justice and the beginning of their work with effect on 1 January 2010, is illogical, as so far as the legislation, which has already been provided for, in the context of the courts of general jurisdiction, appeals courts, and in the context of special courts, and the administrative court, the beginning of the work of these courts, has been delayed seven years, due to the lack of adequate space for their work, as well as judicial staff, judicial staff and accompanying technical resources. Without all this, the work of the courts is not possible, and it is unclear how it can be expected that, at the moment of the general economic crisis, they will be able to implement themselves to provide the missing space, as well as to address human and technical issues. The complexity of resolving this issue stems from the proposed existing network of courts, as much as is foreseen for some of the municipal courts to become judicial units of the basic courts, without having previously established what is the basis for the establishment of individual courts for judicial units, as is the case with the Municipal Court of the Great Plan and the Municipal Court in Smederjevska Palanca. Starting from these circumstances, it cannot be accepted as a realistic deadline of one year to establish spatial, human and technical conditions for the start of the work of these courts. In this respect, there is a need to mention the illogical nature of the time limits set for selecting the holders of judicial functions, both the mentioned courts and the basic, the higher, the business, the criminal courts and the Supreme Casualty Court, as the number relating to more than 2,000 judicial holders and the cases of the Supreme Judicial Council should be carried out by 11 members. As part of the above, the question of the purpose of implementing the general choice of judicial function holders is raised, where the previous and current constitution provides for the continuity of the judicial function. If the general election were to be held, legal uncertainty would also be introduced with regard to such elected judicial holders, as it could be reasonably expected that a change of government would always lead to a new general choice. The removal of the dissatisfaction of citizens with the work of the courts as the reason the ministry of justice states cannot be the only basic reason why a general election would be held, as it is unclear what indicators are taken as relevant for the existence of dissatisfaction of citizens. If the number of complaints lodged is the basis, the Court's regulation and its rules of procedure shall only provide for the right to appeal by the party and other participants in the proceedings, without any closer determination of the time limit within which the complaint may be lodged. It is illogical to allow the right of appeal in a situation where the procedure has been legally terminated and the decision has been subject to the examination both on a regular and on an emergency legal basis. This calls into question the relevance of judicial decisions, not only of the first degree, but of the decisions of the senior courts. In addition, courts are unnecessarily burdened, since by handling such complaints, in fact, they repeat the reasons for making court decisions, even though the complainants are already familiar with the arguments already made by the court and delivered. The same applicants often appear in the capacity of the complainants, although they have already been informed of the allegations made in the complaint, as well as that the reasons for the complaint are repeatedly repeated earlier, by submitting new complaints. For this reason, it cannot be considered that the dissatisfaction of citizens with the work of the courts is a real and acceptable reason, because the existence and operation of courts requires not only the relation of citizens – the court, but also vice versa, and this is undoubtedly referred to by the basis of the initiation of judicial proceedings, and that is how judicial protection in order to achieve certain civil and legal relations, as well as the repression of acts that harm or threaten the values protected by criminal law. If it is estimated that the work of courts should be updated and brought into line with European standards, then it was necessary to first create spatial, human and technical opportunities, not just a legal framework, which, as previously already done, has been adapted to general opportunities by constantly delaying the work of some of those courts. Accordingly, the question can be asked, is such behaviour in the interests of citizens, if this interest is prevailing at this time? You guys from the SRS have been banging nice, you're banging nice. Keep banging. The reality for you is cruel. Here's an example. In the local elections in Vrnjačka Banja, in four polling stations, you had 12 controllers, two candidates and you received six votes. You're a very nice knocker. Keep banging, and the citizens recognize it. (All the time the speech of MP Dragan Colic, the SRS MPs were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7935	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7936	Mrs. Komic, you can see that the next time you change this rules of procedure, you must also introduce a special category – the amendment with a slam. I would ask the MPs of the SRS not to get angry, but I must commend the government. If Batic lets his intern go, I'll explain why I praise the government. Serbian citizens should hear that the government refused the amendment by banging, because it was pounding. He says, "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the draft law on the regulation of courts determines the beginning of work only for the courts of the Republic, since they are established by that law. "That's what I'm going to criticize you for. "The beginning of the work of the other courts was precisely determined by the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, which regulates the establishment of these courts. "The third sentence: "Besides this, the amendment (with banging) is legally technically inadequate for acceptance, for there is no Supreme Court of Appeal listed in the amendment. "Now, please, someone comes to explain the amendment by banging and is angry that it is not accepted, and he suggested a court that does not exist. So now you realize what kind of crutches you're going to get, because the crutches are going to be there to support the DS. You see, those who offer you crutches, they're able to invent something, a court, there, you see. This court doesn't exist. That's the amendment with the thumping. Heavy banging. Can you understand how difficult it is for me to praise the government? It's really hard for me to praise the government, but here, I had to commend you, to commend you for your third sentence. I'll criticize you for your first sentence. Why? Now let me explain. You got caught up in something, so you wrote in article 13 - the other courts of the Republic. You made one big mistake. All courts are of republican importance, as the entire judiciary is a republican state body under the Constitution. If you've treated this against jurisdiction and tied it to a territory, I must tell you, as far as local jurisdiction is concerned, that's the most comparative question in any procedure. Why did you need to raise the courts to some republican rank without saying, "These others?" What's the name of their rank? How? County, no more, municipally, no more. When you share something and try to divide it, when you have to say it – white, there has to be black, if you say it – this is plus, there has to be something that is minus. As soon as you point out there's just something and what about the other one. Is it there or isn't it? What rank are the basic, higher and appeals courts, according to you? You didn't say that. Why did you need to say – the courts of the republican rank? Sufficient provision, if the criterion is jurisdiction, shall be provisions on the jurisdiction of the courts. That's quite enough. Some courts are established for trial in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, and some courts have established a place of jurisdiction under another criterion. Of course, you've provoked this kind of thinking and the amendment with the thumping. Here, you see, you're the one who got a man to make up a court. You, in the third sentence, have noticed – such a judgment, brother, does not exist, as you force us to adopt your amendment. It doesn't exist. Do you know why that is, because of the absence of identity and authority? As soon as someone who was a radical becomes very freeman and comes out of some natural discipline characteristic of every political party, as a free radical, a progressive, later inevitably there are Democrats without identity, and that is the problem of identity. It's, like, everybody's writing, so let me write something. Two men wrote something that's not in the law anywhere. So, for the third sentence, which is the only one that is right in this opinion of yours, it's an honor to you. But this second thing you've done, you've unnecessarily divided into rankings. You've just defined one rank, and secondly, we don't know what there is. That's the problem with this member. Another important thing – do you think your concept of law would be so maimed if you didn't have this member? No, you wouldn't. The last member of this law has defined since this law enters into force. As soon as this law comes into force, it means that this organization is in force, but that's another thing. I would now draw public attention and judges to one thing that is much more painful for us. Let me remind you of the following. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was passed on 10 November 2006 – two years passed. Look, it's been two years. Articles 5 and 6 that I do not order further members, are very precise and aim to give order to agree and adopt regulations and the Constitutional Law covers only those rules which define state authorities, do not go beyond that. Why? Because constitutional law needs to complete the state structure, the schedule of state authorities, the hierarchy in relation to the new constitution. The courts here are indistinguishable as a special branch of government. You see, at the end of 2008, we're laying down regulations that we had to bring in at the end of 2007, so let's do it by May 2007. You are now extending it and going to that general provision that all this must be completed by 31.12.2008, and this law is now going according to an emergency procedure – it will begin to apply, practically, on 1 January 2010. So everything we have - the judiciary, the courts, the prosecution, for everything is a turning point on January 1st 2010. What do I mean? You've used two years to make regulations, two more to bring the organisation of state authorities into line with new regulations, that's four years. So, for four years, we have a condition that can't be described differently but as applying regulations and what was in force in 1991. Right? And now the courts are on the basis of the 1991 Court Act, regardless of how you, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, changed these rules on courts, prosecutors, etc. The jurisdiction is defined according to the 1991 regulations. Since 1991, by the end of 2006, come on, born to accept the situation, but that's not enough for you. You're extending it for another four years, and the Kobajagi -- it's all European, it's all according to new criteria, it's all according to new standards. I'm telling you this because this is the last amendment to this bill. That's what I'm telling you because this won't even come back to life on January 1, 2010. Just to remind you that we also said this in 2002, and 2003, and 2004, and 2005, when they were passed, also, European laws on justice. We said, "It will not come to life." We said, "The only part of the election and discharge of judges and prosecutors will be brought to life, and that part was valid." You still need that part now. You don't keep until the true functioning of the courts. You don't care about justice or justice at all. You know, there's something that's someone's right, so there's something that's real and something that's real. So what's prescribed by the Constitution, that's what's guaranteed, and what a citizen can accomplish at the administration and the court -- it's not the right, it's under that right. Now, you need judges under that right to guarantee only for certain persons – an independent and called independent judiciary. So we're not going to work on the system here -- we're going to take the subject, we're going to pass the law, we're going to regulate that area, we're going to move on. No, but it always changes, there's always something inoculating, and we don't know if all the possibilities of the existing law have been used. Look, because the judges won't judge and confiscate property benefits, we're passing a special law on seizing property benefits. It's something amazing. So, the judges won't judge, so we're passing a new law and we're regulating that area, so we say -- that's a European path, you know, liquid, we're going to Europe, etc. I've got two more minutes to use for the public. Do you know how the Democratic Party represents Serbia abroad? Good afternoon, we're from the Democratic Party of Serbia, say what we should do. Not the Democratic Party of Serbia, but these Democratic "yellow company" that I am not mistaken. They say this - we are from the Democratic Party, say what we should do. There's no fight for his interests. Those from Europe, you know, say, "If you want to push yourself, drive away, what do we care, we'll commend you." Do you remember the first time that Djelic came in that first term, and he said, “We will negotiate with them, and we will tell them, that is what we have fulfilled.” They say, "Well, if you have fulfilled it, and the real one says, "Peace to something like, and I say to him, we have fulfilled this too; lest he should ask us, we tell him in advance that we have done another job." Why? To sit in the chair. That's all. The entire state policy of the Democratic Party is about sitting in a chair. It's all European what they say. Everything is democratic that fits their interests. If someone else is sitting in power, it's not democratic right now. Everything they do, it's European -- that's what Europe requires of them, and the poor don't know. There's no Natasha, she's gone. She took us to France, and she was head of the delegation. In France, both Parliament and the Senate have a special commission that examines what is being brought into the European Parliament. Why are they questioning? They have two reasons. The first reason is that elections for the European Parliament are independent of elections for their assembly. Then they say -- that structure that is in the assembly is not in the European Parliament, there are others coming. Why? The French are voting for European ethics to harass Brussels and Strasbourg there. They say there are laws that are not acceptable to them in France. They have a special commission that reads and says - this fits France, this doesn't fit, we won't apply. The same thing Ireland does, the same thing all countries do. But when these Democrats come to Serbia, they tell us about an Irish miracle. He's gone, Obradovic. We were both baptized with our left and right hand when we were in Ireland. We say, "You've done a miracle." That man looks at us, says, "Who told you?" Well, Mladjan Dinkic. Tell him he's a fool, he says. We haven't had bread in 30 years here. He says, "We have the first fluid where we've had a little bit of life now that we've given television broadcasts from the congregation and the Senate." It's been in our possession for 20 years, and they've only been able to do it this year. I don't want to go any further. Here everything is presented to the Europeans and everything that is European, it's sweet, they can eat it, but why give their taste to us? Why? So, dear viewers, follow the RTS, Second Channel, National Assembly session, because that's the only place you can hear what's going on in the Republic of Serbia. You cut the expenses for the paper, you don't let anyone lie to you with beautiful pictures, beautiful models, pink-colored ties, the way it's held, you know how these new men dress up for six showers a day to take a larger number of votes. All these pirates are trying to trick you, steal you, humiliate you, question your dignity. All of you following the transmissions, you're thinking normally. The problem of abnormal thinking is here at the yellow company.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7937	Anyone else want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 93rd Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The title above Articles 94 and 94 of the amendment was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Minister Snezana Malovic, want a word? (No) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular, and the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE COURT OF COURT (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the draft of the law by the MPs: Vladan Batić, Milan Avramović, Milorad Buha, Vladan Jeremić, Radiša Ilic, Vitomir Plužarević, Vlada Milojković, Milorad Krstinović, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Rade, Nikola Savić, Momir Munjic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Boris Aleksić, Dejan Mirović, Petar Jojić, Aleksandar Martinović, Filip Stojanović, Milan Vjeljinović, Dušanka Plecić, Momir Marković, Marina Ragus, Marina Ruđan Mijalić, Zoran Krasić, Petar Jojić, Nenad Konstantinović, Ratković, Ratko Ratković, Mirko Mučinski, Mirko Mučević and Mirko Čiljič, Janko Čiljičić, Živić. In writing, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic, to Article 79(2) and Nenad Konstantinovic, to Article 100. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on judges, in which I asked to, after saying "International Contracts", add the words "Constitution of Consents", and then goes – the general rules of international law and by their conscience. For the sake of the public and the citizens, I have asked that the basic provisions of the Constitution, as referred to in Article, be respected. 142, 145, 194. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, etc. What's very interesting is the government's argument not to accept this amendment, because it's not legally possible for a judge to apply international contracts that are not in agreement with the Constitution, since it's confirmed contracts, therefore, by contracts confirmed by the National Assembly. The National Assembly could not, precisely because of these members of the Constitution that I have stated, confirm any international treaty that is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I will remind me of Article 142, which says that courts are independent and independent in their work and judges based on the Constitution, the law and other general acts, when provided for by law, the general rules of international law and approved international contracts. This Article 1 shall be copied from Article 142. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but it is not prescribed this preamble – when provided for by law. Here, Article 1 leaves the possibility that things that are not provided for by law, or were not ratified in the Republic Parliament, are an integral part of something that judges will lead to and hence make their decision, and is in line with the Constitution of Serbia. It is clear that some judicial provisions cannot arise beyond the framework of the Constitution. It's also said in Article 145. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "The judgments are based on the Constitution, the law, the approved international treaty and the regulation adopted under the law." Here the first member lost the term "law", based on the law, which opens up an opportunity that I have already stated at the very beginning of my presentation. The second thing I'd like to say is that in Article 194 is Article 2. Serbia's constitution states that the Constitution is the highest legal act of the Republic of Serbia, and the position of the 3rd member – that international agreements and generalised rules of international law are part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Here, in the first term, we don't have that. Confirmed international contracts, for all of this, must not be contrary to the Constitution. I will also read Article 194, which defines this more precisely: 'The Constitution is the highest legal act of the Republic of Serbia. All laws and other general acts adopted in the Republic of Serbia must be in agreement with the Constitution. Confirmed international agreements and widely accepted rules of international law are part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Confirmed international contracts must not be contrary to the Constitution.' I do not understand the refusal of this amendment, if the Constitution is to this extent precise and if in this Article one you have a precisely defined intention, mine, to which I wanted outside the framework of the Constitution the Judges cannot make any decision, or cannot behave differently. I'd like to hear later, at the end of the session, and an oral explanation on the matter. These provisions of the Constitution clearly provide that all legal acts, which are an integral part of the legal order, must be in accordance with the Constitution. Only the said provision is not said that the accepted rules of international law must be in accordance with the Constitution, that is, my criticism, because such a provision would be pointless, since it cannot determine whether the rules of the other State will be accepted as general, or whether it will be in agreement with our Constitution or not. In the case of such a situation, since, for some reason, there was no place for such a definition of the Constitution, the words "Constitution of Consents" should be inserted in Article 1. This would create a cited provision of the Constitution and remove future doubt in the application of the law on judges. Legal considerations and the principle of legal basis of the Supreme Court and the future Supreme Cassation Court are usually sources of law in our legal system. The evidence, the law on the regulation of courts, Article 40 of Article 3 – regarding the session of the Supreme Court of Serbia, a certain legal understanding, adopted at the session of the Department, obliges all major ones in the composition of the Department, while the provision of Article 42(2) of the same law norms that the principled legal position adopted at the general session obliges all the greater and the departments of the Supreme Court of Serbia and can only be amended at the general session. Therefore, it is also provided for in Article 43(3) and Article 45(2). Proposal for a law on the regulation of courts and on the work of the Supreme Court. In addition, custom and in our right is a formal source of law when the law points to it, and the most obvious example is the Law on Bond Relations. In the case of such a situation, it is necessary, in order to remove the diversity of the legality of the solution to the same thing, to make it clear to the judges when applying the rules, and to create legal certainty and certainty about the application of the right – that the courts judge on the basis of legal considerations, principles of legal attitudes and customs, when that is only by law. In this article, the law did not specify it and the basic criticism was reduced to it. Now I have to remind you of a few examples, which say that this article has not been respected so far and that it cannot be respected, more precisely, that it will not be respected in the next period and after the adoption of this law, for various reasons. I'll only name one. I must refer first to the prime minister's exposés, which he says - judicial reform will be accelerated, with the aim of building an effective and independent judiciary and prosecution and including the rule of law and legal certainty. Then, in two cases, I'll explain to you what legal certainty looks like. The achievement of this goal implies the adoption of a series of laws that will be regulated by the judicial system in accordance with the European standards and interests of Serbian citizens. This is the line of origin - the European standards and interests of Serbian citizens. First, the interest of Serbian citizens is not translated into the Republic Parliament. You know which party has the largest number of MPs and is not in power. Secondly, European standards have cost us for the last eight years, how much DS has been in power. Third, European standards can be standards of an international contract, which can be more harmful to Serbian citizens, only because they bear the name European standards. That's what my colleague Krasic was talking about. He says -- within the framework of the judicial reform, a new network of courts will be established and prosecutors who will refer violations to appeals courts, as the Constitution of the court for the entire territory of Serbia. This is a new choice and re-election, which you are announcing in the exhibition and why basic functions cannot be applied in the judiciary is a new re-election and a new race to court, or to court the republican majority, the position, to keep judges in their positions, or to make further progress, given their political engagement or commitment. So I'm only going to give you two examples. The first example is in the city of Belgrade, that a company founded by the city, the Public Undertaking Parking Service, is the full budget of the DS, the full budget of the Belgrade City Assembly, is against the law, as judges know it is against the law, but are again making a verdict in favour of the company, because the budget, for God's sake, must be filled. Therefore, a decision has been made on public parking, or Article 19, by which all drivers who do not pay the parking ticket are required to pay the additional ticket. What's this about? When you don't pay the ticket, because you've run out of time to rent or to stop your car in a parking space, you get a fine of 1,500 dinars in Belgrade, 1,000 in Novi Sad, in Nis is a little lower, etc. Here's the "Parking Service" calling for this decision, with an explanation that it's an extra card. I now have to inform you of the following, that under Article 277. The law on bond relations, the one who is late in fulfilling his monetary obligation owes only a tight interest, next to it, also owes the damage compensation, if that damage is greater than the amount you charge, but only if that damage is proved. Therefore, a member of the Public Parking Decision cannot be correct, and the Parking Service does not have the right to charge additional tickets to citizens. In accordance with Article 270. The law on bond relations, the additional card is a classic agreed penalty and cannot be applied in case of delays in meeting the monetary obligations. It's the Parking Service again doing counter-constitutional work. It is clear that "Parking Service" cannot punish users in this way, because in the Law on Infringements, parking services are not defined as a violation, so the Law on Infringements does not regulate an area relating to illegal parking, because we all know that the traffic police are doing it – a spider comes in, picks up your vehicle, you go to parking, pay and, of course, by the Law on Infringements, you have the sum that is already foreseen. There's nothing in this law that says that if someone doesn't pay for a parking ticket, they've committed a violation. Therefore, this is the illegal and unfounded enriching of one company, in this case, "Parking Services". So, what's going on here? All court rulings, when Parking Service sued Serbian citizens who did not want to pay this fine, went in favour of Parking Services, against the law. This proposal is being evaluated in the Constitutional Court, I think it will fall, and then we will ask a question from this pay phone – what about the money the Parking Service took to the citizens incorrectly, illegally charging something for which it is not competent? The other thing that is good for comparison is certainly mandates at the Belgrade District Court. So, the moment the new set of judicial laws began to be discussed, when they began to talk again about the lustration and re-election of judges, there was a change in the case-law regarding the return of the SRS mandate, although hundreds of rulings were passed across Serbia over the past month by absolutely all district courts, who, in accordance with the Law on Local Elections, returned the mandates to the SRS, those we won in the May 11th elections. In the last seven days, the Belgrade District Court has begun to make totally the opposite decisions to those it has made so far. So complaints were rejected in Belgrade, in the municipalities of Novi Belgrade, Surcin, Barajevo, Palilula, Zvezdar and SRS, for which SRS, coerced, filed criminal charges against judges of the District Court in Belgrade, Mirjana Arangelovic, Mirjana Ridjski, Dusice Marinkovic; this is one of the larger, and the Second Major District Court – against Judges Sladjana Bojovic, Željka Skoric and Zivana Djukanovic. I will also remind you that some experts, as we can call them, are, let's say, on this side, Omer Hadziomerovic, the vice president of the Society of Judges, said that each judge is independent and independent in his decision. He makes the decision according to consciousness and belief. Imagine, according to consciousness and belief. There is no need to be fooled and to think that judges are unmistakable people, which is what we claim in this case, because sometimes different judicial councils within a court can make a different decision in a case. I am now asking the question, because this man went a little bit to the Palace of Justice and saw that bust of Emperor Dushan and Dushan's code which he bears and read in that code of basic provisions that were passed back in 1354, in which judges are said to judge by law, according to the law, as it says in the laws, and not by the fears of the empire. Here, apparently, this fear prevailed. I must, Madam Minister, remind you of the crime that took place in the Third Municipal Court, when an official at the Municipal Court approved an agreement on the termination of a contract with a person who has no authority to be a signatory on the one hand, used by a forged authority intended for Vračar Municipality, and signed an agreement for the Municipality of Zvezda. It's about Dušan Stupar, who had the authority to conclude the contract, not to break it up. I have to point one more thing out that this is the authority of the Vrachar municipality, for closure, but he also used it and managed to verify the termination of the contract at the Third Municipal Court for the Municipality of Zvezda. Based on the court's authority, this court council, cited by Judges Sladjana Bojovic, Zivana Djukanovic and Zeljko Skoric, has made a negative decision and refused to appeal to the Zveztar council, for the forgeries allowed in court. Now we must initiate a court case to determine that this is a fake, which is not disputed, because the Third Municipal Court has issued such a letter, where it is aware of these facts, and to return to its mandates. If the judge had done the job right then, had he not been politically defined, he had respected the decision he respected in the first decision-making in favour of the SRS, such as in Vracar, on the same basis, today we would not be talking about the depolitisation of the court. Excuse me, just one more second. Regarding the depolitisation of the court, a DS MP has submitted an amendment asking that judges have the right to be members of the RIK, an election commission of an autonomous province, or a unit of local self-government, and this amendment has been adopted; it is Konstantinovic. The judge should not be proposed by any political party, for nothing, and not by the municipal electoral commission, the Republic, or anything else. This amendment was accepted by the government with the reason that it would reward all those judges who worked in its interest, because we know what cash amounts are related to RIK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7939	Sixteen minutes and 30 seconds. People's MP, time at your envoy's disposal has been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milorad Buh, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 3(1) of the bill, and I will read it. Article 3 paragraph 1 states - the judge is obliged to maintain confidence in his independence and impartiality in every occasion. On this proposal for a law, I have made an amendment, and I have requested that Article 3(1) be deleted. For what? Because it's undefined and excessive. Why undefined and excessive? Because the independence and impartiality of the judge is envisaged and regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and it is unnecessary to repeat the provisions provided for by our constitution. Let's see what the Constitution says. Article 142 paragraph 2 states that courts are independent and independent in their work and judges based on the Constitution, the law and other general acts, when provided for by law, the general rules of international law and approved international contracts. Article 149 says – the judge is independent and subject only to the Constitution and the law. The provision put forward in the proposal is indeed incomplete and unclear, as it says – the judge is obliged to maintain confidence in his independence and impartiality in every occasion. What happens if he doesn't do his duty? What's going on in that situation? Is that principle true or not? Does that constitutional principle apply, or not? It always does, always has to be true, whether it's respected, respected by the judge or not. It is a constitutional principle which the judge respects, or does not respect, but the constitutional principle is the constitutional principle and we cannot change it. Next, let me get a little deeper analysis. He says – the judge is obliged to at any time... What does it mean, at every opportunity? In court, in life, in a bar, on vacation, etc.? If he's on vacation, does he commit him, or does he not commit him, when he's in the restaurant, when he's on the bus? We're a little banalizing, but just... You've mixed up here both rights and constitutional principles, both rights and obligations. You made it a commitment to the judge. It's not a commitment, it's a principle that can't be broken. In an explanation, the Government says - the amendment is not accepted for the reasons behind the basic duties of judges declared by the Constitution, which essentially define its position and enable the implementation of the principle of judicial independence and independence in practice. It's duty again. It's not about duty, it's about constitutional principles and constitutional law. In the overall reform that you are proposing here, it is important to note that, when you entered constitutional reform, before judicial reform, you had to form a new national strategy for judicial reform. Namely, we have an official reform of the 2006 judiciary. It was off-limits to this reform, but before entering any reform, we must have a national strategy that will cover the organisational, technical, social, sociological, financial, administrative and all other aspects of this reform. Each of these aspects is very important and it must be an integral part of this reform and national strategy. You are entering this reform only because it was an EU order. The European Commission has criticised you, critically referred to the unfinished reform of the judiciary and you have moved on quickly, and therefore we have a situation that we have had a total of 51 amendments in the draft law on the regulation of judges, with the government accepting 23 and 28 not accepted. If you'd gone a little bit deeper into matter, then you'd have accepted far more amendments. If 45% of the amendments are accepted, that says something. What's that? He's talking about how we haven't seen enough matter and that we haven't made an adequate and quality law that will show everything he needs to show in practice. In this law, a total of 63 amendments were submitted, 22 were accepted, 41 did not, which means 35%. Again, a huge number of amendments, which clearly states that the bill, in this case, about judges, is inadequate and we haven't completely made it what it should look like. The Serbian Radical Party has taken advantage of its ability to amend the laws, as well as all other opposition parties, we see that even MPs have submitted amendments, so the government has come out with the Amendments, which clearly says that it is an imperfect law, that it was built in the way it should not have been put down and that we had to get far more serious into this area. The Justice Minister is present now, so I ask the question in accordance with the provisions of Article 15. Constitutional law – when will the harmonisation of all other legal provisions under the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry be carried out? In the legal system, we have between three and a half thousand legal regulations and, in accordance with the provisions of this constitutional law, all state authorities were obliged to propose and comply with the provisions of all the legal provisions of the Constitution. Unfortunately, we've got maybe ten to 15 by now, or, even, thirty laws of alignment, and I'm asking you, what's going to happen to the other regulations that aren't in line? It's typical of a position that doesn't even respect the Constitution. Who cares about laws? It was a legal obligation for you, and someone will have to answer for the fact that it's not in line. It's about a bunch of legal regulations that had to be done. At least the laws, if we don't get the sublegals, but we have to. We had quite enough time, the Constitution went into effect in the eleventh month of last year, so enough time, two years, to correct the alignment of all legal projects. Let's get back to the National Strategy for Justice Reform. It was adopted in the fifth month of 2006 and are clearly committed to the government, according to the ministry and other state bodies, regarding the implementation of the National Strategy and the reform of the judiciary. The general provisions of this national strategy provide for certain activities of each national authority. Unfortunately, none of it was done. Because of the speed, I'm just going to say a few important objectives of judicial reform. It is said – independence, transparency, accountability and efficiency, then for each of these principles, in terms of independence: independent management, independent budgetary authority, independent determination of the general framework and internal arrangement of the work of courts; in transparency: open selection process, progress of responsibility in the termination of the judicial function, etc.; the deadlines for the reform itself have been set. We have short-term frameworks – 2006/2007. In the year, we have settled accounts in the framework of 2008/2009. years and we have long-term reform frameworks –2010/2011. Unfortunately, none of this national strategy is respected. Furthermore, we don't have a national strategy, this is just a partial resolution of the entire justice system. You know he can't do that, he can't do that. It is your obligation to make a national strategy first and then go into real reform, reform of the judiciary, but it is obvious that of all our constitutions, the law and national strategies is a stronger directive that comes from Brussels and says – finish this in a month or two, and by that order you execute it. These days, we are talking about filing an action against the Croatian suit for, according to them, "genocide, ethnic cleansing of Croats in the Republic of Croatia". Since you will participate in the creation of this, I am speaking to you, Minister. We hear these days that, officially, the government has made a decision to go to the prosecution, certain authorities are in charge of participating, and you will be an active participant in all of this. I must inform the public that what comes from the EU concerns me, and you will do as you will. I know what you're going to do, you're going to drop this suit, and eventually you're going to accept the instructions you're going to get from the European Commission and other European institutions, you're going to put it in a certain form, and there's not going to be any opposition. Why won't it be? Because throughout history, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, or former states, we had multiple genocide over the Serbian people – the end of the 19th century, in the First World War, in World War II, the end of the 20th century. No lawsuit, no serious objection, not even came, no lawsuit, but the opposition did not come from the Serbian side that genocide was committed against the Serb people. Probably, in your ministry you have a piece of genocide material over the Serbian people, but it's incomplete, it's been removed, it was 15 years ago, which will hold it more and so on, it's in some drawers. I'll deliver here one of the materials that made up the Krajisnik associations, about the genocide shown in certain tables, where you can see clearly how many victims are, how many were killed, how many were missing, how many were injured, how many were destroyed, destroyed, and damaged property, moving and immobilized. Just because of the public, I will read to you that, according to the Association of Citizens and the Government of the Republika Srpska in exile, in the territory of Croatia, those identified, 4.461, have disappeared –2.381, making up a total of 6,842. We have 15 other unidentified and several other locations where we haven't dug up, we don't know exactly how many dead, but we've rounded it up by 7,000, so we have 13,500 dead, missing -- 2,381 and 13,500 wounded. For damaged and destroyed property, mobile and immobilized, here, we have data for about 12,500 apartments, house for housing – 24,752, economic facilities – 12,341, cooperative homes – 182, ambulances – 56, churches – 78, museum – 29, cemetery – 181, shop – 325, plumbing – 113, trafostation – 96, industrial plants – 167, monuments – 3,200, catering facilities – 311, craft shops – 410, warehouses – 118. Then, all the low-voltage power grids in the Bania area, like, Dalmatia, Kordun, Western Slavonia, all the phone network with auxiliary telephone stations and so on. The destruction of cemeteries, the burning of houses, the cutting of forests of noble trees continued after the end of war conflicts until today. Here, I'll stop here, time's up. This is for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7941	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7942	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed one of the most important members of the proposal for a Law on Judges, in which in some ways all the principles and themes we had the opportunity to discuss during the debate are united in principle. The fact that paragraph 1 states that the judge is obliged to maintain trust in his independence and impartiality on any occasion is what is most important when it comes to the relation of the judge and the judiciary to the citizens. The issue of establishing trust and trust in the judiciary, trust in the judge, in the application of the law, in the correct determination of facts, in making judgments that will be based solely on the law and on the established facts, is something that represents the basic and most important segment of what is called trust in the judiciary. If you look at the solutions in this law, and the solution relating to material independence, and the solution relating to the right to professional training and training, and the disciplinary procedure, all of this is, in some ways, sublime in this – independence and impartiality. Of course, we cannot without bringing this law into contact with the law on areas and courts' seats, where, in fact, there is a problem that we are following in public these days, a problem that can arise, especially when laws start to apply, when new judges are elected – the issue of independence. We simply cannot ignore the fact that the judges are scared, that the judges are scared not only of why they will be subjected to re-election, but, above all, because they do not see at this time clear criteria on the basis of which this procedure will be done. The change in the network of courts, the abolition of a large number of courts, the fact that a large number of judges will remain, de facto, out of work, is something that can greatly affect the independence of those judges who are past this sieve and resolve the re-election of judges. It is indeed a big question, in what way and how do the criteria of this type of re-election be carried out? I fear that this is not to the detriment of the very important constitutional principle, as defined in Article 3(1), because it is required here that the judge maintains any opportunity of trust in his independence. I appeal, when criteria are established, to be taken care of and to find a way. I don't see at this point how, but probably all those in the High Council of the Judiciary, at the Department of Justice, have to make sure that they take care to choose a strong, character person, in which they will in no way be able to put pressure on the decision-making process. As far as impartiality is concerned, she's connected to a few things. It can be connected, and in many cases, in practice, it is also linked to the great intricacies of a number of judges, the fact that there was not enough training, education, experience to apply the law. For this reason, there is a situation where, when a procedure is conducted, facts are determined, evidence is provided, evidence suggested, bias appears. Perseverance arises for various personal reasons. All those who were in practice could see that it was happening for judges to judge based on sympathy, antipathy, based on the fact that one acquaintance recommended them, and it is interesting to hear from the minister of justice statistics – to which extent the presidents of the courts make decisions on exceptions. There are various reasons why requests for exemption are filed, but in a number of cases, and when it comes to justified reasons, such solutions are made in order for the presidents of the courts not to object to their colleagues from the same court, and that, believe me, affects bias. The material position can also affect independence and impartiality. In fact, this Article 3 paragraph 1 needs, in practice, to create a decisive, quality, brave, impartial, educated judge. This Article 3rd position should leave the future Serbian judge, who will rightly regain citizens' confidence in the judiciary, which has been completely segregated. When we bring all this together, the new law on seats and areas of courts, which is largely worrying about judges being out of work, brings judges into a situation to fear for their existence, that they have to be courted by those who decide about them, and we have seen how this high council of the judiciary will, in fact, make an unchangeable decision. When we see the part relating to disciplinary responsibility, I must commend the law, it has really elaborated it, but all the other aspects that are mentioned here – material independence, of course, is not developed nor the right to professional training, I am afraid it will not affect enough that such a Serbian judge forms quality. It is very important that citizens, based on these new laws now under discussion in the Assembly, try to believe that the judiciary in Serbia, in the future, will be able to be independent and impartial. But when such a big and big mistake is made, such as the new law on the seats and areas of the courts, then neither by the Constitution of the declared principles of independence and impartiality and a good desire to create such a strong and characteric judge, that it reflects this trust with citizens and parties in this process, I'm afraid, in practice, there will be nothing left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7943	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Slobodan Maras. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Slobodan Maras. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7944	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the LDP has submitted another adjustment through this amendment to Article 4 of the Justice Act, because we believe it is necessary to supplement these criteria that determine the award of judges. It is said in Article 4(2) – the salaries of judges must be in line with the dignity of the judicial function and the burden of responsibility. We agree that the judge's office must have a certain dignity. We agree that she carries a certain burden of responsibility. However, there is another principle missing, and this principle would, in fact, be – the results of the work. The LDP has repeatedly pointed out this principle, because if someone is worthy, if someone is responsible for their work, they should probably show some results in performing their work, to deserve that reward, that compensation for their work. It's not enough just to realize that it's a dignified function, to realize that it carries a certain burden of responsibility. It would be good to specifically indicate that all of this together can only work if it gives results. These two principles cannot without a third—the results, which is why the judges are doing, what the judges are for, and why they judge judges, which seems to me to be the most important principle, which has been left out of this position 2. It's just like talking about one table and producing it with three legs. We expect him to be stable, standing, expecting him to carry a certain burden. But without that fourth leg, it's very loose and very easy to fall. Therefore, if in this law on judges we insist and the judges retaliate with certain controls, that every three years, literally, the judge's ability to perform the functions of the judge is being checked by means of certain statistics. We're controlling the rest of it, whether he's really like and deserved, responsible, and whether he's given some work results. That's what we measure by statistics. So everything else is subject to some discretionary assessments, but the results of the work are concrete, which have the figures precisely marked values. It is the figures that say whether and how many cases have been done, how many cases, how many cases, litigious, criminal, executive, and any one, confirmed by the second-degree body, is it all in the function of the real needs of the citizens, which is why they are addressing the court. If we already have these two criteria, these two principles paid by the judge, I don't see why this third, most important, would not be added. Therefore, we remain on the proposed amendment and we propose that the government make a positive statement about it, because we believe that it is a very important factor in determining the judge's salary.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7945	I set a break, and work in the afternoon, at 15 hours, we continue the debate in particular on the same amendment to Article 4. The first to be declared is the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Thank you. [[After break, 15.00]] We continue to work in the afternoon part of the session, by discussing the details of the amendment to Article 4, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Judita Popović, Natasa Micic and Slobodan Maras. Before I give my word to the People's Parliament to Verity Radetti, a notice, based on Article 85 of Article 5, that we will be working after 18 hours today. National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic will arrive this afternoon and, in agreement with the heads of parliament, will specify the course of today's afternoon work until the end. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of the afternoon, a debate was launched on the amendment of counterparts Natasa Micic, Judite Popovic and Slobodan Maras to Article 4(2). Proposal for a law on judges. What's this article about? Article 4. talks about material independence, it's a title above the member, something that's a newspaper in our practice, but we're not going to talk about it. Article 4(2) states that the salary of the judge must comply with the dignity of the judicial function and the burden of responsibility. Of course it has to be in line with these two criteria, but these are too general criteria and, of course, whenever the legal standard is so imprecise, it always opens up the possibility of abuse in the application of these or such members. The colleagues who submitted the amendment well noted and suggested that Article 4(2)'s position be amended and that it reads: "The payment of the judge must be in line with the dignity of the judge's office, the burden of responsibility", so it is prescribed from the Government's proposal, and it is added: "and the results shown in performing the judicial function". They explained that the proposed amendment proposed that, as an additional criterion setting out the principles for the judge's salary, the results are defined and shown in the performance of the judge's office. I am convinced that none of the MPs, none of the citizens who are following our work today, none of the judges and none of the employees in the judiciary could make any remarks on this amendment. So the amendment did not touch on what the government proposed, in what we say is general – that wages must be in line with the dignity of the judicial function and the burden of responsibility. It is amazing that the government did not accept this add-on: "and the results shown in performing the judicial function". What does the government say, why she didn't accept it? "The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed solution makes the concept of the judge's material independence clearer and more precise." This is something that's amazing. We've been saying these days, I repeat that and now, we understand that the government has some plotted pathway, has some idea of which matter should be regulated, and it can be understood that the government does not accept all the amendments, but the government has accepted, about 20% of the amendments, and 22 amendments have been accepted specifically, and this bill has 107 members. So almost 20% of the amendments were accepted. Indeed, the question is raised, as is the previous law, is the government sure of what it has proposed and is it possible that the government itself has admitted that it has had a 20% failure in the legal text? Of course, at least from the point of view of the SRS, our programme, in the amendments the government has accepted, there are a number of amendments that we do not think should have been accepted, as there are those that we think are well accepted, but not accepting this amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a law on judges speaks more than clearly of the government's intention to influence the executive authority's direct influence on judges, that is, all judicial authorities. If not, why would the government say that it is more accurate when it is simply said that the judges' salaries must be in line with the dignity of the judge's office and the burden of responsibility? This is more accurate for the government than when it is added to this and that it must be related to the results shown in performing its judicial function. So, I have asked you, Mrs Malovic, in previous days, and I strongly recommend that you take another look at all the amendments that the MPs have submitted to this whole set of laws that you, on behalf of the Government, represent, in particular, to take another look at the arguments that the Government has given, because the explanation that you have given for the amendment to article 4 offends the intelligence of the Members of the People's Parliaments, because it is more than obvious what is actually hidden behind what you have proposed to this article. What do you want? You want judges like that court council from Kragujevac, which Natasa Jovanovic spoke of, or that you have judges who are obedient, such as those in the Belgrade District Court, who have decided on complaints from the SRS's board of directors from New Belgrade and Zemun. Now, first of all, for the sake of the public, I have to introduce you to a very interesting case when it comes to parliamentary mandates in the township of Zemun. We have two convictions, one brought in at 12.45 hours, and the other brought in, or first, at 10 o'clock. The one brought in at 10 o'clock was tried by Judges Sladjana Bojovic, President of the Council, the famous Zeljko Skoric and Zivana Djukanovic, members of the Council. They respected the appeal and annulled the Assembly of the City of Zemun's resolution in the position to confirm the mandates of the representatives of the municipality of Zemun and in the position of 2nd, the appeal was rejected, according to the verdict, in which the complainants proposed that the SO Zemun's decision be annulled to determine the termination of the council's mandate, among other things, Ksenija Blagojevic. There are other names listed, but I'm deliberately mentioning this name, because of this second verdict. So, this verdict, which I was now quoting, was reached at 10 o'clock on January 21st 2008, and then, at 12 o'clock and 45 minutes, was ruled on by Ksenija Blagojevic, you remembered, they remembered, the citizens of Serbia – "The appeal is being rejected in the part which the mourners have proposed to annul SO Zemun's decision to determine the termination of Ksenija Blagojevic's term of office". We have a verdict by Judges Mirjana Aragelovic, President of the Council, Dusica Marinkovic and Mirjana Ridjski and they say – the appeal is respected, the appeal of Ksenija Blagojevic, and the resolution of the Assembly of the City Municipality of Zemun is annulled, the number and so on. I ask you, Madam Minister of Justice, which of these two convictions should be valid for the city municipality of Zemun? In the same case, we have, in the same court, two different verdicts. I spoke this morning, we know, and we have information that there was a general chaos in the Belgrade District Court on Friday, because it was to be found, to draw up a judge larger than the judges who are willing to do what was done Friday at the Belgrade District Court. You want judges like this, and you have therefore proposed Article 99, which today is feared by all the judges in Serbia. It is a member who predicts that, following the adoption of this law, the lustration of judges in Belgrade is done in a literal sense. So judges must fear whether they will please the representatives of the executive government in their work, whether they will please local powermakers from the DS. If they don't, they're threatened with the danger that lustration will be applied to them, because that's exactly what you're trying to present to us as an epochal, revolutionary discovery, as you say, in the reform of the judicial system. So there's not a word about any reform. This is about those judges who are willing to listen to the executive power, listen to the President of the Republic, listen to the tycoons and local powers, count on the fact that no lustration will be applied to them and that they will continue to perform that function. Those who perform their duties honestly and honestly will come under the influence of the congregation’s majority, at a time when the resolution and appointment of these judges will be discussed. That is why we, Serbian radicals, on a daily basis, will use each of these amendments to stamp these judges, this minority within the Serbian judiciary, to mention the name and last name of judges who have succumbed to influences and have not applied the law, for which the law is not equal for all and for which they are not all the same under the law. We will do everything to protect those judges who do their job honestly and honestly and in accordance with the law, confidently, and we are not just saying this now and not just today, but we have been saying it years ago, that most judges in Serbia are honest and honest people. Unfortunately, they must hide in the mouse hole, because the courts are harassed by the few judges who are directly influenced by the political powers, or by the ruling coalition, by the executive government, tycoon, etc. We must, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, fight for a truly independent judiciary. We have these days of everyday appeals and the Society of Judges, and the President of the Supreme Court, and various judicial associations. Everyone expects that, first of all, this law in Parliament should not be passed, that judges do not come into the situation to discuss them as if they had just completed a traineeship. That's why we urge you, Madam Minister, to withdraw this law. It's not too late. You're young and don't ruin your career like this and get your name dirty. I told you this morning, now I repeat, you are only here to be abused. You are convinced that you are doing something good, of course, none of this is going to be the case, and this amendment to Article 4, is the best proof that there is no good intentions when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and when it comes to judges. If not, the government would accept this amendment and say that they are paying the judge, among other things, should depend on the results shown in performing the judge's post. What is it that can be a criterion for determining the judge's salary if the result in performing the judicial function is not shown? The point is that you have been shown the result of performing a judicial function, in fact, the degree of obedience of the judge in relation to the executive power, in relation to the various powers, relative to the tycoons. As long as that's the case, honest and honest judges won't be able to do their job in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7948	Anyone else want a word? (No) People's MPs Milutin Jelicic and Radoslav Mojsilovic together submitted to the 6th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7949	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Honored Madam Minister, Representatives of the Ministry, Article 6. The proposal for a law on judges is regulated by the responsibility of the judges for the damage they cause by performing the judicial function. In the position of the 1st member, the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the damage caused by illegal or irregular work. The amendment that my colleague from the New Serbia Parliamentary Group Milutin Jelic and I, after the above text, are to supplement the position 1 with the words 'with the right to refund the damage paid by illegal or irregular work by a concrete judge'. That supplement is necessary because of the seriousness of the work, the very necessary expertise, responsibility and legal conduct of the judges. The above-mentioned judges would be fully relaxed if they had covered all their mistakes by the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia can be a pledge for situations where wrong decisions have occurred due to the position and conviction of a concrete judge, who at some point differed from court practice and which can be debated, but cannot be a pledge for illegal and irregular work of a judge. By accepting this amendment, it would greatly strengthen the responsibility of the judge and the very expertise of the judge, not so easily pass illegal and incorrect judgments and would certainly reduce the number of judgments lifted. I stress, in the end, that by introducing the right to refund, as provided for in this amendment, it is not a general obligation to refund the damage, but rather the right to apply a refund in certain drastic cases, which would also be some kind of punishment for irresponsible conduct, and, to the greatest extent, general prevention that will contribute to the more successful and quality work of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7950	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. He has the word Aleksandar Martinovic, so the MP Fired Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7951	Ladies and gentlemen, by not accepting this amendment, the government has shown, on the one hand, that it does not behave domestically in relation to Serbia's budget, and, on the other hand, makes it clear to the judges themselves that it will act selectively, from case to case, and that it is likely that the basic criterion in asking the judge who has violated the legal order of the Republic of Serbia will be his political loyalty to the current regime. In Article 6 of the Law on Judges, the Government has, in fact, taken over a similar provision that exists in the Law on Civil Servants and similar provisions of the Law on Liabilities, when it comes to the responsibility of the State for damage caused by illegal or irregular work by citizens, or third parties. But the government didn't take care of one thing. It's a far more delicate position of the judge than a civil servant. First of all, the judge is highly educated, the judge must have passed the judicial exam. The judge decides in matters that are more serious financially than some civil servant in a particular ministry. If the judge deliberately, or out of extreme negligence, causes damage to the citizens, or third parties, then he must bear the damage. The government cannot say – it can ask the judge to re-fund funds paid by the Republic of Serbia for damages to citizens, or to third parties. What does that mean? This means that in some cases, the government will demand the refund of those funds, and in some cases it will not require the recovery of those funds. It could be millions of dollars. What about a situation where the government doesn't ask for a refund of those funds? So the Republic of Serbia's budget would have to pay for the damage that the judge, on purpose or out of extreme negligence, has done to third parties. But that amount of funds will not be replaced in the Republic of Serbia's budget, because someone has decided not to ask the judge to recover funds. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is filled with the resources of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How can you pay people's money in the name of third-party damages without asking the judge to recover those funds? He doesn't give the government his private money. They don't give the ministers their private money, so now they can decide whether or not they're going to ask for a refund of funds from the judge. They give people's money. When you give people's money for the damage caused by a third-person judge, that is, a citizen, you have to ask him, in any case, to recover those funds. So, on the one hand, it is financially inadmissible, and from the point of view of host availability, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is inadmissible for the government to arbitrarily decide whether to seek return of funds or not. On the other hand, in practice, such a provision will lead to pure political self-will. A judge who is loyal to the regime, who makes judgments as the regime expects him to, or a specific minister, I don't think, Mrs. Malovic, is specific to you, but there may be a minister of justice who will call the judge and say - in that case and in that case you have to do so, because if you don't do so tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the state will ask you to return those funds. A judge who acts as the government tells him will probably not be asked to recover those funds. So, in some cases, you're going to be looking for a refund of funds, or a refund of money from the budget, and in some cases you won't. Where the judge is politically loyal, nothing that makes Serbia's budget three, four, five or ten million dinars thinner. Where the judge is not politically loyal, you will ask him to return funds to the Republic of Serbia's budget. When it comes to judges, when it comes to the state's attitude towards citizens, then there must be no such dispositive provisions, so you can say, the government will assess whether it will demand a refund from the judge or not. A judge who deliberately, or out of the extreme disregard of the law at the expense of citizens, so the Republic of Serbia is in a position to compensate for the damage from the budget, must in each case compensate for the damage. Serbia's government must not be given free will to decide whether or not it will seek recovery of those funds. In practice, it'll cause chaos. In practice, it will lead to pure self-will. There won't be, absolutely, any precise criteria in which the judge has to pay for the damage, and in which situations he doesn't have to pay for the damage. This is also a cloaked form of pressure on the courts. Perhaps you, Mrs Malovic, are not aware of this, but those who wrote the draft law on judges who forced you to present it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had a hidden intention – to put pressure on judges by such a provision, in practice. It is obvious that the Serbian government does not sincerely care that the judge is truly independent and independent. The court is independent and independent only in the situation when it is known in advance whether the judge will have to pay for the damage it causes to the citizens, not that the government will decide on its own, so he will say – the judge will pay, and that judge will not pay. Where is your legal security for the citizens themselves? After all, the judge is also a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. He expects that there is some certainty about some future course of action. There's no such thing as certainty here. You're going to amnesty some judge's responsibility for the damage, and you're going to pay some judges the damage you've done. It simply goes beyond the basic legal principles contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What it says in the explanation why this amendment is not accepted doesn't make any sense. So, you say - in the other positions of this member, it is stated when and under what conditions the judge can answer for the damage he causes to the citizens. The essence of this amendment is also the essence of what the SRS thinks – that in any situation, the judge must bear responsibility, financial responsibility, material responsibility, for the damage which, because of his illegal and irregular work, causes citizens. This is how you, again, will put the judges on your own political test. This is also a kind of lustration of judges, this is a kind of pressure on the judiciary – hidden pressure, but very perfidan. Absolutely, what you wrote in Article 6(1). The bill of law goes against the principles you're advocating. Nothing will be of the independence of the judges, nothing will be of their expertise, nothing will be of the legal certainty of the citizens, if this member of the law remains as you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7952	The word has been made by the MP Fired Mihajlovic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is six minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7953	Dearly respected, in light of the facts just presented by my colleague Martinovic, the government should really reconsider this amendment submitted by Milutin Jelic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. I think fellow Martinovic has made it very clear that the failure to adopt this amendment gives judges free hands, that, in a way, it protects them, protects them and gives them the opportunity to be irresponsible. I don't mean just that – justice or injustice, just or unfair, under pressure made a decision. I also think that when they feel that they're entitled to the opposite side, because they've been ordered to judge and so on, they have the opportunity to make it difficult with the trial. In particular, my family and I have been involved for 12 years in a process conducted before a municipal court in Belgrade. I'm not going to tell you what this is about, because I'm not going to privatize this pay phone. In those 12 years, four or five judges changed. The decision has not been made until today. The system by which they flee from responsibility is next – one hearing in June, next in December, and so on year after year. The latest tampering my family had was in the next – it was scheduled for judicial skill; namely, without it, the judge, I believe, was unable to make any decision. When over 100,000 dinars were paid, when the Soviets went out in the field, when they showed up in the courtroom, they didn't know what to say. The judge and all those present in the courtroom saw a man who was in the field, because I was in the field when he was doing those measurements, who looked at that paper and didn't even know how to read it. He said, "My colleague wrote it, calculated it, and now he's not here." Of course, the hearing has been postponed. But what do you expect from a government that doesn't even think about the consequences of the laws it makes, that doesn't think practically, but only theoretically, or the way it's being passed on to it from Brussels? In the same government, for example, is one Tomica Milosavljevic, the on-call minister. In fact, I'm a gentleman, and I'm going to use his example as a description, because I believe that's true for most of our current government, I've referred one question from this pay phone. I was punished twice for that question. The Serbian Parliament's administrative board today confirmed the fine and I and seven other radicals have been fined with solid money. It is not a problem with those money, but I find it a little strange and illogical that Tomica Milosavljevic answers this question, and the present Mrs. Comic has just punished me for asking that question. For viewers in Serbia, our esteemed citizens, I will repeat this question, but not as Tomica Milosavljevic wrote it. I, as a layman, expressed a dilemma, wondered that Alexander Vukic may not be ill with schizophrenia, because what he says in this country could cause civil war. He declared that Serbian radicals had prepared weapons, that our dukes had raised their fighters, brought them to Serbia and that they were all preparing to kill him. Such things can, at the very least, cause a street fight, and, God forbid, something worse. That is why I asked – is it possible for this congregation to know if there is any medical diagnosis that confirms my thinking? Of course, Mr. Milosavljevic, first of all, tempered this question of mine, in an answer that was sent to me under regular number 9009/08-02. He said this way, he tried to quote me, but failed – is there any possibility that from Serbia's political life, for betterment (the better is certainly not my word), for health reasons, someone who has suffered a dangerous illness? I agree with the following quote, because it's really mine, I guess, I'm not an expert, but I think it's the case of Alexander Vukic. I'm going to cut this answer short, and I'm going to go straight to a specific point, estimating the time of this assembly, so I'm going to skip the first two paragraphs, in which the esteemed minister states the provisions of the law, the official lists in which these provisions have been published, and based on which it suits me, so I'm going to move on to this more concrete. "The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has established, as one of the fundamental human rights and freedoms, and the right to the protection of personal data. It is also prohibited to use personal data outside the purpose for which they have been collected, in accordance with the law. As stated above, the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments has not established the obligation of Members of Parliament to obtain health assurances, and regulations in the field of health care are not prescribed in the manner and procedure of assessing the health status of the Members of the People's Parliament" etc. All in all, two or three times, for Mr Tomica Milosavljevic, Aleksandar Vukic is a national MP. Thank God, he's not and he won't be a MP. On the second Serbian TV programme, we watch the sequel to the series, from the back it says "normal," it should be me, "confusiond and crazy". The minister's confused, obviously, I'm trying to be normal, but I don't know how much I'm going to do with a government like this and answers like this, and who's crazy, we don't know exactly yet. Some data, apparently, exists, the minister has it, but he can't say. I'm telling him now - Mr. Minister... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7954	Six minutes and 30 seconds. Thank you, People's Messenger. You didn't respect Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which obliges you to speak about what is on the agenda. Thank you. I ask you and other MPs not to abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 103 is very clear. The speaker can only talk about what is on the agenda, and we have made it clear that, in relation to Article 106, which is the basis for the sentence, in the time available to your MP group, you did not bother to talk about the agenda. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Please, the word has been made by Parliamentarian Ognjen Mihajlovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7955	By virtue of Article 6(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in Mrs. Comic, you didn't let me finish my sentence. The fact is that the time of our parliamentary group is up. However, I failed to complete my thought, and you came to the conclusion that I did not comply with Article 103. If you can remember, I was talking, explaining one amendment. I agreed to that amendment. I tried to explain what kind of guard the government is in our government, but I didn't get the point. Now I'm gonna take a chance on something else. I am interested – how is it possible for the Administrative Board to punish me based on your recommendation, based on your two warnings, and for the minister to respect my question and answers – indifference, illogically, unusually, but for him, it seems, normally, to him and only to him normally?- I'm sorry. Mrs. Komic, I am taking this opportunity to address two questions. How could I be punished when I didn't commit any offense? In that case, I'm going to make another example. Mr. Nikola Savic has been punished more severely than my smallness, and that only once, a month and a half ago, has been warned. I received two warnings and my punishment is clear to me, but his punishment, the punishment of Nikola Savic, is not clear to him. He'll come out for this pay phone to ask you that. The second is my old question – did Aleksandar Vukic suffer from schizophrenia and since, to clarify, he is not a folk MP, will Mr. Tomica Zdravkovic, excuse me, Milosavljevic, be so in healthcare, he can really change his last name, this time answer me? Another question for Mr Milosavljevic. Is this mark 02 in the number of replies sent to me referring to a cabinet or to a service that is responsible for it, and it only signs? This time, I would like Mr Milosavljevic to answer me personally, not through some third parties, who are not obliged to know who is in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7956	You can see the basis for saying criminal measures by looking at the stenogram of the session that was under way when the penalty measures were imposed, as everyone can see from a stenogram that, looking at today's session, they are left without a penalty for non-compliance with Article 103 and for the abuse of Rules of Procedure in reporting after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Radulovic wants to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7957	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I think the amendment submitted by the New Serbia Parliamentary Group is entirely meaningful and should be incorporated into the law on judges. First of all, practice itself tells us that in many cases we have a subjective responsibility of the judges themselves, so it is normal for Article 6(1) to, after saying, "with the work of the Republic of Serbia", add the words: "with the right to refund damage paid by illegal or irregular work by a concrete judge". I also mentioned at the session, and on Thursday, 20, a case that directly points to the unconsciousness of one of the judges, because we have, or we have, a case where there is a complaint from the council that has taken the mandates. This is case number 70/08, which is confirmed by the President of the District Court, or by the judge, the President of the Council, Milica Nikolic, confirms the founding of the appeal and delivers a verdict in favour of the complainant. On the same day, however, in 23.7.2008, at the appeal of a group of council members from the municipality of Brus, the Council chaired by Council President Dragoslava Bisercic, the number of cases is 75/08, a decision taking those committees' terms of office. The very fact that we have two rulings on the same case suggests that one of these judges, in particular, has succumbed to political pressure and has not made the decision properly. I would ask you and Mrs. Minister to take advantage of your right of supervision and to determine the facts and that that decision you consider controversial in this case is one 70/08, and the other, 75/08, given for review, to make a fair, correct decision. I think that, not you, in particular, it is necessary to carry out a review of the procedure and to make the right decision. I think it is beyond the need for citizens to gain security in institutions, because our mouths are full of rights, laws, and that whoever is entitled to this right gets the right to what the citizens have given him. At the same time, I would like to ask one question about the decision to take office. I would ask the competent authorities to determine the facts for the committees, did they really, the day after the decision to withdraw the mandate, sign a contract with the Democratic Party on the regulation of mutual relations between applicants of the electoral list and candidates for the committee, or committee? I think the answer to this question should be that I am a National MP, the chairman of the DS Executive Board, Mr Marko Djurisic, because he made a decision, and in front of the DS was the authorised person who signed it, in Vračar municipality, this contract, the day after his term of office. At the same time, I would point out why it is necessary over time for the court to pass judgment on the basis of facts, because these judgments, in certain environments, give certain people the right to exercise justice in their own way. I brought the case from the Municipality of Alexandrovac, where serious physical injuries were done to Radman Milicevic, a member of the Municipal Council, a member of the DSS Committee, by Srboljub Katancevic. His health has worsened in the meantime. Mr. Radman Milicevic was transferred to the Clinical Centre in Nis and on Friday, 21, a surgical intervention was performed on him. In the town itself and the municipality of Alexandrovac, this phenomenon, in some ways, becomes a rule, because after the bodily injuries to Councillor Milomir Miletic, the attack on President SO Alexandrovac, Mr. Jugoslav Stajkovec, the serious bodily injuries I was talking about, on Friday 21st, also happened that a person had entered into Mr. Stajkovec's possession and threw away propaganda material, i.e. printed material that tried to discredit Mr. Stajkovec. We advocate that personal property is invulnerable, for an independent judiciary, for all those who have in any way caused any illegality to respond. It is therefore necessary to examine certain circumstances. The DSS will support this amendment, for the simple reason that we believe that this is how it is sharpened, that is to say, a much greater responsibility from the judges themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7958	Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is a folk letter from Alexander Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7959	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Madam Minister, Article 6 paragraph 2 of the Judges Act has regulated the responsibility of the judge for the damage caused by his duties as judge. In Article 2, paragraph 2 states: "When the Constitutional Court's final decision, a judicial decision, i.e. a settlement before a court or other competent authorities, finds that the damage has been caused by deliberate or extreme negligence, the Republic of Serbia may ask the judge for compensation of the amount paid." The proposal for this amendment is to say "intentionally or with extreme negligence", they say, "the judge will bear the legal consequences, according to the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia", the existing text "Republic of Serbia", then deletes the word "can" and continues to read "ask the judge for compensation for the amount paid". That supplement and correction is necessary because the non-connection of intentionally caused damage, or damage caused by extreme negligence, with the Criminal Code and criminal liability amnesty amnests the judge of criminal liability, because 'intentionally caused or damage caused by extreme negligence' in the performance of the official duty are the elements of certain criminal acts prescribed by the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia and, if that law applies to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it must be imperative for judges, in particular, that possible abuse in the exercise of judicial function has a special connotation. When it comes to deliberately causing damage, it is said that the most serious crimes in which the intention is expressed, which in a criminal and legal sense is a direct imagination, as the most difficult form of wine, and there must not be any discussion about the existence of a crime and the criminal responsibility of any person or judge. Also, the damage caused by extreme negligence is an integral part of the beings of certain crimes, with it being possible, possibly, to facilitate the form of wine, but there must not be any discussion about the existence of a crime and the criminal responsibility of any person, nor of the judge. If there is a criminal offence in concrete situations, it cannot be said in any case that the Republic of Serbia can ask the judge for compensation for the amount paid, which is why the amendment deletes the word "can" and states "will ask". It is obvious that there can be no alternative in this position to the collection of damage paid by the Republic of Serbia, unlike that of the 1st member. I hope the arguments I have made are sufficient for the ruling majority to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7960	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. The time available to the NS Parliamentary Group is 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7961	I'm going to talk a little bit more about motivation for this amendment. So, in an effort to restore trust in the institutions of the system, and, on the other hand, to restitute a value system that insists on taking personal responsibility for the mistakes made, especially if they are deliberately caused or caused by extreme negligence, we felt that an amendment to Article 6 was necessary. Proposal for a law on judges. One thing is that the Republic of Serbia can ask the judge to pay the amount paid, and the other is that they will. There's a lot of things that are possible, but it doesn't seem to be real. To pull the parallel of this with already famous warrants against the terrorist troika Thaci - Cheku - Haradinaj. Not only can the Republic of Serbia, but Serbia's MUP has launched red warrants for this troika, but red warrants for KLA leaders are long gone on the official site of the police organisation, and were removed after Hashim Thaci and Agim Ceku were taken into Budapest and Ljubljana airports, and then immediately released after political interventions in 2002 and 2003. The warrants for Thaci and Ceku were issued by the County Court in Pristina, moved to Nis, and by Haradinaj, the district court in Peća, moved to Leskovac. The same courts are the only ones in charge of their withdrawal. Danica Marinkovic, the district court's investigative judge in Pristina, is the person who launched the warrants for Thaci and Ceku, but she never asked for their withdrawal, according to her own testimony. On the issue of the Assembly Committee on Defence and Security, as well as my personal question, with an accompanying photo from the joint performance of Mr Tadic and Thaci at the Socialist International Congress, which I gave from this speaker personally to Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, the minister said, all of you are witnesses, that warrants are active and central Interpol, but are obviously not being carried out, whatever that means. It's a story about how something that has to be, can be, and doesn't necessarily mean. What is the matter with that—the court can seek? Probably, that sentence ends with that famous little morgen. If the courts and the Ministry of the Interior haven't pulled red warrants for the greatest living terrorists, then it's really impossible that Interpol did it on its own. Instead of being arrested immediately by terrorists Thaci, Ceku and Haradinaj and disabled by any political action, they are protected as if they were American citizens, and warrants are valid with Serbia only to meet marketing needs. Therefore, the Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed from Kosovo and Metohija, rightly, cannot be satisfied with the statement by Minister Dacic that the warrants remain in force. Experience shows that the suspicions of members of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed by the KiM are fully justified, as 2108 Shipatarian terrorists were released from freedom between 2001 and 2003. So, as Mr. Simo Spasic, president of the Association, said, concerning international arrest warrants against Thaci, Ceku and Haradinaj, members of the Association will request confirmation of everything spoken in recent days in writing, black on white, with the seal of the MUP and all relevant authorities and with the signature of responsible persons. It is interesting that Interpol's arrest warrants do not apply to KLA criminals, and are in force for Serbian generals and, often, victims. Mr. Miroslav Markicevic, deputy head of the New Serbia Parliament Club and member of the Assembly Security Committee, has already expressed the New Serbia position, saying that if the warrant was not withdrawn by the court, but by someone on behalf of the state, it is not only criminally responsible, but has committed the act of high treason itself. Whether Hungarians and Slovenians released Thaci and Ceku after their arrest, that is their business, but we, as a responsible state, must not allow them to walk freely around the world. Speaking of personal responsibility, who, on the basis of which and how did he free these 2108 Shipatarian terrorists from Serbian prisons, and especially the Mazrek brothers, Bekim and Ljuana, who were sentenced to 20 years for crimes against Serb civilians in Klecka? They admitted that, after the killing of the machine, they were cutting the axes with Serb civilians parts of the body. So please think about this and think about this amendment. It is very important to determine and accept personal responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7962	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Minister, I think it would be necessary to accept this amendment and I think it would fit perfectly in this Article 6, where it is said "or by extreme indifference" to add "the judge will bear the legal consequences according to the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia", and this Republic of Serbia may, not "can", but "will ask the judge for compensation of the amount paid". You remember, Madam Minister, that a few days ago, when these laws were in principle, I presented the information, among other things, by the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, concerning the number of cases that had become obsolete, related to courts and prosecutors. He was a little late for that answer, but it's better than ever, as our people say, and I think this is an excellent material that the Ministry can serve to determine some indisputable facts when it comes to municipal and county courts. There's another interesting thing. There's no case here that's out of date in the D.A.'s office. It's just amazing. That now raises the question of whether this report that we have received is true and that we should accept as a response from the Ministry of Justice, that we are no moment in our position to suspect that it is true. Madam Minister, you were present when SRS MP Vjerica Radet presented the information related to this prosecutor Vukcevic, who has been prolonging one case for seven years. You even had a photocopy of the folder on which it was entered, from date to date, when that case was sought. Now I seriously doubt this is true. This says that this is an incomplete report, that you delivered only a report relating to municipal and county courts. It says, as regards the part of your request concerning how the number of cases mentioned above has become obsolete, whether the reasons why the cases have become obsolete and whether there have been any crimes, you state here – violation of the law by the judges and the public prosecutor and his deputy from Article 360, unwitting work in the service, Article 361. The criminal code, and whether or not the responsibility of those persons with their list has been established. You're saying we're informing you that the above-mentioned report doesn't have the information required. Then why do you need this report? Madam Minister, this report is completely groundless. We can see from this the number of cases that are out of date, but not what is essential and what I've been paying attention to, and that's to see what are the crimes in which the courts, where the prosecutors are concerned, come up with some data. Here, I was in the afternoon debate with the data on the watch of that Zoran Trifunovic, the DS financier, who walked out of court, nicely. You know, they don't care if they get convicted in court, because that conviction will never be carried out, or it won't come in a position to judge them at all, because someone's gonna let them get out of court. This number of cases for the Ministry should be valuable, but keeping in mind that you must also have cases related to the prosecution. I remember, there were several times in the media how many cases were out of date in the D.A.'s office. Approximately, it's a kind of stock market, where it's known exactly how much it costs for a public prosecutor to get the case to court at all. I repeat, I know how many cases, criminal charges have been handed over to the SRS without ever seeing the light of the day or not being processed, not because they are not legally based on facts or on valid evidence, but because politics determine whether the prosecution will react or not. The report you gave may, at least for a start, serve in some way as a kind of indicator, or take certain steps based on this report. For example, the District Court area in Belgrade. What falls into the eyes first is one number of municipal courts. I understand, there are courts where there are a lot of cases, but there's no reason for them to grow old. It is simply not the interest of the State and the Ministry of Justice to be in that situation that a certain number of cases become obsolete. For Belgrade, it's 1450 items. Imagine what you can find here! That you were running an analysis, so let's see which of these 1450 cases are related to criminal acts. That's what's particularly interesting to us, and then, based on this data, you see that there's a number of municipal courts that kind of precedes the number of cases that are obsolete. First municipal court in Belgrade – 254; Second – 148; Third – 368. When you look at the territories that cover, you have to do some sort of analysis, to see how many citizens fall under which municipal court. Fourth municipal court – 448; Fifth municipal court – 1500. Total for Belgrade – 1450. The area of the District Court in Valjevo, compared to this, has a relatively solid figure of 127 items that have become obsolete. The Vranj District Court area, compared to Belgrade – 118, also solidly. In Zajecar, compared to Belgrade, this is negligible, only 39 cases. In Zrenjanin – 32, even better data. In Jagodina – 68, in the King – 83. Now we get to Kragujevac. It immediately falls into the eyes of the Municipality Court in Kragujevac – 206, a total of 263. Let's remind ourselves, it wasn't that long ago, we were reporting information related to these district court rulings, regarding the mandates of the SRS. Here, you see, when you cross those two data, it turns on certain signal lights that indicate that some things aren't right. You would have to carry out an analysis based on the number of citizens covering, or territory, etc., but this figure speaks of some things that should warn the Ministry of Justice to take certain steps on this basis. Don't tell me you're only against eight judges and 1430 out of date cases, or I have to believe that the Justice Department is working as well as the courts. As our people have long found a good saying, he says – they work by effect: I do to you, you do to me, and that effect can be measured in various currencies, etc., or things, real estate. That's what you've got at that bankruptcy mob and all these mobs. You have the opportunity to run an analysis based on simple data, which we only come up with based on this law on the availability of information. It is someone who wants some work to be done, wants to show the citizens of Serbia that there is a possibility, both among ordinary people and citizens, that some things are being launched, which is yet to be expected by the authorities. If you compare these two things, then you objectively come to the conclusion that there is no such desire with the authorities, because if this is initiated by those who are not in charge of this and this happens, then we conclude that there is no desire in the Ministry of Justice to take advantage of all the possibilities that you have under the law that you can very accurately and properly assess, that you have complete analysis and that you take appropriate steps based on it. Then it would mean that you have to make decisions based on quality, and then there are no politically similar judges, there are not those judges who, when Dragan Gilas tells them – well, now you have to make such judgments, make such a verdict, they are not interested in the law, they are not interested in the Constitution, they are not interested in anything; they judge as Dragan Gilas or some other political powermaker tells them. Madam Minister, as Minister, you have to make sure that you allow such things as little as possible, to shorten, which you would say, that you hit them on the fingers. How are you gonna do that? By calling those you have data for, to study, to check, to see, and based on all these elements, for those you think are responsible, you start certain things and, in accordance with the law, you start bringing courts into a system that allows this country to slowly deal with the problems it faces. This is a particularly big problem, which has created a belief among our citizens that citizens are not all the same and that this country does not apply to all citizens the same. Some people answer, some people don't respond. Who's not answering? One who has money, one who is tied to power, one who has the ability to let someone in power avoid legal responsibility. District Court area in Kruševec – 96. It's not a small number either, but when you take the Kragujevac, this is an extremely small number. There are twice as many in Kragujevac as in Kruševec. In Leskovac – 55, solidly, when you compare some other dishes. District Court in Negotina – 68. I wouldn't want to go unwarranted, the Court of Nis - 34, too, compared to this data, relatively solid number. District Court in Novi Pazar – 59, let's say it can be tolerated. Take care now, district of the District Court in Novi Sad, Madam Minister, District Court in Novi Sad – 237 outdated cases. It is a court from which Zoran Trifunovic, a financier of Boris Tadic and DS, who damaged the state of Serbia for several million, walked as a free citizen, though charged with extremely great financial damage to the state of Serbia. How is it possible that the District Court in Novi Sad has 237 cases that are obsolete? Just this example to take, just this example. How many cases are there that are out of date? To see who they are, to see the connection. You'll be in a position to start solving the most important things for our country, which is the work of the judiciary, the prosecution and the courts. The biggest affairs in this country haven't been initiated yet because of this. Because politics has the power to control the prosecution and control the courts. I have to finish. This time is running out. District Court in Pancheva – 156. It's not a little bit, but when you look at Novi Sad, this is an extremely good piece of information. The area of the Municipality Court in Pogorevec has 26 pending cases. How is that possible? What are the reasons? What kind of objects are these? What's behind this? District Court in Prokuplje – 18 cases, perfect. The area of the Pirot District Court... (President: 15 minutes and 30 minutes. It wouldn't be correct, because of these courts, not to read all the data. Pirot, either we don't have the data, or there's no out-of-date items. It's a qualification for people who work in the pyrotical justice system, so that they can progress on that basis and rely on people like this. And to be a benchmark for other judges? The Smederev District Court has 42 cases. In Somboro - 39. District Court in Sremska Mitrovica – 165 cases. Look at Novi Sad, and look at Sremska Mitrovica, and ask yourselves immediately: what is this? What are the reasons, Madam Minister? Look at these two district courts, almost 370 pending cases, and a total of 722 unsolved cases in Sremska Mitrovica. It's things I just can't do like this. Obsolete – eaten by a donkey wolf, and nothing. It can't stay like this without that move the Ministry can take. This is a story only because of Serbian MPs and citizens, but it will not do any good if the ministry does not, under the law, what it is authorized to do and what it has to deal with. In Subotica – 91 items, in Užica – 72, Čačka – 32. District Court in Šapec – 40. Especially problematic cases that have become obsolete in the district court. The district court, by the hierarchy, you should know that, I'm a layman, should be preceded by quality and by law, and he's preceding the number of pending cases. Shut up about it. This isn't yesterday. If you don't take certain steps and let the public know, then this is completely meaningless. A total of 4,300 outdated cases in courts, but unfortunately, we have no information as much as is in the prosecution. I'm sure there are a lot more cases that are out of date in the D.A.'s office. That is why it would be necessary for you to accept this amendment. I apologize and thank you, Mrs. Comic. I've always had the sympathy for your way of chairing the Serbian Parliament. You have shown a sense of responsibility for the citizens of Serbia, to hear this information that I think is extremely important, to gain insight into what is happening in our judiciary. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7964	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric. The time available to the New Serbia parliamentary group is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I am reporting with the desire that, however, we get enough sympathy on the part of the ruling majority to support this amendment, because this amendment makes sense in the fact that the explanation that it has been rejected is a little bit, I can't say pointlessly, but it's not what it calls for. It was rejected by reason that it was the Institute of Immunity of Judges contained in Article 151. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you really thought about the immunity of judges, then Article 90 of this same bill would delete attitude one, because it actually disciplines judges in the way that their basic dignity collapses. This is where the judge's responsibility is sought for a committed crime with intent, and the intention always implies premeditation, or a crime committed out of ignorance. Both are inadmissible in court practice. The judge can't protect any immunity from that. Everything else contained in Article 90(1) is what the judge should protect his immunity from, and we have submitted amendments to that article. For the sake of the public of Serbia, what the Constitution says in Article 151 on judicial immunity reads as follows: "The judge cannot be called to account for the opinion expressed or to vote in the decision-making process unless it is a criminal offence by the judge". This amendment is currently scheduled to implement this until the end. Thank you, if you show understanding of this amendment for which we have presented enough arguments to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7966	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Slobodan Maras together submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are before us another in a series of legal sets that, on the basis of the number of amendments submitted, as well as the opinion of the professional public, will obviously not be a solution that will contribute to the real repair of the situation in this important area for the functioning of the rule of law. On behalf of the SRS Group MP, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7(1). The proposal for a law on judges, which, referring to the association of judges, reads as follows: 'Article 7(1) says: 'for the protection of their interests', is replaced by the words 'for professional training and counselling'. Madam Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I do not think the judges can be allowed to join in order to protect their interests. The government of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically, has rejected the amendment, explaining that the law and the proposed solution define more fully and more accurately the essence of the judges' right to association. I truly find it inadmissible and I do not see the logical link between this interpretation, because the very formulation of "protection of its interests" is very undefined, disputable and opens up the possibility of different interpretations. What are their own, not to say the personal interests of the judge? As taught by previous negative experiences in the functioning of the judiciary, I am convinced that the proposed government formulation is rather unclear. Given the very purpose of association, including the judge, the proposed amendment would properly regulate the mentioned matter. So, for example, we can come into a situation where the survival of a provision like this can impair and ossage the last few years of frequency, and an unauthorized, phenomenon that a single judge, for example, teaches at individual private law schools and other institutions. In addition, they gain at these private universities of the title of law professors, and thus, since it is an instant profession, acquired by the opposite regulations, they reduce the reputation of the holders of judicial functions and thus strike a blow to the authority of the judiciary. The question arises whether such phenomena make citizens more often subject to judgments written by judicial associates and trainees, instead of judges, since the judges obviously do not have time, since they are preparing for teaching and the same performances. So, teaching professors, judging judges. Judges must serve the people, who choose them by means of an intermediate democracy and on whose behalf, by law, they make decisions. With this proposed solution, it will only be confirmed that the domestic judiciary was a vass, and it is subordinated to the executive authority, so there can be no real independence at all. Even if they were obedient to the interest of dominant political will, the judges would act as individuals by such a legal solution, I would say, an unequal rating, therefore, certainly not as a respectable, separate, independent and rounded branch of government, which should generally be. The proposal for a law on judges, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, states, among other things, that the election of all judges will take place by the end of next year, and that if some of the current judges are not elected, they will cease to be a judge. It's nothing but a mechanism that allows for the elimination of judges without the right criteria. The information works, the number of judges in Serbia is around 2,400 today, so it seems to me that the re-election is, exactly, an attempt to reduce that number, but the problem is in the enormous pressure of the political elite, which has a clear intention of taking judges completely under its control, using numerous mechanisms within the lever of power. I think that, basically, it is important to define precisely the legitimate criteria for proposing and selecting candidates for all judicial and public functions. The status of the judge and the derivative of the judicial office shall be obtained by trusting a limited or permanent term of office. A limited mandate is that given by the National Assembly when judges first elected, and by the provision of Article 147. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the permanent mandate, will be given by the High Judicial Council, when the judge elects at the end of a limited term. Judge-elect, as referred to in Article 55(1). The motion for a law on judges, stands in office at the formal session of all judges in the court they were elected to. Since then, the status of the holder of the state office, such as the MPs, the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, the member of the government, the President of the court, the public prosecutor, the deputy public prosecutor and every other person, for example, the Citizens' Protector, who is elected by the National Assembly or appointed by the Government, has been obtained. All those persons have the status of officials, and they are not civil servants, in order to be in a working relationship, which is, for example, absurd, because it is so explicitly defined by Article 2(2). Law on civil servants, which we discussed a few days ago in the Assembly. The proposal for a law on judges did not even take account of this, and if the case were, its Article 11 would not provide for a judge to exercise labour rights in accordance with the rules governing the rights of the working relationship of the elected persons, if this law is not different. Neither the judge nor the other elected persons can exercise labour rights because they have not even established this relationship, but they can exercise labour-based rights, such as working time, rest, absences etc. So, to recap, if we succeed in these legal solutions, which I clearly doubt, we choose really professional and honest, if we choose for the presidents those who will control the work of judges and associates, who will daily look into the work of judges, judicial associates and other staff, to pass every courtroom, office, to look at the entry and movement of cases, to look for explanations for urgency and others, if at least once a year the National Assembly is considering the work of judges in terms of the urgency and quality of decisions, not in terms of a search of individual decisions, but an annual report on the urgency and number of decisions lifted, only then will there be any assumptions that all current anomalies will be removed. The new law, by itself, is not enough. For example, Article 6 of the proposed law is basically the same as Article 6 of the applicable law on judges, and without it, the state could always ask for compensation from judges, according to the general rules of responsibility. The question is, why didn't she ever do it, and will she do it after the law was passed? If he does so only once, it will be beneficial to act in the direction of the desired goal, increasing the quality of decisions and urgency. Speaking of which, here, I will take the opportunity to re-emerge you from the MPs, as well as the public in Serbia, to introduce to another scandalous decision already mentioned by the District Court in Belgrade, composed of judges: Mirjana Arangelovic, President of the Council, Dusica Marinkovic and Mirjana Ridjski, who, by resolving the appeal filed by Councilman Peso Popovic at the Rakovic City Municipality Assembly, and concerning the termination of the mandate of the former SRS committees, has reached a verdict to reject. You've had the opportunity to hear these few days how it was done, of course, in no way in accordance with the law, and in the town hall of Starship. Now there was something similar in the township of Rakovica, with the fact that there was an even bigger precedent here, because such an agreement, which was not signed by the council, was not even certified in court, but was already the only copy of such an agreement on the termination of the contract carried out in the township of Rakovica, where it is in power, of course, DS, so that it no longer needs to be surprised and the people are aware that the masks fell and that the Serbian "progressal seces" are fierce in the embrace of "bate" Boris Tadic. No matter what heart they try, in all the media, to present themselves in the people as opposition, it's obvious they've been read. In the end, I'm just going to remind myself of the words of academics, Professor Dr. Costa Chavosky, who said, "More than anything else, congratulations are to the judge of soil and the main virtue. What is easily predicted, however, as over the required virtues of the judge is the firmness and perseverance of his character and moral courage to resist temptations and evil." Boris Tadic's regime is a great temptation and evil, and it is on the judges to show strength and courage for the sake of the court of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7968	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The SRS parliamentary group is available for 5.30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I support the amendment of my colleague, Jeremic. I was inspired to report on the amendment to what Mr. Todorovic said earlier – the impact of politics on judicial authorities and the judiciary in general. That's why I think what the proposer says, that judges are asking to be independent and independent, there's nothing. We have a series of evidence for that, and I'll give you one, concrete one. Before this group left the party around Tomislav Nikolic, I trusted Mr. Vukic, not knowing that he would do so, how they prepared the criminal record for him and his brother, who deals with private business. It was a job his brother did - importing secondhand computers, full of boot. His accident wanted that tow truck parked in Old Paz, outside the home of former SUP chief. The Fallen Wolf's brother and politics regulate all that. I entrust it to Vukic, among other things; we have a large file that I have removed, according to Mr. Todorovic's recommendation, at the embassy of a friendly country, is not Russia, so that we do not put everything on Russia. Mrs. Malovic, I highly appreciate you, you are a wonderful woman and I see that you listen carefully to all of us and I don't see you as a party figure at all, I don't know if you're in any party at all, but I want you to hear this. And if it is, it doesn't matter. Mrs. Malovic, the influence of justice policy, is what Mr. Todorovic said. Aleksandar Vukic goes to Boris Tadic's office, still with us, Boris Tadic turns to the MUP, turns to the BIA and says, "Who's packing to Vukic? ". How do you fight political crime, political mafia? To me, this man, the Prince, he is the "yellow", the last man to be arrested. First, the political mafia. It is my responsibility here that Alexander Vukic is at the top of the political mafia. How? There's nothing you can do. He went to Tadic, a political combination – 200,000. I have proof. How will you help me? Will Tadic answer what he gave him in cash? Not Mr. Tadic, someone from the cabinet. That's what happened in Vojislav Kostunica's office. We have evidence that they received money in cash, in hands, Tomislav Nikolic and him. I'll bring it up when the time comes, when that real campaign comes, when they conquer Serbia, to rule over "yellow" and "progressors". Many of my friends on this side aren't MPs, they're ashamed because I showed them something. Why are you involved in this? Mrs. Malovic, listen to this - Zemun. You can introduce a forced administration. A group of criminals, led by Vujic's friend Vujisic Dejan, a Vujke, who now works at Vučić's brother's company, who used to pay interest, then make debts, then do the same at Brother Alexander Vukic's company, because half of the jobs are illegal. He's in some medical equipment. You know, sell a device, you don't give money, he sends gorillas to make money. That's against the law. This guy, with a group of criminals in Zemun, Mrs. Malovic and distinguished fellow MPs, "gets it" these six councilmen. They're good people, poor people. Once there were 100,000 dinars missing to pay taxes to the Administration of Revenue, the other lost the dispute and 150 – court costs. He was talking to us, and we said, "Wait, we're in a crisis now." However, these hurried and immediately paid. (President: 5.30 minutes. People's MP, please... I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure right away. I have to take this out. It's very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7970	I understand you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I remind you that during your previous presentation, you violated Article 103 and thus created the basis for the application of Article 106. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic is trying to get back to me, so I can talk. I refer the MP to the reading of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 27, that the chair of the elders on order at the meeting of the National Assembly and that the discard is prohibited under Rule 104, because it is the basis for giving notice, as a criminal measure, to any MP who does not respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, I ask you to bear in mind that you did not respect Article 103 and that you created the basis for Article 106, and that, despite all of us MPs having immunity, we are very careful when we speak for the speaker views, opinions or data on our own actions. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Please, MP Jadranko Vukovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7971	Now I'm using an ankle. 225 and 226. So, I'm asking the authorities' notice, it doesn't have to be the police minister, the Justice Department should be interested, because it's a matter of purpose, for the authorities of the "progressors" and "yellows" to introduce a forced administration into the municipality of Zemun. I have to tell you what's going on in the Zemun municipality and I'm looking for an explanation as to whether it's legal to ask. So, by order of Alexander Vucic, this Vujisic Dejan, with a group of local land criminals, on the last day, through the Alexander Vukic Col Centre, invites the order of SRS representatives from the Zemun municipality and sends them threatening messages of the following content, I saw a few: "If you show up at a meeting in Zemun municipality, you and your father will be liquidated". It's this little, Bibic's daughter, a child scared, doesn't report a threat to her father, she's afraid for her own life and her father's life. I don't blame her at all. The threat is serious. We're trying, Madam Minister, to get that phone, and we can't. The wolf's got some kind of call center. You know we used to talk about listening devices. He also kidnapped three days in private custody holding six council members. That's kidnapping for me. Mrs. Malovic, he kept them on Avali, at his father's house. That's where the operation was conducted. I managed to get two men to report it to the Zemun SUP. The Zemun SUP application and informs the prosecutor, he says -- we have two people who have been threatened. You know what the prosecutor says - let them file a private report. There's no protection, there's got to be an immediate reaction. These bastards have to be arrested right away. A few years ago, there was a "progressor" who was on the Vucic team, Brana Spacious. That man was in custody for three days and when the past government formed. It's a practice. You can introduce a forced administration, you can, it's your right, this Markovic, for local self-government, but you should have seen when that session was held, the Vucic criminals came to the municipality. However, since we are normal, cultural and law-abiding, we have notified the police, please, come inside and don't let anything happen. There's some cut-outs here. They're darkened. Believe me, I'm sorry we didn't have a camera to take pictures of them. You guys need to talk about this, and I'm gonna finish my presentation. I say responsibly, Mrs. Malovic, I can't give it to you, I wish Alexander Vukic was a man, so he could go out with me on a TV duel. If I didn't prove he was a criminal, I'd hand over my mandate - I'm leaving the Assembly and leaving politics. (President: Three minutes and 30 seconds. He won't do it. I can't give it to you, because he enjoys the protection of Boris Tadic and DS with which he is currently in the extramarital community, and marriage probably follows when elections are held. Thank you, and I'm sorry for making it a little longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7972	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7973	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 9. The draft law on judges, which I have submitted to the amendment, concerns the right to professional training and training of judges on the cost of the Republic of Serbia. It is normal for employees in each profession to have the need to further improve and acquire practical knowledge and skills, and so do the judges, given that the rules are often changed, as well as technology that is increasingly applied during the trial, as well as the functioning of the court in general. The public in Serbia has often been bombarded with news of the abuse of the judge's position, scandalous verdicts, of which man literally raises hair on his head. The government's own representatives, including the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, are talking about 4,500 outdated cases. Is someone gonna answer for that? Is anyone going to be out of a judge's office because of this? If such judges continue to share justice in Serbia, what reform should we expect in the area of justice? Now the question is, how many trainings mentioned in Article 9 can affect the repair of such a devastating state? In the amendment I submitted to the proposal for a law on judges, Article 9(3) suggested that the ally "and" be replaced by the ally "or". The government's explanation says the amendment is not accepted, for the proposed solution does not foresee the possibility of training judges, but lays down conditions for its obligation. We have just proposed a solution to avoid a flat-rate assessment of the need to train judges, because it is illogical that training is mandatory for someone to introduce new techniques of work and, at the same time, to remove the shortcomings in the work of judges observed during the evaluation of his work. That's why you need to put "or" in here, which means training or in order to remove shortcomings in the work of judges, or because of the introduction of new techniques of work; both simply can't. Does this mean that it is just the way to go over the fact that someone is further trained because of what the promoter says, the irregularities observed during the results? Can someone like that still shape the fate of the people, their loved ones, their property, because of the "irregularity" they've seen, or will they be held accountable? It has to be specifically written in the law – training is for that and that, or for that, and this is what it would be like to say about a man at the same time and that he's fat and he's thin and he's beautiful and he's ugly. That is why this amendment should be adopted, because the "or" bounds are, at the moment, determining the conditions for its obligation. Here is the freshest example that gathers the political scene of Serbia, as well as the public in Serbia. Literally, there is no municipality in the Republic of Serbia where there has been no theft of the SRS' parliamentary mandates. After the periphery of municipalities, the problems move, by law enforcement, into district courts. There, I would say, is a legal circus, where judges, for the sake of their own known reasons, are making judgments that are scandalous and are harshly violating the Law on Local Elections and the rights of political parties that participated in the local elections on 11 May 2008. How is it possible for almost identical judgments to be reached in over 20 district courts, and in Belgrade, Kragujevac and Jagodina to decide exactly the opposite, although complaints have been filed, mainly the same and addressed to other district courts? Who, in particular, needs training now? Are the judges of over 20 district courts who have returned their mandates to the SRS by law, or the judges of these three courts, to which the font of letters is important, and where is the point, the comma, and what is the time outside and, worst of all, whether they believe it or not, according to the Rules of Procedure of the SO, and not under the Law of Local Elections? In order to sound to you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, that, let's say, we baptize this bill as a proposal for a Rules of Procedure on Judges, or Rules of Procedure on Public Procurement, or Rules of Procedure on High Council of Justice, etc. Someone doesn't mind, and I get the impression that those of us who complain to the county courts to get the SRS' kidnapping mandates back, we need to be under some glass bell. Now let's go back to the information on the number of outdated items. Has anyone collected damage that has been done both to the state and to the citizens because of the statute of limitations? Did anyone remember at the Ministry to see what the judges were, who were doing this to the prosecutors, who were doing the obsolescence? Come out with that information in front of the MPs and the public in Serbia. You'll see it's billions of dinars. Unfortunately, nothing to anyone. That's why the verdict on the 1,000-dollar traffic violation will not be outdated, but an outdated case against the Kolesars and the $2,200,000. That Trizon, etc., etc. Now, you train these judges under Article 9 to remove the shortcomings that have helped them to evaporate all the millions worth of objects through training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7974	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Srboljub Zivanovic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7975	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wanted to get back to you before, when MP Dragan Colic, otherwise a traitor from a group of citizens, came out for this pay phone, calling the SRS, and know that by yesterday he was a Serbian radical. If it hadn't been for the SRS and Professor Vojislav Seselj, you'd still be at a hospital porter in Smederev. Ladies and gentlemen, you know I'm not a lawyer, I'm a technical person, but thanks to the teacher, thanks to my great ideologist, thanks to the man who's the bravest, greatest politician in the world, the man who's in the international field of justice today. You laugh, but know well that what you want, to save Serbia, is actually done by Professor Vojislav Seselj, the man who showed and proved that no modern political system today can function in the world without radical criticism. It is, in fact, a struggle against political delusions, political mystifications, and even political indoctrinations. What have you done for eight years? In these eight years, what you promised in the five-eyed revolution, you have become a conservative party, which camps on lies, rights and crime. It is, in fact, your staticness, that's what your promise, which for all this time, when the political elections are, you promise to the citizens, but I ask you, what have you done? You didn't do anything. You didn't do anything, I'm sorry that the minister left to help one of the world's greatest politicians, Professor Vojislav Seselj, as a state, as a government -- to save Serbia, to save itself from the greatest evil, which is the globalism that has imposed on us America, normally, and the West. You have seen the objectives of the European Union. Their goals are, above all, to be acknowledged. You, in fact, are now going to EULEX, in a very perfidious way, some six points that were not at all in the procedure in the Republic Parliament. Whose six points are they supposed to represent in the UN, which is, say, in the service of Eulex, in the service of the Ship's terrorists? Those six points were not here, and my colleague Krasic, a man who is an important feather, said well, is one of the biggest lawyers, probably in Serbia -- that these six points, to be decided by Boris Tadic, are deciding the political parties gathered around the DS. It is, in fact, a van of the party, which only helped to form such a freakish power that plagues Serbia. What did you do in eight years? Look, for this month, and two, so November and December, you expect 5,000 people to be fired from work. Did you promise that in the election campaign? You think this global crisis, which allegedly has not arrived in Serbia yet, will come to you at any moment, so that it could endanger this great power, or brilliant rule, of this 'yellow' political party, or, as Mr. Dragan Todorovic said, this 'yellow company'. But, you know, you see through these laws what you've done -- you've done one thing, to call him an orphan in these laws, where, when privatized, you've left over a million people without a job, destroyed companies. What are you supposed to do about this financial crisis tomorrow? Look what's happening on that legal field to a tortured peasant. You allowed him, through a donation, to import various or fertilized throats, or waste material, but after that, you're harassing him in court, because he's not able to deal with it so he can come back, because you destroyed him. I would, however, ask Mr. Milivojevic, you don't know, but these days Serbia's "humble" hero, cattle, so he probably wants to wear an earring at his wedding, probably wants to be marked as a man in the area. You know, it's also important that the construction mafia that has been harassing Serbia, which has destroyed Serbia, is certainly 70, 80% of your officials in the mafia, from the yellow company. Do you wonder, and you've seen on TV, ordinary citizens whine, because they can't legally solve the problem with that construction mob. That's why you don't fight in Serbia today, with the help of these biggest traitors. You know the Janitors were the worst. It's those Janitors, the one-out-and-out-two. Because the biggest mobster is, as my colleague Jadranko Vukovic said, I must, unfortunately, mention his name, in fact, Alexander Vukic – radioactive waste number two. He's trying to defend criminals today. You must know, when he starts talking about people being honest and honest, they must be the biggest thieves and criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7976	People's MP, you violated your presentation, Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have been patiently waiting for you to, in any way, in any part of your presentation, carefully follow the course of your speech and try to sense what is next, connect it to the amendment to article 9 submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. In no way have you followed the Rules of Procedure, Rule 103. In your presentation, you brutally injured Article 104 - disrespect for the National Assembly, the demeaning of all of us sitting here, for reasons known to yourselves, that you have more rights than any other 249 MPs who have to respect the Rules of Procedure and all its members. I give you my first warning, and I ask you to take care of the article the second time. 103, 104, 106, and all those members who make us respect the Rules of Procedure. There's a word from the People's Parliament of the Witch of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7977	Mrs. Komic, it is a wonder that you have endured all day without your true performance in that place, which is a violation of Articles 104 and 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You've already broken both members. As you said, you were now very patient, so you let a colleague of Zivanovic say what he said and, when he came to the scene, it occurred to you that you could, however, apply Article 106 to give him a reminder, or I don't already know which reminder you made. So, I have been patiently controlling myself a little while ago not to report to the Rules of Procedure, when you broke the Rules of Procedure while your colleague, Srboljub Zivanovic, spoke, but now, indeed, we can't allow it anymore. I don't know how it didn't occur to you, Mrs. Comic, when you received this report, I don't know if, otherwise, the fellow MPs paid any attention to this paper, which we never received in our life like this – to distract Vlatko Ratkovic that what he wrote had nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. It is said that the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 24 November 2008, discussed the amendment with an amendment to the proposal for a law on judges, which the government submitted. On the basis of Art. 79th and 147th, the Committee submits a report. The Committee has examined the amendment with the correction, which is on Article 44. The bill, which is unknown, was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic and considered legally possible. Did anyone understand what this Legislative Committee report said? This is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is, in fact, a mockery of the MPs, or the citizens of Serbia, because it comes from Vlatko Ratkovic, because it comes from the 'yellow'. The MP who talks about the amendment, I turn to you, who knows which way, attention, Mrs. Komic, when he talks about the amendment, speaks in the way and words he chooses. Its intention is to convince the assembly majority to vote in favour of the amendment, or against the amendment, if it opposes the amendment. Srboljub Zivanovic estimated that what he was saying was the best way. Time's up, so I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7978	There's no injury to Article 27 or Article 104. If MP Srboljub Zivanovic had touched the amendment with one single word, not a single word, because the basis for which he received the word debate in particular, and for the amendment to Article 9 submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic, everything else would have been a style and – the man was a style, however, he did not. He had time, I listened carefully, expecting at least one sentence that was missing. We all have equal rights. As every MP must respect the Rules of Procedure, so must the MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). As for your remarks on the report, I can only ask for the explanation of MP Vlatko Ratkovic, but my ageing as a member is 27, so I think he can explain what it is. The text is unclear to me, but I agree that someone else can be vague. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7979	Mrs. Comić, I must call on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because if you read that article, you will see that you have really exaggerated. What's this about? I have not recognized a single word in the presentation of Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, who has injured the dignity of the National Assembly or any of the MPs in the National Assembly. Whether there's a link between his exposure and what's the subject of the amendment to Article 9(3) that Radish has submitted, I don't think you're absolutely competent to carry out that aesthetic assessment of the way he's exhibited. What style figures an MP will use as a congregation speaker to make his presentation on the subject of the amendment serious, it is a matter of free choice. I would remind you that, a long time ago, when, because of the fact that we have only two channels, we were forced to follow the art skating contests, we had the opportunity to listen to Milka Babovic who faithfully transmitted, translating from English, reviews for the artistic impression given by judges to some skaters. However, this is the National Assembly, there is no skating here. As far as skiing is concerned, when it comes to ski resorts, they're all sown. All Serbian citizens are also sown about how they are sown, who sown them and who pulls them by the nose, said Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic. You may like it, you may not like it, I probably don't like some parts of its exposure, but I get the impression that citizens of the Republic of Serbia are increasingly watching RTS, the Second Channel, and are increasingly transferring to other channels, because this is an opportunity to find out what reality is in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there is a business restriction, where we can't talk about it, when you're sharing justice, whether you're wrong or not. I'm not talking about it, but I get the impression, and I share that impression with most of the MPs present in the National Assembly, that you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly, by the very fact that you have found it appropriate to reprimand an MP because of a style that shows something that is important to the amendment. Did you recognize that? Let me remind you, the amendment is that the "and" ally is being changed by the "or." Note the text of the amendment. If you in exchange for "I" and "or" found that Srboljub Zivanovic has so hurt the dignity of the Republic of Serbia, then I think there is something wrong with your perception of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7980	There's no breach of Article 104. With insight into the stenogram, you will see that MP Srboljub Zivanovic did not mention in any single word that he was taking part in the debate in particulars, and according to the amendment to Article 9, and the measure of caution for style was not given, but because he violated Article 103 and did not speak of what is on the agenda, and this is the debate in the details of the amendment to Article 9. Anyone else want a word? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: I am not satisfied with the answer. ) The MP is not pleased and I pray that in the day of the vote, the Assembly declares whether I hurt Article 104 when I said that MP Srboljub Zivanovic hurt the article. 103th and 104th, and that's why he was warned. On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapcevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Jovan Palalic, then MPs Dragan Todorovic and Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7981	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, has no doubt that in this set of judicial laws, where the jurisdiction of the High Council of the judiciary is defined, is given significant authority to this body, which represents the development of what was the High Council of Justice, introduced into our 2001 judicial system of laws. A good part of these powers has been defined by the very Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the High Council of the judiciary plays a significant role in defining the overall policy in the position of judges, the material position of judges and all that is relevant for the work of the judicial system. One of the important responsibilities is the question – how the High Judicial Council sees the number of judges needed to perform judicial duties and exercise judicial authority in Serbia, what needs for judicial staff are, simply, the creation of a strategy that defines how many judges need Serbia's judiciary. With this amendment, my colleague Milan Lapcevic wishes to point out that one such important decision, when it comes to determining the number of judges and judges of the jury, for the exercise of the judicial authority, cannot be made without consent, consultation and consent and the Ministry of Finance, where, within the framework of the overall fiscal policy of the Republic of Serbia, income is defined, fiscal policy is conducted and the extent to which that number of judges can be adequately resolved in terms of material issues and all that means compensation for the work of judges. The ministry of justice plays an important role in defining the common policy in the area of justice. We believe that these two ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, must have an impact on making such an important decision. We think that the High Council of the judiciary, in addition to all the competences it has when it comes to the way the choice is made in this important body and the fact that it will, to the most extent, be made by judges, i.e. will have a majority, such an important decision cannot be made without a clear insight into the possibility of funding the judiciary and the judges and the fact that all of this must be in agreement with the justice ministry's policy. Regardless of what we have been in favour of giving broad jurisdiction to the High Council of the Judiciary and that is, the fact that it is defined in the Constitution, that it is a good step for the judiciary to stand alone and its material position in this regard, we think that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance must participate in this decision together. This should by no means mean a reduction in the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, some influence that would be bad for the overall policy defined by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, but both the Government and the Ministry must have a clear picture, a clear strategy of what human needs in the judiciary are. In that sense, we believe that this amendment is not to the detriment of the overall concept defined in this law and can raise the quality of making such an important decision, a strategic decision, so I suggest that the ministry accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7982	The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that this amendment, in any case, should be accepted, regardless of the reasoning given by the Government, in particular, in the way that the Government is trying to explain all the things that are related to some of the reforms that we started after 2000, or in 2001, because it says - the amendment is not accepted, because this would be contrary to the constitutional position of the High Council of Justice as an independent and independent body. What authority in our country is independent and independent? How many agencies have you set up since 2001, all in terms of reform and all in order to bring Europe closer, or European values? Among other things, you've established the Anti-Corruption Agency, and I'm asking you, when have you respected anything, any initiative that came from the Anti-Corruption Agency? You only remember how much trouble it was with Mladjan Dinkic, among other things, the minister will confirm it, and she sent a letter to the justice ministry asking that this law be withdrawn from the procedure, because it was not in the public debate, because they think it is not good, because it is not only not going to eliminate or reduce corruption, but it will, even, speed it up. Has one of the MPs been informed by the minister and is anyone in any way respected? You're not interested in it, you're going to Europe, you're promised in Europe, and that's with the stick and carrots, you're being loaded on a donkey, and with the help of carrots they're trying to bring you in. I have a feeling your ass is taking you to Europe. I can't help but get a different impression. They show the donkey carrot, he turns to Europe, tends to carrots, he returns to the right path. I don't mean anything bad here when it comes to donkeys; Mrs. Comic is from Vojvodina, she knows there's no more serious shepherd without a donkey, because if she didn't have donkeys, there'd be no herds for free. He is the one who leads them and has an extremely significant role. That's right, they show numerous examples, unfortunately, of our "black" practice and everything that's happened to us. I read part of the material in the morning, and this second part of the material, as you like to say, shows in a transparent way how harmful you are when it comes to individuals, and it is a huge number of people, who, within the government, are ruthlessly robbing Serbian citizens. Not only do I have the material, but people have already announced themselves and say it is nothing, only when we bring new material tomorrow will you see how G17 plus and Bojan Kristo rob this state of Serbia. I will now give you some additional examples of how this robbery is done and how every opportunity is used to rob the country ruthlessly. It says here – the decision to pay off the severance payment to the Director General of the Public Enterprise "Aerode Nikola Tesla", the previous director, who was replaced by Bojan Kristo. The director received an severance of 15 average earnings from the Public Enterprise, Nikola Tesla, and when calculated, it turns out to be 1,275,594 dinars. What's terrible about all this, this is legal. Technically, there's nothing you can do about it. Done under the law, the decision made and the former director receives 1,273,000 severances, or 15 personal incomes. It's not small, but there are other options as Bojan Kristo and this country robs Serbia's state and uses every opportunity to use it mercilessly to the limits possible. You see, they have the right to represent. I've been reading to you how many teams there are when it comes to the public firm Nikola Tesla, and since they haven't delivered within the time limit, they had to deliver, at the request of the Commissioner for Information. The public company Nikola Tesla Airport has approximately 11302,000 representation costs. It's one kind of team, and there's another. How are they robbing us? Through cards, credit cards from various banks, visa cards that they receive and which they have the right to use, all paid for by our poor, troubled Serbian citizen, who is squirming and who has no chance of coming out of the situation he is in, because you are ruthlessly robbing him. They say – the cost of the "Pireus Visa" team's 2007 payment card, director, and one director Bojan Kristo, because he was short in 2007, came in November, not yet developed man, only 138,498 dinars. Previous – 137,624. I made a mistake, it worked out in two months, and the one in 10 months. It shows – investment activity, 314. There's more of them, but they've split them in action. Traffic activity, they're modest, 22,000. Work of marketing commercial business – 231.430 dinars. The work of the technique – 24,000, safety work – 184.406. What are these security teams doing with a visa card? Legal and personnel work – 41,000. Economic and financial performance – 116,784. Total, 1.215,400 dinars. But there's a lot of interesting data when you look at the bills on the 'visa' card, which is what it's all paid for. It says – 105,390 dinars, 31.1.2007, it seems to me before the New Year, perhaps extended, but the account was written on January 31st. February 28 – catering services by travel order, em went on a trip, got logs, but via 'visa' pays catering services – 242 000. I only list catering services – 148,626; 128,299; 133,160; 127,859; 76,543; 120,756;107,829; 67,709; 52,510 dinars. There's an interesting piece of information, and this says a lot about Bojan Krisht and Nicola Tesla Airport. It shows – 3.186 dinars, costs for buying professional literature employees. What do they need with expert literature? You can see they're experts at archiving people's couples and people's property. The sum of the sumarum, when all of this is summed up, turns out to be 2,314.195 dinars only by the 'visa' that was won at the Pireus Bank. But there are still banks, they're not just burning to one bank, there's this hip hop, as it's called, the bank. Also, Milovanovic Miodrag, chairman of the board of directors, has such a team and has compensation, which is not small, 312 thousand... What a man, he gets through, they beat it, so he can't take care of it. Krstic Emilia – 182.840 dinars, something familiar with this name, I can't remember now. Vučićevic Dragan – 308,000, Kostic Milorad – 268,000, Jovanovic Slobodan – 175,000, all naked thieves – 1.247.000. Do I need to read you the specification of this new bank? They dominate catering services. I can't read to you because of the time, but I guess... Look out, caterers, what's interesting here? Watch out, three accounts, or there are more, but two bills for catering services, 173,653 dinars, second account – 179,694 dinars. All right, people, come on, you all have families, you get paid, so who's the one who can spend this much money on catering services? Who are we paying in this country? What did they eat for this money? What pigeons, they could have gone to St. Mark's Square, so they'd have the money to pick up all the pigeons. This is just amazing. We warn you all the time, a year and a half of the SRS is talking about the director's salaries in public enterprises, agencies, boards, but you don't care. You simply have your leadership, you have been sent to this Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which you would say, neither guilty nor in debt to a large extent, you have no idea about this. In a way, we have a common destiny. Here are the individuals that the top, the political top of the party sends to places like this, this is a ruthless robbery. We call you here, "supplying" you every day, because there's no other way, so how do we shave them dry, I want them to whine, we need to be a little bit gentle. You have to ask your leadership, ask your coalition partners a question – do you know about God, people? Just take these numbers that we've read today, related to only one man, to Bojan Krishte from G17, get that together, so you'll see how much money it is and what a pest it is. I'm not gonna break up with Boyna Krishte until you get all the information. You just have to get to know each other and know everything so you don't... Well, here, I'm giving you documents here, it's not a story, it's a saying, I mean one way or another. These are indisputable facts. If you don't respond, you're accomplices, you're just like them, except yours are in other public enterprises and, like, "my hand." I'll read to you only what kind of man it is, but for the next amendment, regarding the "State Lotrium of Serbia", to see how he robbed the "State Lottery of Serbia". You still keep that man in the place where he is, and Mladjan Dinkic says today – I will not give Bojan Krist at any price. Now I'm asking a question, and I'm guessing you're asking yourself -- what are the reasons, who's Bojan Kristo, what does Bojan Kristo have to do to get you over it, to get G17 across that and keep quiet all the time, no matter what the data is, how much and how much has been robbed by this country and the citizens of this country? When the new amendment comes, I'll show you that he was destroying the State Lotrium of Serbia, right after he was expelled from the Management Board of the Galenika Company. Thank you and forgive this overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7984	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic advertised the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7985	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Member of Rules of Procedure 226. I went out for this pay phone 15 days ago and asked a parliamentary question concerning what was going on in the Voždovac Municipality Assembly and what was happening there about the formation of local self-government. That's not what I got the answer to. Now I'm going to ask public institutions another kind of question. During this year, a total of 11m euros were spent in the Republic of Serbia to curb ambrosia and destroy ticks and mosquitoes. The departments responsible for these types of jobs are the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry and the Ministry of Health. As I turned my budget for 2008, somewhere in the position of these two ministries, these items, these programs are gone, so the money has been spent. My question is, from what budget position have these 11m euros been spent? It's about the next one. The companies that did these jobs were "Cycloning" Novi Sad, DOO "Miva" Indjija, "Bio-ecological centre" Zrenjanin and "Agromin" Rumenka. There are hundreds of millions of dinars, so it's 735,446,720 dinars and when VAT is added, which is 132,380,409 dinars, it turns out to be 867,827,120 dinars. If we were a country like Canada, if we were sprayed by strategic bombers, we wouldn't be spending this much money. When you look for where that money was, in the ministries responsible for these kinds of jobs, you can't find anything, not one item, not in that head, not in the division, not in the economic classification. My parliamentary question is: In what way have these companies been chosen for this type of business and was there a public competition when these companies were chosen? Why do the departments in their positions not have items for this type of intended work? I hope I get an answer to the question. I used to ask about the So Leader and some other topics, simply, you don't have an answer, or the answer is completely unsavoury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7986	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226, and in relation to Article 109. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At today's session, the Management Board has taken decisions to punish a number of SRS MPs. Among them is my smallness, which is fined by a fine of 16,000 dinars for taking away words, in accordance with the article. 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is a session of the National Assembly since 26 September 2008. I'm going to read a whole stenogram of what I was saying that day. I've been talking for about 15 seconds, and let the citizens and MPs figure out what this is all about. "Nikola Savic: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Chairman, reporting by art. 225th and 226th. You quoted those members five or six minutes ago and there's no need to do that, but I noticed that these members will soon be out of the Rules of Procedure. All that is done is to bring a new Rules of Procedure and reduce the rights of MPs. "That's what I said at that session. After that, the chairman interrupted me, saying, "Because you do not speak according to the members you quoted, you have no word. I'm warning you. There's a word, Mr. Skrbic. "Of course, as a courteous man, I moved away from this pay phone and the stenogram shows that after me Mr. Skrbić came along. It's obvious that there's no point in taking any words away here, but it's just a reminder, although I haven't mentioned anyone in the last 15 seconds, I didn't mention anyone's name, so there was no place to warn. Article 109. The Rules of Procedure provide for one measure, cash, for a reminder, and one for taking away words. It is obvious that I was right here when I said – all this is done is to reduce the rights of MPs. Here's a confirmation that I was really right two months ago when I was talking. If this is how you think you're going to silence the MPs of the SRS, you're wrong. From this pay phone in due time, we will inform the public about everything we have learned, because, as counterpart Krasic said, it is the only way to find out the real truth. I ask a parliamentary question to the Secretary of the National Assembly – why has the Administrative Committee been given the wrong notification, on the basis of which the Administrative Committee has made the wrong decision to impose fines when it comes to my smallness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7988	Mr. Marash has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7989	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I have reported that I am advertising Article 104. I'm afraid he's either a injured member of 104 or someone here has to answer. I don't mean, specifically, in this room, but someone is committing a severe abuse at the place where he is. A moment ago, Mr. Todorovic provided fraternizing information. I listened, and I can't believe it. Article 104 says that it is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts, which I believe are, and an assessment relating to the private life of others. Just now, Mr. Todorovic was talking about a man who is the director of the airport, a man who, according to all that he said, makes terrible abuses. I'm not surprised that those of the political party "Jul" 17, sitting here, don't react, but I'm surprised that you of the DS don't do it. Mrs. Kolundzhija, when we raised the issue of gas, reacted correctly, came out here to the press, said the ruling majority, or DS, would support any functioning of the authorities that would investigate possible abuses. So I ask you to do everything and, first of all, for the sake of your cheek, or for the sake of what you represent here, the ruling majority, because we believe that DS has the greatest responsibility. Don't let one party official ruin the reputation of not only you as DS, but, above all, state authorities, or public enterprises. Here we heard what Mr. Todorovic was saying today, and I believe it's startled everyone in this room. What kind of team are these in public enterprises? What he was reading earlier, I believe he left no one indifferent. Of course no one here can react properly except those who make up the ruling coalition, or those who have executive power in their own hands. Please, all competent authorities are doing everything possible to examine what Mr. Todorovic was talking about. Either he broke the Rules of Procedure, so that in the day of voting we vote that he violated Article 104 because he presented some facts concerning some persons, or there is indeed a severe abuse here. I am sure that by your real reaction we can come to the conclusion that either there is an abuse by Bojan Krist, who is the director of the airport, and other people involved, or Mr Todorovic has made false, but as long as you do not act in the right way, we can only believe what Mr. Todorovic said, or that there are abuses in that public enterprise, which you have been talking about here for days and weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7990	The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. I fully understand Mr. Maras, which in some ways expresses the reserve, because when a man first hears such data, he simply cannot remain calm. It's just amazing that it's even possible. This would be absolutely unacceptable for any country in the world. Guys, this is immoral. There's something like this out of my mind, but so there's no dilemma about the data that I've brought out, in principle, I'll never bring out data for which I haven't seen a document; if I haven't seen it, I've seen it, I know for sure it exists, or if I don't have a photocopy of that document in my hands. I didn't want to burden you with these little things because of the time at my disposal, but all I've brought you is, absolutely, a photocopy of the original documents, with seductive stamps, with the signature of either Boyka Krište or the competent officials at Nicole Tesla Airport. I'm behind all this data I've told you. The camera can get closer and you can see. That's all the data that was received from people who just couldn't handle the robbery by Bojan Krishte and G17 Plus. Since there is no opportunity for the current government to do anything, they believe this is the only way out for them, to warn the citizens of Serbia and to tell them – aman, stand in the way of these thieves, destroy our country! What I brought to you, just remember, first thing in the afternoon, 142 million for the severance of 141 workers. Thirty-something workers under the deed, those who got severances got a new 14 million. It's just amazing. The man who got the severance, went to the Public Ski resorts; he got severance in gross amounts, I guess, of three and a half million. Is there anyone here who might think something like this is happening in this country? How long are you going to put up with this? Or you have, too, some other sources that allow you to go over these things. Since I know reliably that Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic also has one document related to a national team, I think it would be my turn to go out with that document and inform the public and MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7992	Milica Vojić-Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7993	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm calling for an article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, because it is very important for me, as a People's MP, to get information that is important for the work of the parliamentary group to which I belong, but also for all of us, because it is one, obviously, great abuse. My question is: Is the Ministry of Environment responsible for the destruction of ambrosia, mosquitoes and ticks under what law? If not, and I will answer this question in part, on the basis of which law did the authority take over in the spring of 2008 and spent 10m euros in budget funds for these activities? It's obviously one of the greatest abuses of this ministry. I'm here to mention, I've asked that in the budget rebalancing provide more resources, precisely for this ministry, believing that it's damaged here. Apparently, they have ten million euros to throw. It is obvious that this destruction of ambrosia, mosquitoes and ticks is a favorite tool when trying to alienate money from the budget, because, above all, it is impossible to determine how much poison has been used for these activities, nor is it possible to monitor how these actions have been carried out, or what the results of these actions are. What I announced was that I would respond, I refer to the 1998 Law on Plant Protection, on the basis of which the Government, in 2006, adopted the Regulation on the control and destruction of the maize ambrosia plant. The government says this is what the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management is responsible for. On the other hand, the 2004 Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases says that the Ministry of Health regulates the protection of the population from infectious diseases, determines infectious diseases and measures to prevent them, prevent them. What is essential, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, water and forestry are competent institutions. They repeat their question – is the Ministry of Environment responsible for the destruction of ambrosia, mosquitoes and ticks under what law? If it isn't, what law has taken over that jurisdiction? It's very important for me to get an answer to that question, and I'll know to take advantage of what I get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7994	Thank you. The issue will be forwarded to the government and the resolution ministers. The word is Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7995	Mrs. Djukić - Dejanovic, I will call on Article 104 to ask you to consider carefully what kind of damage to Article 104 is being considered. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the words that follow. I'm informing the public, of course, that the public is following the second channel of RTS, and they need to monitor the second channel, the better you follow and the longer you follow the second channel of RTS, the better you'll know what's going on in the Republic of Serbia. So now you've had a chance to find out that mosquitoes can become storks, thanks to the money used by DS for allegedly destroying mosquitoes. As for the ticks, I think they've become turtles. The injury is seen in a passive relationship between the DS parliamentary group president and current DS ideologist Srdjan Milivojevic, who went to Tadic to advise him. I must say, Mrs. Djukic – Dejanovic, and your passive relationship. Here's the thing. You have had the opportunity to hear from several MPs very interesting data, which you do not need to doubt, because everything Mr. Todorovic has read has been officially received officially. However, there is one flaw in that data. In the same situation, if not worse, Serbia's defence minister, Mr Dragan Sutanovac, is currently in place. I have to draw attention to you that a few years ago he was expelled from the federal government, from the federal authorities he took severance, so he would never get a job in the state authority again, and then you brought him back to be Minister of Defense. If we have two tanks, it is a great success for the Republic of Serbia. A similar situation is with other members. Mrs. Nado Kolundji, let me inform you, in the village of Brdjani, next to Gornji Milanovac, members of your party, DS, are calling us from the SRS to tell us that they have been on the Bureau for years and are getting nothing. They don't have any help. If you can't meet your needs for justice in the DS, come in, we have to. We represent all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Apparently, they haven't been able to achieve their right to you. Elemental law. DS member Dragan Sutanovac, a people known as Shuki-plasm, received a federal government severance so he would never be in the state service again. You brought him back. Now he's the Secretary of Defense. What's Bojan Kristo for him? Count Monte Christo. What else can it be for him? Please, what Mr. Dragan Todorovic was talking about is no exception. That's the rule of "yellow company." Citizens of Serbia, follow the RTS, the Second Programme, to find out what the Democratic Party is like, so you will never vote against yourself again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7996	Replica, Mr. Marash, again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7997	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come forward with the replica of Mr. Todorovic. Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, as well as Mrs. Nado Kolundžija, I highly respect you, not only because of the functions on which you are, but also because of what you can do, above all, in order for this country to rule some order. We had a Finance Committee today. We had five points on the Finance Committee, they all referred to the State Auditing Institution. We want the institution to live. It's an independent institution, which, if it was full capacity, would have contributed a lot to this country, first of all, if stories like this had just happened. On Friday, however, he held an interview with the president of the State Auditing Institution, who, if he had had had any morals, would resign immediately after the interview. The man said no one's allowed him to work for three years. On the question of journalists, three times put – whether to control public enterprises, we received an answer that it cannot control public enterprises. For what? Because it takes at least three years for the auditors, who he would bring to him, who he could not bring to him, to do the job in the best possible way. I remind you, when it was an IMF mission, one of the three key criticisms was that no insight was made into the final account of public enterprises, that the public was not aware of how public enterprises function. Then, of course, this is what Mr. Todorovic was talking about, that you have one ossion man, who gives an interview the other day and says he can't tell who was paid 11,000 euros in dinar equivalent and, behold, he only has 3,600 euros in salary, as we learned from the media, six times the salary of the Serbian president, eight times the size of Serbia's prime minister, which is a disaster. Indeed, I don't know how you DS can swallow such things as the coalition partners serve you and protect one man who thus destroys the reputation of the ruling coalition! Once again, I want to say, so if what Mr. Todorovic said is true, it is a major abuse. If not, Mr Todorovic should, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, be held accountable. But, Mr. Todorovic, as far as I can tell, he's offering documents. Please do something to get rid of such a thing, to revive the State Auditory Institution, to control public enterprises, to see how funds are spent in public enterprises, to see the final accounts of public enterprises; for years no one has seen it here. The state audit institution must receive all the support of this Parliament and, of course, the Government, not to be obstructed and allowed to employ people and to work full capacity, and to draw out that the Assembly did not bring what is necessary for the State Auditing Institution to start working properly, the most it speaks of the man who has said this, who has suffered such a situation for three years, during both Kostunica's governments and now. (President: Time. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7998	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Sluzzarevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u7999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to the 10th Law on Judges. The situation in our judiciary is very difficult, you know it is, but you have obtained aber from that Europe to harmonise the judiciary and these laws with the European Union. But that harmonisation is one-way. You're on your way through Europe, and our experience and tradition, you're tearing down the unfavorables, not taking into account the consequences. This law on judges has the task of lustration. We from the Serbian Radical Party are against this lustration, when we know that judges should judge by law and law. All judges need to be detained for purpose, and that is the party task of you who rule. What happens tomorrow, when you come down from power? This law on judges needs to be brought in line with the Constitution. We think the law on judges is a bad concept, to push the judiciary into a state of total blockade. We have shown that the judges, without checking their work in practice, have become too comfortable, irresponsible, messy in work, 4.300 are lagging behind, and many judgments are abolished and modified by higher courts. Without continuous and frequent checks, there is no full celery, efficiency and economics. Because of this relationship, our citizens suffer great damage, because some procedures are conducted for 20 years and costs are paid by innocent citizens. So there's no trial within a reasonable period, and the shorter the shorter, the more anything that can question a fair trial. The independence of the judge, the impartiality of the judge. What do you mean you're realising? Generally, the principle debate, which has passed, can lead to the conclusion: the opposition believes that this and the other laws of this branch are not good, and the position praises and raises these laws to the edge of the European Union. You with 126 votes will accept this law. What will happen to the judges, and they are now very unhappy, even publicly expressing their views on this law? But they're just faking it. They are on the same task, pro-forms are struggling, and Vida Petrovic-Škero allegedly criticised the government. Well, it's just a public criticism, so some don't think so. A similar group of judges must and should choose a new group of similar judges and they will then wear a yellow robe, with a gray wig, which will remind the famous Hague judges, and you can see from this trial how they do it: they do what they want, however they will, but not for long. We from the Serbian Radical Party have proposed to edit Article 10 of this Law by submitting the amendment, which reads: "In Article 10(4), the words "five years" are replaced by the words "three years". "The judge and the President of the Court also elects to suspend their office by the Assembly, or the High Council of the judiciary, in accordance with this law. The number of judges and jury judges for each court determines the High Judicial Council. The number of judges in violation, the High Violent and Administrative Court is also determined for each department outside the court's seat. The High Council of the Judiciary examines the required number of judges and judges in each court for five years. According to its own initiative or on the proposal of the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the High Court of Justice, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the Minister of Justice, and on the basis of the annual inflow of the case, the High Court of Justice may review the required number of judges and judges of the jury and before the five-year deadline expires. ''The government has given its opinion and suggested that the amendment should not be accepted, for the reason it is estimated that the five-year term is more appropriate for reviewing the number of judges and judges in each court, since the issue will be more comprehensively considered over a longer period of time. Our proposal is – three years, because it allows negative selection, which it has, to be replaced by positive selection of judge personnel and to be interrupted by such judges. We fight not to allow judges to lose their jobs because of the political functioning of the government, but to work according to the law and the judicial scientific experience, so that in the system of justice, only listeners from the negative selection of political parties remain, and this dates back to 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8000	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8001	Reporting in accordance with Article 101. I would like, in the form of a replica, to answer, on behalf of the Administrative Committee, Ambassador Nikola Savic. I asked professional services to check his stenograms to see if his word was taken from him. Based on the data I just received, he wasn't taken from me. We will review this decision at the next session of the Administrative Committee. What we received from the secretary of the National Assembly, i.e. that your word was taken from you and that, accordingly, the Administrative Board decided, obviously there was some mistake and we will correct it at the next session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8002	The People's MP Sreto Peric has the word, and then Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, on the amendment. The SRS parliamentary group has 10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to inform the judges, I've been afraid of many honest and honorable judges, because the number of reductions has been announced. However, with regard to what Mr. Dragan Todorovic stands for, regarding only one director, it is obvious that there will be work for good judges, of course, and lawyers. A colleague of Vujadinovic is not there, he and I advocate much more for the real sector. It would mean a lot to us if that question were to be raised. I'll just be brief. Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic suggested that the High Council of the Judiciary review the required number of judges and judges in each court, not for five years, as scheduled, but for three years. The fact that in Belgrade's District Court, 1430 court cases are outdated suggests that a five-year wait is not enough to be completed in some courts. A total of 4300 outdated items. If the High Council of the Judiciary discusses the possibility of increasing the number of judges after every five years, this problem will increase further and cannot be resolved. The government's very interesting argument is about not accepting this amendment, where it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the five-year deadline is estimated to be more appropriate than that proposed by Mr Plužarevic. How can it be more appropriate on what basis, when we have not yet had a situation for the High Council to decide on this in any shorter period, and in advance, we assume that the time period of five years is more appropriate than that of three years? Maybe even a three-year period won't be an adequate situation that we already have, but from these facts we've heard today, there's a possibility that there will be a very large number of people to be prosecuted, and then the High Judiciary Council will have to do much more often, not waiting for a five-year period to decide on the number of judges in all courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8004	After giving up Mr. Zivanovic, the word is Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Vitomir Plužarevic, under the law on judges, explained in Article 10(4) that this law could be a real law on judges if the amendment he submitted to this article was passed. I'd like to add a little bit about his exposure. The said legal member is prescribed that the High Judicial Council, every five years, examines the number of judges and judges in courts. That deadline is too long, as the deadlines for monitoring the work of judges and the ongoing needs for the work of each court, regardless of jurisdiction, are too short, and the work of the judges is valued within three years, and the annual work plan determines the work of the judges for the following year. As it is not known by which criteria, the number of cases or the like, the High Council of the judiciary will establish the number of necessary judges for courts of all jurisdiction, and it is obvious that the power to establish new courts is changing, the same deadline should be shortened, in order to better assess the needs of each court and thus provide better and better quality protection for citizens. The number of cases in courts changes year after year. The work plan is formed annually, according to the number of cases. According to the same number, a judicial council is formed, and the practice has shown that an assessment of the work of each court can be given only after three years of expiry, a deadline provided for in Article 35 of the Justice Act. Notwithstanding the fact that paragraph 4 states that the number of judges and judges of the jury can be reconsidered even before five years, in order to better look at the number of judges needed, it is better to keep the deadline shorter, but sufficient to adequately assess the need for each judge, or court, regardless of the jurisdiction. Again, we note that the law does not provide for a criterion for determining the number of judges necessary for each court, regardless of jurisdiction. In view of the change in jurisdiction, the current situation provided for by the systematisation of judges cannot be used as the basis for determining the number of judges for each court, so there is a risk that, after the law enters into force, the required number of judges and judges of jurors without considering the actual needs and the number of cases of each court, regardless of the jurisdiction. The non-registration of the motionor and its non-acquaintment on the criteria under which that number will be established requires that, at least after the entry into force of the law, the High Council of the judiciary be allowed, as proposed, to review, within the meaning of Article 4, the number of judges and judges necessary for each court in particular, regardless of the jurisdiction. In particular, I note that the current burden of existing courts, hence the judge in the same courts, is unequal, so that individual courts, or judges, have not reached orientational norm. So the current state of the number of judges and jury judges does not meet the real needs. In one part of the courts, especially the districtal ones, there is a marked lack of number of judges, courts work without complete councils, so the larger ones are formed from different reports, which apparently indicates that the current state of the number of judges in some courts is inappropriate, because there is an obvious lack of judges. It's about the County Court in Zrenjanin, a specific example. As the jurisdiction of the current district court is expanded, it is obvious that it will not be able to successfully carry out the tasks and responsibilities entrusted to them. That is why I believe it is necessary for the deadline to be reduced and that the High Council of the judiciary can, if necessary and shorter, determine the number of judges in individual courts, regardless of their jurisdiction. If the selection criteria are a political resemblance, without assessing the professional work and the quality of each judge's work in person, it is obvious that we will not get the quality work of the courts, regardless of the jurisdiction. It is obvious that the aim of the adoption of a set of judicial laws is to improve the situation in the judiciary. If the promoter wishes to achieve this goal, it must enable the High Judicial Council to, through the monitoring of the annual work of each court, consider objective and realistic needs for the number of judges and judges in each court. I suggest that Articles 2 and 3. The law on judges states: "The number of judges and judges of the jury for each court is governed by the High Council of the judiciary, based on the number of cases of each court. The High Council of the Judiciary examines the required number of judges and judges in each court every three years." This is only a contribution to the amendment submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 10(4). Also, let me inform you, since I promised to bring out how the agrarian, or the "Palm Mafia" in Serbia works, I have prepared the material, the figures are enormous. You will have accurate data, Serbia's citizens and you, and the justice minister, finance minister, agriculture minister and interior minister, about how the "Agrarian Mafia" works, how someone can work thousands of hectares in Serbia without even giving a dinar in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8006	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Another minute of SRS? You won't? All right. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a member of the 12th proposed law says, "The judicial office continues continuously from the first election for the judge to the completion of the working century." The amendment requires that the words "judgment", they add, "to permanent function", and the rest of the attitude remains unchanged. If the sustainability and continuity of the judge's office were to be brought to life in court practice, it would be a major contribution to other principles, as well as strengthening confidence in the independence and impartiality of the judicial function. In practice, however, something quite different is happening. First, Serbia's Constitution reflects a state continuity and cannot possibly be excluded from this principle as a judge, as a holder of judicial functions. On the contrary, the judge should be a mirror, a reflection, an expression of that state continuity, and at any time the judge's office should be an image of that state continuity. Secondly, the Constitution recognises acquired rights and these acquired rights must be guaranteed to all, especially judges in the exercise of judicial functions. It is these two principles that are being violated by the very concept of this law on judges. This has to do with re-election of judges, even though you keep saying this isn't about re-election. It is a re-election, and this is the consequence of the influence of the state authorities, therefore, of the executive authorities on judges, i.e. on the full exercise of the judicial function. Who will be elected, or re-elected under this law? Only politically similar, therefore, those who are the ruling majority at will. Even in Roman law, there was one sentiment, one saying, which says – whatever the ruler likes, has the power of the law. Today, that's how it is. If the ruler likes not to be re-elected, such a law is passed and such legal regulations will not be elected, I mean the judges. If the ruler likes that there is no state continuity in performing a judicial function, the legislation is passed, the law is passed, and he will not be elected. So there's no state continuity. If the ruler likes that the rights of judges are not respected against the Constitution, such a law is passed and they are normally not respected. So, as in all other segments of social, political and economic life, so is here, only one rule is undeniable, and that's a rule stronger. The supremacy of the executive authority in relation to the judicial authority is very visible here, and under this law will indeed come full expression. The government is acting here, and we saw that when Mr. Todorovic spoke of spending a great deal of money in public enterprises, continuously according to one principle, i.e. by Negosje – the wolf on the sheep has his right to a tyrant to a good man. When he once explained this saying of His Lordship, Reverend Nikolaj Velimirovic, he said about it – there is only one thing that is certain here, which is the right acquired, it is the natural right of the wolf in relation to the sheep; his hunger and his strength makes him make a judgment against her. That's right here. By coming to power, individuals believe they have this natural power, this desire for power, the hunger for wealth, the hunger for money. Thus, they actually have power over the fate of this people. They hold the entire fate of this people, and that fate is endured in poverty, in hunger. The possibility of not being re-elected increases the fear of those who are not politically alike, as well as of those judges who have so far not publicly declared themselves members of a political option. Since they can't be judges in their own affairs, they can't influence their choice with anything but their honesty, independence and impartiality, they can't influence being elected, only to soon come one of Virgil's sayings – God will give this end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8008	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, and then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have seen, I received a warning because I was telling the truth, that is because I wanted to say that one of the world's greatest politicians today, a man who stood in the line of the greatest Serbian giants, such as Nikola Tesla, Pupin and many others - Prof. Vojislav Seselj. I couldn't say that for those who are porters, who are undertakers, those who are false patriots, those who are prostitutes, or those who want to enter and make a coalition of new authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, you remember that very well in 2000, the five-October revolution, when you were talking about this issue of the judiciary, that you don't want to be politicized, that you don't want the judiciary to be in the hands of a political party, but to be independent, honest and fair. You saw during this eight-year reign, it's an act, it's your trademark. In fact, you have conducted a politicisation of the judiciary, that the judiciary is in the hands of the political mob, that the judiciary has become a symbiosis between criminals, thieves, politicians, lawyers and the judiciary, that in many cases lawyers are connected to the judges, so when the party comes to the lawyer's case, it is chosen which judges will go to, because it is reportedly going to get it, the party will get it if the case comes to that lawyer and the judge. I must say, there are honorable and honest judges. Although very difficult, especially since the period when Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic became. You know well how he conducted the politicisation of the judiciary, especially in Capco, and that many judges had to judge as the minister of justice told them, or how he delivered a sermon to them in which way he would rule. Here, look at the privatisation of many companies. Many workers complained that this privatisation was criminally done, and what's going on? It happens that the case comes to the judge and, instead of the workers getting the dispute, they are found guilty, not the tycoon who bought the company. What's going on? They have barely raised money to file criminal charges, and let alone after that – they should pay court costs. Now, that is, in fact, an order, I must say quite frankly, which has been passed on by the higher instance of the judiciary, such as the county or municipal judiciary -- in which way it has passed that verdict, that I do not speak of many cases where peasants could not collect their products. They had to sue, normally, so they could come to justice. What's going on? It happens that that tycoon that owes them is, in fact, released by a verdict, and the villagers have to bear the costs of that trial. Now, you see where that symbiosis is, where that closeness between criminals is, in fact, the mafia. I was going to say one more time, you saw why I got a warning. I received a warning because I wanted to say - was the state, the Ministry of Justice and the judiciary behind the greatest hero, the greatest politician, who wants to prove Serbia's innocence in these imposed wars, where we wanted to save Serbs, to say, and citizens, from swords, from slaughter, from what the Ustashas did in those 24 concentration camps in Croatia? It shows today, it wants to show the world today, that the Serbian people and that the Serbian Radical Party were, in fact, a wall of defense from the Ustashas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8010	Mr. Krasic, you have three minutes of your parliamentary group. Here you go, if you want to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8011	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, regardless of this time, I will report for the next amendment, to explain what this is really about. I mean several members who were the subject of discussion at this session, first of all, amendments that were submitted to Article 10 and the one that was submitted to Article 12, which deeply affect the constitutionality of this law. I must, first of all, draw your attention to you, no matter how you interpret the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I hope that you listen to me, if these people don't listen to me, but they don't matter, that you wrote that the number of judges and judges for each court determines the High Council of Justice. I don't think such authority by the High Council of the judiciary exists in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Such an interpretation could not be derived from Article 154, where exactly the jurisdiction of the High Council of the judiciary is prescribed, but I could say that there is a need to regulate this area by special law. In one provision, in the provision of Article 143(2), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because of the public, I must quote what this is about, is said: "The founding, organisation, jurisdiction, regulation and composition of courts are governed by law. ''Beware, this question of the number of judges in some court is a matter of court organisation. All these other questions are out of this. Thus, the establishment, or law, of jurisdiction, of the law prescribes the regulation and composition of courts. When it is said, "The composition of the courts", it is thought, first of all, of the judicial council that participate. Well, there are provisions that say that a judge individual can participate in certain things. I believe that the question of the number of judges and judges in a court of law is not matter that can be inserted into something that is within the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary of Article 154, but rather matter that needs to be regulated by law. This is the first intervention. There'll probably be room to talk about it. As regards this particular amendment to Article 12(1), where, besides continuity, I also have to draw your attention, i.e. to tell you honestly, a mistake was made when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted. What's the mistake of looking at? It is seen that the National Assembly, in practice, chooses judges who will perform their duties for up to three years and be at some trial work as judges, and then the High Council of the judiciary decides on their function, on the possibility of performing that function permanently. I think the situation should have been reversed. Why the reverse? Because someone's legitimacy can come from the National Assembly, not the High Council of the Judiciary. It's very simple. Anything that counts on some legitimacy and some legality must come from the congregation. Why? Because the Assembly of Citizens has transferred this sovereign right. It's a very simple thing. Now we've come into a kind of conflict, a kind of dialectic between the term "permanence" and "sustainability." Okay, I'm gonna hang up now so you don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8012	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that for the 50th anniversary of Belgrade's Television, there will now be a special transmission on the Second Channel, but we have an agreement that a so-called delayed transfer will be made from 20 hours to 20 hours, and what is now happening in the National Assembly will be transferred from 20 hours to more. I thank you for understanding the Radio and you, gentlemen MPs. So, there's no transmission, but everything's going to be transferred from 20 hours and so on. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Milojkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Slobodan Maras. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8013	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, the LDP has submitted one amendment to Article 13. The Law on Judges, by proposing to supplement the sentence in paragraph 3 which begins in the following way – the High Council of the Court of Justice shall take a decision in which the Court of Justice continues its office, saying: ''in accordance with the established criteria and criteria'. Article 3 of the proposed Article does not lay down criteria or criteria. So one automation is accepted, and otherwise, the government also points out in its explanation why it does not accept this amendment. In this regard, the Commission notes: ‘Amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons why the criteria for continuing functions are laid down in paragraph 2 of the same Article of the Law proposal, and it shall not be necessary to establish the obligation for the High Council of the judiciary to specifically prescribe criteria for the continuation of the judicial function’. So, if so, then this means that the legislator foresees automation as regards the further fate of judges and their placement in courts, after certain courts have been abolished, or ceases to exist. Automatism is the same – arbitraryness. This arbitraryness produces selectivity. In fact, we are witnessing that in our country we have various agencies – to fight corruption, to fight monopolies, to fight conflicts of interest, we have prosecutors, we have SUP, we have militias, we have different bodies that should act and to initiate certain procedures when it comes to some abuse that is obvious, which becomes a notorous fact. Unfortunately, we turn abuses into notorous facts, which means that everyone in this country knows them and that this is accepted as a common phenomenon, as something that is inevitable, which must exist. That's our society, that's our mentality. In fact, it's all about some criteria, or criteria, that should be established and applied, in any case, to avoid any selectivity, to really initiate some procedures and to result in some changes in society, which would also produce some legal certainty. Today we've heard some fraternizing things about us fraternizing, about the height of some teams, some bar costs, which, you'll allow, represents, first hand, something faceless, and, on the second hand, something suspicious. Since we have all these bodies that should indiscriminately apply their powers and laws, we should expect that, after today's story in Parliament, someone is indeed responding. But given what we've heard in the last few months, what we've been experiencing, almost daily, we expect absolutely no reaction. We simply expect one silence, we expect it to end the way it has happened so far, that the scandal follows another scandal, replaces it, and then simply forgets. It is interesting that these biggest scandals, and the biggest abuses, absolutely no one reacts, no one applies the criteria and criteria that are foreseen by law, and then it can happen that one of the directors of the Public Enterprise has a salary of over 10,000 euros, then it can happen that the bar account is paid by 140 thousand dinars, then it can happen that in the Public Undertaking of the Railways, in the Public Enterprise of the "Srbigas", in the Public Enterprise of NIS and in all other public undertakings of receiving enormouss, that no one takes care of which criteria, on the basis of which the criteria are established these salaries and fees, these luxuriant giving of our society to certain persons. Why luxuriant? I can't imagine that someone really worked and earned that money, which we heard today, every month, and that money we don't say -- a hundred times, but very close, multiple average salaries, or a minimum salary of an average Serbian citizen. It's inadmissible and that's why we, LDP, use every opportunity to rule out every automation and arbitraryity in lawmaking, because that only leads to some anarchy, and you'll allow, our society is quite anarchical. Because, how else do we call what we heard, among other things, and today, how do we call it that we have asked certain questions – what is happening in "Serbiagas", how is it that, instead of privatising the Public Enterprise of NIS, we are going to introduce a new state monopoly of a foreign state, so, the monopoly of the Russian state on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, how has such an enormous collection of gas occurred? You will allow it to be no explanation – it should have increased the price of gas before, but, well, we haven't arrived, so now, suddenly, it's that percentage. You'll let it be a little weird to hear from the director of "Serbiagas" – look forward to it, we won't buy you another 30% gas. Well, we're looking forward to it, but we're wondering what that means. Does that mean the gas should pick up 90%? Otherwise, we hear that the price of gas on the international market has dropped in the meantime, but now, my God, we have a dollar as a criterion, which determines a new price, but, behold, "Serbigas" is such a good soul that it will subsidize citizens of Serbia, who are great consumers, don't care that energy is expensive, don't care that "Srbigas" has good intentions, but unfortunately, that is, the contract is concluded, the agreements are concluded. Unfortunately, these contracts and these agreements have been concluded, not taking into account certain criteria and certain criteria. So we always go back to the same essence, which is also highlighted in this attitude of Article 13 of the Judges Act. The difference may be, perhaps, small, may not mean much to the legislator, but it would be good to go once, to be objective in writing the law, in applying the law, and to avoid that selectivity as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8014	Thank you. Mr. Krasic has a word for this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8015	After today's debate, I think it's clear to everyone that this is an extremely good and democratic Rules of Procedure, because it gives room for government representatives to hear arguments as to why the opposition thinks they're wrong, and although this will be in a delayed transfer, those who are interested will be able to hear and see what's being prepared. I think you've come to understand the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that from that comes a whole series of these, as I would say, problems that cannot be kept. You see, from article 150. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, relating to the unmovableness of the judge, stems, logically, a provision that it is impossible for the High Council of the judiciary to determine the number of judges and judges in courts. This provision is inevitably going on with the law. Something that is standard, Qosic knows that well, everything that the Constitution says should be regulated by law, gives the authority to regulate the law only by means of a way of exercising a right without going into law itself. Mrs. Judita, with her party friends, has submitted an amendment to Article 13(3) where one situation is regulated that the High Council of the Judiciary is making a decision to which the judge continues to perform his post. However, in the previous article, you have not only interpreted but violated the provision of the Constitution. See Article 12(3). He says – extremely, the first person to choose for the judge is elected for three years. It's a matter solved by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It can't be extraordinary when it's a rule. Why do you say – extremely, for three years, when it is regulated by the Constitution, Article 146 – a person first elected as judge is elected for three years? Let go of the second attitude. How can there be an exception to the continuity of function? The law does not have a function to prescribe the provisions of the Constitution, because if the law should be a Constitution of two, then we do not need it. That's what this is about. You say, "If the court is lifted," and that matter is already regulated by this provision of Article 150. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, "the judge continues to serve in a court taken over by jurisdiction", i.e. the judicial office does not stop if the number of judges in the court in which he performs his judicial office is reduced. Explain to me how this situation can happen. The high council of the judiciary now says, of the 24 of these courts, we're going to cut to 23. You handed everything over to the High Judiciary Council. How could you not? Did you say the number of judges and judges of the jury determine the High Council of Judges? In Article 10, you said – The High Council of the judiciary determines how many judges will work in one court and how many judges will be in that court. This provision is a logical continuation of that. She says - if the number of judges is reduced, it was 50, so you solved, the High Council of the Judiciary, to be 48, what about these two judges? This matter is regulated by the law, or the Constitution. I told you, that's Article 150, which says – in the event of the court's suspension or the principal part of the court's jurisdiction. Well, you don't choose a judge for a court's excessive jurisdiction. If he's a judge, according to your nomenclature, of the basic court, he's a judge of the basic court. In which department he will work, on which disputes to judge, it is a matter of internal redistribution of the Rules of Procedure. You say now – if part of the jurisdiction of that court decreases, disrupts, and that judge has worked in that part, it becomes an excess of labour. The judge is no ordinary employee. You must understand that the judge, in addition to what is the jurisdiction of the court, which is prescribed by the law on the regulation of courts, has so-called so-called court. adhesion jurisdiction, a jurisdiction that stems from the very fact that someone is engaged in a judicial function. You can come to this lesson if you read a little of the European Court of Human Rights decisions. This is a serious topic, people. You quasinorms are destroying something. You're here sending a clear message to the judges that, regardless of whether he worked extremely hard for three years as a trial judge, or whether he was elected, as you say, to perform that function permanently, and I don't know what the difference between sustainability and perseverance is, he's guaranteed that he can't move just like that. You cannot move a man without his consent, so here, in law, you have entered into the story – the same species, the same rank, etc. Why? Unnecessarily. You've tied everything to the number of courts, the number of judges, and you've tied it to the jurisdiction of the High Court Council. Then you're going to the judge's right to perform judicial duties. You, directly, are giving this law the right to involve someone, completely unauthorized, in something that you have prescribed as a perseverance. Take the judge who's been elected to perform the judge's office permanently. Because of the fact that the number of judges and judges of the jury will determine the High Council of the judiciary, he is in a state of uncertainty, and who will be appointed, who will be sent to another court, and on what basis. I've read to you before the provisions on organization, composition, that it must be regulated by law. If something has to be settled by law, it doesn't mean that the law gives authority to someone else. In addition, anything that could be the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is prescribed in Article 154. In the end, what it says – and other tasks in accordance with the law, you should be overly restrictive to interpret, not to extend the powers laid down in Article 154. You have extended the powers of Article 154. Take 154, take 150 and take the provisions of Art. 143 and 146, can you apply these standards, which are binding, constitutional norms, to find this logic that you're pushing from Article 10, through Article 12, and here, now with Article 13? Of course, you're provoking an amendment like this. She's fully aware of the woman, since she's experienced in court, that what they're proposing is just an attempt to stop what you're planning. These criteria and all of this must be prescribed by law, not by the High Council of the Judiciary. Simply, some things about law have to be regulated, can't be brought down to the level of the sublaw, or devalued by leaving the matter to someone, so let it be even the highest authority, if I may say so, in terms of judicial status, such as the High Council of the Judiciary. We'll get to that law. You gave here unlimited powers to the High Council of the Judiciary, especially this first, or zero convocation, the composition of that high council of the judiciary. This "zeroth" is all there is in the Bible, and nowhere else. Why did you give it? To mutilate the judiciary. You don't need an orderly judiciary. It's the beginning and it's the end of a whole operation called a set of judicial laws. It simply comes from every provision. Some criteria, some criteria must be regulated by law. It cannot be given to the free will of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and you have left it, using something that allows a kind of interpretation of these several provisions of the Constitution, which I have told you about. I'm saying this from the point of view of the Constitution, not from my point of view, because I don't think it's well done in the Constitution. I respect the Constitution, but I believe that it is a disaster for the legitimacy and legality of the judge's function to judge the trial work, an exceptional choice of the National Assembly, and for the permanent performance of the office – the High Council of the judiciary. If you went to that half solution, I think the situation should have been reversed, that the High Council of the Judiciary should have chosen, so let them be three years on probation, and when proven, to get legitimacy in the National Assembly. However, no, you want political influence and domination through the High Council of the Judiciary, and that zero composition, which will be made in a few months, where judges will choose people who have no legitimacy as judges, their legitimacy is not based on the election by law, a new one, but on the basis of the founding state. It's that prank that's preparing for our judiciary. I don't want to scare the judges, they should stick to the Constitution and the laws, and judge by regulations, and, of course, there's always their sense of justice, but based on security, honor and honesty. It's not here. It's all about solutions like this. Here, terrible messages are sent to judges, future judges, or, to be more precise, candidates for future judges – be good, see what powers we have, see what we can do, see that the 'zero' composition of the High Council of the Judiciary can do anything. You cannot talk about a free and independent judge, who is basically an independent and independent judiciary, if the issue of his 'job', you question the role of the judge of that court by such provisions, and this is certainly questionable by the fact that the number of judges and judges of the jury determines the High Council of the judiciary and not, by law, the National Assembly. By law, the National Assembly should prescribe this, because it is in the spirit of this constitution, and on the principle of continuity in the exercise of judicial office, and by all these principles and principles, these are the principles of the UN adopted 20 years ago, which are applied everywhere in the world. These are minimum principles that guarantee the independence and independence of the judiciary. They start with the constitution or the law prescribing independence and independence, and on and on, through the continuity of the judge's office, through the material position, and even the association of judges, even that exists. That has to be said, although it doesn't suit me, but it has to be said when it comes to those standards, it writes, it's an international standard. We've got a situation here to bend it. Of course, it's possible that the court can be abolished. Of course, there's a possible situation to change, but it has to be established by law. He's not a judge, like a regular schlepper, at work, so he's gonna fire Peconi. Statusally, the judge's working relationship is one thing, and the judge's function is another thing. We're talking here, first of all, about this thing, and it's a judicial function. If performing a judicial function doesn't have this guarantee that we're talking about, then we don't have a judiciary, then we don't have an independent and independent court. Then we have a party court, which, every time there is a trial in Belgrade, will stop at the Crown to get a text from someone on how to dictate the verdict when they enter the Court of Justice. I'm against such a court. If you are for such a judiciary, then say, 126 of us are for such a judiciary, but say clearly that all citizens of Serbia know what you are for.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8016	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Slobodan Maras together submitted to the 16th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8017	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, this LDP amendment to Article 16 is very short – Article 2 is deleted. This is a very important amendment, for the next reasons. Namely, art. The 16th century of the Law provides for the judge to be removed from office until the detention, termination of the procedure for the resolution or termination of the criminal proceedings. However, position 2 says the High Judicial Council can restore the judge to office before the resolution procedure is completed. Then we come into a strange situation when, for example, the reason for the judge's dismissal is that the judge has been held in custody, that a criminal case has been brought in. What does that mean, the judge can come back to work in court and if he's in custody, and if he's being prosecuted? Namely, the judge against whom any proceedings have been initiated, so I do not specify, is thus already vulnerable and susceptible to other people's influences. So we get the situation that independence, independence, as well as the integrity of the judge, and, of course, the court. A judge who judges despite a certain case being brought against him cannot be either independent or independent, and many can influence such a judge. With this attitude of Article 2, we fully unnecessarily introduce that possibility. In addition to having such big problems in the judiciary, which we have such big problems with many judges, who are obviously unworthy of their calling, and their functions, which require certain dignity and represents a great burden of responsibility, which you have, by the way, marked in one of the members of this law, when you have established criteria for determining the compensation of judges, or the height of their salaries, we have every day the opportunity to hear and read in the newspaper that a question of corruption has been raised in the courts. We have quite a number of proceedings against the judges. What does that mean? With this attitude 2, all these judges can return to the courts automatically, they can resume the trial, and the procedure for their resolution should be completed when it is over. We, about a month ago, resolved the judges and established the termination of the judicial post, because a few years ago, the Justice Committee did not sit down and decide on those resolutions. What does that mean, that we are giving this position 2 the possibility that these things have been going on in court for years, that they are taking the proceedings of judges against whom they are also taking certain proceedings?- I'm sorry. How can we expect respect from citizens, respect from lawyers, judges of jurors, artists and all other participants in the proceedings against that judge, who sits in this very important place of justice, most importantly, because he plays a major role in sharing that justice, and that any action is brought against him, when his dignity is questioned by this procedure, when that responsibility is put under question? As soon as a case of a judge is suspected of something which is reason enough to initiate its resolution procedure, it is, in fact, questioning its integrity, questioning his decision that should result in the end of the entire procedure he was conducting. How do you expect people to accept that decision as one judicial inevitability, which has been decided on some of their rights, their freedom, their lives, their money, etc.? So, with nothing caused and completely unnecessary, this position 2 is put into Article 16. The law on judges. The government's argument that the LDP amendment is not accepted says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is estimated that this possibility should be maintained in the text of the law, so that even in the case of a major inflow of the case, the effective work of the court and in these circumstances would be possible. What is the efficiency of the court's work if it judges such a judge and what is the result of his work expected and, in the end, he gets? Isn't that why the judgments are established, that is why they are made, that they are valued, respected and executed? How do you expect someone whom this decision refers to to to accept this completely peaceful, peaceful soul and calm conscience without asking a question – and what about the judge who made that decision? For this reason, we propose that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8018	Thank you. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic, about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the amendments that should certainly be adopted and introduced into the law, because it fully resolves the indeterminateness of Article 16. I will read Article 16 of this Act: "The judge is moving away from the post until the detention, the end of the procedure for the resolution or the end of the criminal proceedings." The second position, to which Mrs. Judith submitted the amendment, reads: "The high council of the judiciary can restore the judge to office before the discharge procedure is completed". The reasoning given to Mrs Judith on her amendment says this: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is estimated that this possibility should be maintained in the text of the law, so that even in the case of a major inflow of the case, the effective work of the court under these circumstances is possible." Let's bring it down, slowly, to practice. The judge is in custody. He took bribes or didn't ask for his exception, if it was his relatives, friends, or even acquaintances. The judge is in custody. Since it has not been resolved, the judge can return the High Council to office by the end of the discharge procedure. Or, the judge was in custody, he got out of custody, no criminal proceedings have been closed, and to remind you, you have the entire departments of the court that they've been in custody for certain criminal acts, they've been released, and the case hasn't been completed yet. Does this mean that you judges, who are known to have sinned against the law, will return to the courtroom and allow them to judge, just because a large number of cases have been found at one point, have accumulated, as the explanation puts it? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have a situation here in Zemun. It is justifiably suspected that President Velja, Skoric, the District Court judge, has reached a solution that he has made not because of respect for the law, but because of respect for the kinsman's relationship, and I think it will be established tomorrow that he is already a close relative of a certain Skoric, a DS official at the award level. If this is determined, and we have filed a criminal complaint, a procedure must be initiated for the resolution of such a judge, and such judges, not to mention the Kragujevac judges, not to mention the judges of this second council. A procedure for the resolution of such judges must be initiated. Will you bring him back and give him the items, because, God, the items have accumulated? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, certain judges from the "yellow" part of Serbia's democratic public are still in prison. Some were released after two years of detention; I'm talking about the work relating to the Trade Court. Many of the verdicts were written not in the courtroom, more specifically, they received judgments, because, let me remind you, for a grand trial, the judge's chairman said – we finally got a verdict; no – we did, but got a verdict. Are we going to reduce the independence of the judiciary to their convictions and that their obligation is just to rule it out? What about those who work as co-workers in court, who wait for the place to be emptied, who wait for one of yours, precisely because of these cases, to retire, or because of these and similar cases, to go into custody, so it is determined that he was taking bribes, so it is determined that he was wrong about the law, so until... Why don't you appoint new judges? You've got a very good spring in all the courts. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment needs to be accepted, because it prevents those we know of, who are suspected of having sinned against the law, from holding justice in their hands and cannot share justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8020	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8021	I have to draw attention to the fact that it's really amazing that this amendment is not accepted by the government. If you do not accept this amendment, to delete Article 2(2) from Article 16, and it should be deleted so that the High Council of the Court can return the judge to office before the resolution procedure is completed, I must draw your attention to the consequences that can happen. In Section 1, you said that whoever is in custody, who is being prosecuted and who is being prosecuted, cannot participate in the trial, is moving away from doing the job, and then you pulled this third category - which are in the process of resolution, and you say, "Yes, they could perform the judicial function even though they are distant, because if the cases build up, we'll return it, and they'll say even better." That's the message you're sending. If anyone has entered the discharge procedure, let it be done, so that when the procedure is completed, depending on the outcome of the procedure, that the fate of that judge may be resolved, or someone will apologize to him for launching the discharge procedure, if it fails, and that man will continue to work. But if you have initiated a discharge procedure and this procedure is not closed, then the question is, what is the High Council of the Judiciary serving? I have to inform these Kragujevac MPs, perhaps you're not informed, Kragujevci, B92 just released the news that some firm, a Citadel, is charging brokering services because it brought the Fiat to Kragujevac, and that's 50 million euros. Did the Government of the Republic of Serbia bring in the Fiat, or did someone else bring it in, so you pay for the brokerage services? Please, I don't know, nor did I watch B92, the man told me, he says - aman, man, wherever you turn, crime. We listen – The government brought strategic investment, Tadic won, G17 won and possible and impossible, brought 'Fiat', and, behold, now agency news that the company that finished it is looking for its money for mediation. Wait, who's asking you for money to intercede for this bill? Does Bosko Ristic ask you for money to intercede for this law, Institute of Comparative Law, Boris Begovic, Gasa, Vodanelic? Is he looking for money to intercede? Here everything has its price, which is double. Serbian citizens believe that the government has stepped into a stream to its knees, taken out Fiat from somewhere, made a strategic contract, here, it has been several months and we hear some mediators are coming in. Well, I was suspicious as soon as that man came in a torn sweater to sign the contracts. I knew it was some kind of scam. You know what, you stop pulling those machines out of the flag drive. My advice to you, stop before something turns out. Who knows what's gonna turn out! If you've already initiated a trial for dispensing judges, finish the proceedings. During the proceedings, he is officially, by law enforcement, away from the judge's post. If you count that, because of the inflow of the case, you can conduct the discharge procedure, while allowing a man to judge, there is nothing to be done because the party will not have confidence in that decision of the court. They won't trust you. Why? How is it possible that you want a man out of court, and you're giving him the opportunity to judge, even though you got him out of court? If you've taken him out of business, where will he be tried? On the hockey, in front of the house? The one who's away from work because of the discharge procedure can't be in court. Is that right? How do you intend to end it, bring him back to court? To the hockey player, to continue the trial and finish the job?- I'm sorry. I'm not surprised you're letting the bankruptcy mob loose. Anything is possible when Bosko was able to place the pensioners as president of the courts. Bosko, watch out for that laptop, so you don't get electrocuted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8022	Thank you. Mr. Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by MP Judita Popovic is more than correct, objective and improves the text of the law, and makes it impossible, above all, to abuse the law and overstep constitutional principles. In Article 16, the duration of the distance, the judge shall step away from the post until the detention, the completion of the procedure for the resolution or termination of the criminal proceedings. Item 2 – a dangerous thing, contrary to the Constitution, because it derivates the Code of Criminal Procedure, because it does not involve either the prosecutor or the investigating judge. Madam Minister, who wrote, made a mistake on you. Can the High Council take over the judicial post? He can't. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribed the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary in Article 154. ''The High Council of the Judiciary elects and relieves judges, in accordance with the Constitution or law, proposes to the National Assembly the choice of judges during the first election of the judiciary, proposes to the National Assembly the election of the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Court of Justice, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, to take part in the procedure for the termination of office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the Court, in a manner provided for by the Constitution and by law, shall carry out other tasks of a certain law. '"This isn't a constitutional category. A colleague, a respected expert and a good lawyer, is behind him by Bosko and Konstantinovic, lawyers. In England, judges are recruited exclusively from the law because they have an exceptional education and they acquire it. Gentlemen, can the High Judicial Council put an end to detention? Is it possible to oppose a higher court of law to the High Court of Justice? We object to the prosecutor's dissent. This isn't a constitutional category. This is a very dangerous thing. The man who committed the crime, or suspected, has been ordered into custody. If he's being held in custody, it means that the High Judiciary Council believes he can continue to judge. It's a compromise of the judiciary. It's a mockery to Parliament. It's mocking the legislator. It can't be like this. This can't be allowed. Madam Minister, you are an extremely correct man and a minister. You're thinking logically. You are objective in many things, you have shown this objectivity directly here in Parliament. It is a rare minister who listens to MPs here all day, under the circumstances and in the state in which you are, which I respect, respect and appreciate. Please prevent a violation of the Constitution, prevent violation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Don't let the High Judiciary Council take over the role of a particular court. If one compromised, and nothing proven that he was released, that he was not proven guilty, he cannot be tried, because no decision, no decision, no judgment, will be accepted if it is later found that he committed a crime. His decisions cannot be legally valid. He can't continue to serve as a judge. It can't be done by the High Council of the Judiciary. It can only be in the jurisdiction of the competent court. If we're going to respect the Constitution and the law, Madam Minister, it's a good thing that my colleague Judith noticed, this should be deleted, because, otherwise, at a small door, we're introducing a judicial post to the High Council of Justice. I suggest you, you will be absolutely supported by the MPs, to accept the amendment because it is in place. He prevents the violation of the Constitution and the violation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8024	On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of Chapter II, behind Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Miss Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8025	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that I wanted, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, to have a termological effect on what the judges are going to do and what their constitutional obligation, in the name of the law, is to change from 'the immutability of the judge' to 'execution of the judge'. "The irrevocable of the judge" is something that is a constitutional category and you are right when you said that term was characterized by Article 150. The Constitution. This could not have been the reason for the refusal of my, or amendment of the SRS Parliamentary Group, because the unmovableness of the judge is something to be taken into account by the letter of the Constitution, but it is not an explicit provision – how it should be in the law. Our intention was to perform a judicial function, because that sounds better, to be described by this member, and it's not just a technical matter, but the whole article 18 talks about how judges perform their duties. You've stayed on this to keep that notion and that category of immigration like this. In one sentence, you rejected my amendment, but I will take this opportunity to talk about what my colleague Jojic was talking about, and a colleague of Judita, a colleague of Krasic, about the role of the High Judiciary Council, that is, its introduction and establishment, six years ago, in the Serbian judiciary. If you look and create a retrospective, from the time Mr Batic was Minister and our over fifty amendments to a set of his laws at the time, when we said that the High Council of the Judiciary would be independent, but a politicized judicial institution, we proved to be right. Who's sitting there? Who is it that can lobby, and who can make these solutions, which will certainly be reached by the letter of the law and by Article 18, by a particular judge? What does the Constitution say? He says that the inability of the judge is such that he has the right to serve as judge in the court for which he was elected and only with his consent can he be transferred or sent to another court. Item 2 of Article 150. The Constitution – in the event of the suspension of the court or of the principal part of the jurisdiction of the court for which he has been elected, the judge may, without his consent, be permanently transferred or referred to another court, in accordance with the law. It's this law. And for what? Because before this Law on Judges, we had a law on the regulation of courts, and the law on the regulation of courts has reduced the jurisdiction of courts, i.e. the future existence, to only 34 courts of general jurisdiction in Serbia and, of course, now, according to the letter of this law, many judges, will be transferred to other functions, according to the decision issued by the High Council of Justice. I mentioned the case of an Aryan, other colleagues - courts from the area where they came from. If we talk about this, the Municipality Court of Arangelovac has existed since 1953, there are nine judges, over 50 employees and in the year of the city's jubilee, which is being marked next year, since Milos Obrenovic founded the city of Arangelovac, it was beyond necessary for the court to remain in the city. You've decided, by law before, to abolish it and now the question is, what will happen to those nine judges from Arangelovec? Therefore, because of Articles 2, 3, 3 and 4 respectively, they will have to obtain a transfer solution. Where can they seek their prey and where can all these people, and there are dozens, or hundreds, of all these courts that are abolished in Serbia, seek their engagement? In these courts of general jurisdiction, such as the Kragujeva Court, will remain for the territory of almost the entire forest. Now we come to how justice works in Kragujevac and what happens there. This is not a negative ad, but, indeed, an example of the disrespect of the Constitution, the law, the judges, who have encumbered in crime, who absolutely respect nothing and who, apparently, will not, and despite all our warnings all these days, here, it has been going on for three weeks now, from the assembly pay phone, to call to mind, the right, the Constitution and the law. Madam Minister, in your blessed state, as counterpart Jojic said earlier, it is not appropriate to expect you to sit in a minister's car and start from one court to another in Serbia, especially to see the current situation and the case law. Here are the biggest scandals in the past month with the implementation of the Law on Local Elections and with the adoption of such criminal judgments. You certainly went and I believe that if you are able, you will continue to go, but you will not be able to go around every district court in Serbia. However, I ask you to, if you intend to do so at all during this next period, first hurry to Kragujevac, to see. First of all, you know that Miroljub Tomic is a member of the High Judicial Council, the President of the Kragujevac District Court, whose direct order I am sure of, as well as all Serbian radicals and honest citizens of Kragujevac who voted in favour of our electoral list, therefore, according to his direct order by the District Court judge in Kragujevac. Again, I will have to repeat the names of these six judges from these two judicial councils who participated in the kidnapping of ten mandates of Serbian Radicals, but when one of the worst judges, according to the assessment of his colleagues, a certain Grozda Arnaut, was elected to the office of the District Court judge in Kragujevac, therefore, from the municipality in the district, I asked then Minister Zoran Stojkovic – who is behind this Grode Arnaut, when everyone knows in the Kragujevljen Municipality court that this was the judge who, in addition to the antidate, invented the judgments and committed various abuses and in such a way, along with the direct lobby of Miroljub Tomic, came to the judge of the District Court? Some colleagues from your coalition, Kragujevac, disagreed with my assessment of individuals on this list, however, I cannot amnesty them with responsibility just because some part of the Kragujevac public, I think, above all, on the legal profession, legal or judicial, doesn't think of them. Every one of them falls for the exam and everyone has a motive for doing it. When it comes to one of the members of the Council, Judge Aleksandar Blanuša, and despite being familiar with it, if not from the municipal public prosecutor, whom Mr. Todorovic has properly handed over, as the authorised face of the Serbian Radical Party, 31 October, the criminal charges against Radovanka Nikolic, as the president of the First Council, Vesna Cvetkovic and Milunke Cvetkovic, and the Second Council – Obrena Jezdić, President of the Council, Simonida Miloradović and Aleksandra Blanuše, he went a step further into disregarding the law, as if he wanted to order to the Serbian Radical Party and us who are asking the government to react and to have the municipal prosecutor start working on this criminal application – I don't care what you say, I will harshly step on Article 49. The law on local elections, the Constitution. Call me as many as you want from the assembly booth, but behind me are Miroljub Tomic, Tomislav Nikolic, Boris Tadic, I can do whatever I want. Because, if he had come to his senses, the ex-wise mind, too, was Mrs. Minister, he would not have dared to, 15 days after such a scandalous verdict on the withdrawal of 10 parliamentary mandates to Serbian radicals, to teach a lesson at the appeal of the second Serbian Radical Party committee and the chairman of our Lapov committee, Mr. Zlatko Radic, for three parliamentary mandates from Lapov, which was founded, therefore, in his first submission, Mr. Radic is seeking the exemption of all these just-numbered six judges. He responds that Mr. Radic could not have done so and that his request was rejected as illegal, because of the fact that he is seeking a general exemption from the District Court judge in Kragujevac. As Mrs Radeta told me today, at a time when, however, it was hard to live in the country, but when she, as a deputy minister, and her colleague Jojic, as federal justice minister, visited courts and watched court practice be respected, not only could Mr Radic seek the exception of these judges, but also the exception of the court. Right? He could have said in his appeal that because, in a previous decision, six criminals, under the orders of Nikolic and Miroljub Tomic, took 10 mandates to Serbian radicals, no more trust in the Kragujeva District Court, as no more people do. Now they are already beginning to come up with various objections from the citizens of Kragujevac who, due to their cases, some have experienced personal tragedies, and because of such behaviour by the District Court judges in Kragujevac, can only complain to us, the Serbian radicals. We are persistent in our intention to protect, above all, the will of the voters and to defend the right, but you must do something, because if we inform the public, inform Mrs. Kolundji, share with your MPs who are members of the Committee on Justice and the Legislative Committee that scandalous verdict, and you do not respond, so what are we to talk about? At the same time, you're preparing for re-election of judges, establishing some clear codes at this counseling session. By the way, I've got to do a little dyspression. Mrs. Malovic, you know very well, before the first decision of the First District Court to activate the resignations of these traitors by us, the Serbian Radicals, there was counselling in Vrnjačka Banja and there was a position on the issue and Articles 47 and 49. Law on local elections. Then they set off: a test balloon, come on, Kragujevac first, and then they move on. We are now coming to Zemun, to the New Belgrade mandate. Now it's a strawberry county court. Only the tenacity of counterpart Radisa Ilic has today delayed making one such, or similar decision as that in Kragujevac, in the Jagodina District Court. Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, as part of all these calls for decent conduct by all judicial officials, prosecutors, etc., calls for us to fight both in the judiciary against crime and corruption. How are we supposed to do that when we're at the head of district courts crime like this and when we don't have a republican public prosecutor? Mr. Ristic, can you tell me what happened to Slobodan Radovanovic? How can he be able to serve as a member of the Republic Public Prosecutor for two years? He can't, not at all. Three journalists asked me today, maybe they asked you or one of you similar questions. People are surprised. What state are we talking about, what counterpart Markovic says, is he defending himself by silence or what, but we don't have a rule of law and legal protection? I'm not surprised. We'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll just, uh, Here, he calls this Milenić, a philosopher, whom you listen to and understand nothing he says, in seven days' time a session of the City of Kragujevac Assembly, with ten traitors and apostates, who, by his will and will of Stevanović, the criminal Tomic and these judges, will sit in the hall of the City Assembly. Nor will that session of the City Hall go so easily. You know, you can't mess with the seriousness of people who want to obey the law. I don't know what's unclear, Mrs. Malovic, in Article 49. Law on local elections. And to those who have never had contact with electoral practice, a constituent who only goes to the polls to use his electoral right, anyone who has never had contact with any law, when he reads, it's clear to him. That's how it should be interpreted, beautifully and clearly written Law, Judges and District Court in Kragujevac and these others, who made these decisions, but they won't. We can't keep our mouths shut in front of that fact. (President: Time. I'm done. Boris Tadic, as president of the state, will also do nothing, although he is watching and watching. And how it would be when a man's having a hard time. I know it's been difficult for him long ago, since May of this year I asked the question – what is the state and what is the health status of the President of the Republic, and I got an answer from Bozidar Djelic that he is excellent, but I found out that man is not well. (President: Time. I'm done. A few days ago, more specifically, on Thursday, they were representatives of Serbs, the Community of Kosovo and Metohija municipalities. Despite all the trouble, despite the fact that more than 2,000 members of the Eulex, police and judicial authorities have been deployed, he told people, therefore, that to Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, Boris Tadic said at the table: "People, it's harder for me than you." People look at him, they're under occupation, EULEX is behind their necks, and he says, "It's a lot harder for me, I'm a prisoner and a prisoner man, I don't have my life, I don't have my friends, I can't move." (President: Time. I'm done. With such a president of the state, we cannot expect to have a normal judiciary and respect for the will of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8026	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Slobodan Maras. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 28, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Slobodan Maras. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Verse of Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8027	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 30. The draft law on judges refers to the relationship between other services, affairs and proceedings with the judicial office. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have proposed that paragraphs 3 and 4 be deleted in Article 30. Article 3 states that the High Council of the judiciary decides which proceedings are contrary, at least to stand: the opposite, dignity and independence of the judge and harmful to the reputation of the court, based on the Ethics Code. The next position, whose erasure I have proposed, reads: "The judge may, outside of working hours, engage in teaching and scientific work without special approval, with compensation." In the light of the reasons for this amendment, it is not acceptable for the judge to have any involvement other than a judicial function, given the number of outdated and pending cases. Today, there were a lot of words and concrete information about how many outdated cases there are, according to municipal courts, by county courts. Of course, it was more of an argument to accept this amendment, at least in this section, which refers to, as fellow Jojic would say, the weighting of judges. The Government of the Republic of Serbia says: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons why legal solutions clearly define the relation of the judge's office to other services and jobs, as well as empowering the High Council of the judiciary to decide which proceedings the judges are hampered by the dignity and independence of the judge and harmful to the reputation of the court." So, in this bill, you're talking about an ethical code, and you heard it here on Thursday, I think that fellow Popovic spoke about the Court's ethical code in Zrenjanin, and these are mainly codes in all courts in Serbia. What's important about those ethical codes? Is the judge's wife gonna have open-toed shoes or not, is she gonna have something shorter on her skirt, or is she gonna have a dress or a shirt without a sleeve? Of course, some standards should be respected, that the judge should be represented in that sense. So, the judge can't, in any case, allow himself, even at the greatest heat etc., some dress that could, by traditional standards, be called rude, but we, ladies and gentlemen, are not the main problems with what these codes contain, as judges dress, whether they wash our hair, etc. I guess they all brought it from home. What does not stand in your codes, for example, you remember all Mrs. Nate Mesarovic, when she announced the verdict to the indictees for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, she began with: "We have received a verdict". That wasn't an accident. That's what the whole of Serbia has noticed. So far, it has remained unclear from whom she has received a concrete verdict. Maybe one day Nata Mesarovic will write memoirs, and we'll find out who gave her the text of the verdict. Also, in your code, it will not be contained and it is not contained what we in the Fifth Municipal Court colleagues Zoran Krasic and I experienced at one hearing, when Cane Subotić Žabac sued Vojislav Seselj for his alleged slander, and you have now issued an APB after Stanko Subotic for all that Vojislav Seselj said before he went to The Hague. That's when it happened next, to the astonishment of everyone who was in the courtroom and even of Subotic's lawyers. It is the case of Judge Danko Lausevic, Judge of the Fifth Municipal Court, otherwise, against this man, we have filed a motion against all possible addresses, in accordance with the law, to relieve the judicial functions for misbehaving, but of course, it did not see the light of the day, because he dared to condemn Vojislav Seselj to probation. Now I ask you, Madam Minister, what is the fate of the appeal, because that object never came out of the drawer again? We were able to find out that, on some level, from the Fifth Court, he made it to Fourth. What happens next, we don't know. Tom Danko Lausevic, in the middle of the hearing, calls his cell phone and answers his phone loudly, says – hey, love, something hurts my tooth, and here I have some discussion; well, well, love. The lawyers of Canet Subotic and all of us were baptized. Such a man is not subject to any ethical code. He's still a respected judge to you. It's something you can't solve, it's something that's ruining your reputation. Such individuals are corrupting the reputation of the great number of honorable, moral, and honest judges who want to judge by law. Today, Ognjen Mihajlovic spoke of a dispute that he and his family have led, did not want to mention the name, given that it takes 12 years, so that the procedure would not last much longer. It's a lawsuit. We know which judge it's about. We know it's a party, a "yellow" judge, who gets all the items that come from Zemun municipality, where the defendant or prosecutor of the SRS, Zemun municipality, one of the party officials, etc. She's been subscribed to those jobs. You want all judges to be like these pearls of yours, which, with their pearls, I presented here, or, perhaps, those from the Belgrade District Court. They repeat their names, these are judges: Mirjana Aragelovic, Dusica Marinkovic, Mirjana Rdjički, Sladjana Bojovic, Zeljko Skorić, Zivana Djukanovic. These are the two major Belgrade District Court judges who made different judgments on the same circumstances. I showed it in the morning, and now I repeat it for the public, first of all, because of the legal public, because of the judges who, I'm convinced, are following Parliament's work, because now it's their skin and we fully understand them. We therefore recommend that only the SRS fight and advocates that there be no summary, no lustration, but that the issue of judicial reform be done in a completely different way, which will be satisfied with all the judges and all the parties in court proceedings. So, these two verdicts, I didn't know this morning, and in the meantime I got information, they came from the "Contact", and that's what you know, the Novobeos and the Zemuns, the coffee shop on the border between New Belgrade and Zemun. Three days ago, at one o’clock in the afternoon, the cafe had Vukic and Gilas sitting there telephoned and decided what sort of verdicts should be made and found barely the judges who listened to them. This morning I said, there was a general chaos at the Palace of Justice. I believe you all know that, no matter what you're pretending to know now, you have no idea what you're talking about here. Will this ethical code of yours regulate, for example, the question of the judge, a certain Snezana Stojanovic from the Second Municipal Court, who is the investigative judge in the case of Miladin Kovacevic? A few days ago, Thursday, I think we talked to this young man's parents. They asked us to ask through you, Mrs Malovic, and, above all, to inform the public. One question is, why was Miladin Kovacevic, who was otherwise reported to The Tower, brought to Belgrade? How did the Belgrade detention take place? Of course, on fraud, he's literally a kidnapped boy. How did the cameras of TV B92, when neither his parents nor him nor anyone alive know that someone would come from Belgrade to take him to Belgrade? If they didn't want to keep him in The Tower, why didn't they do it in Somboro? The legal basis of this case, which he allegedly has not arrived from America yet. This Miladin Kovacevic reported to the MUP neatly the moment he arrived from America and there was no reason to kidnap him the way it was done. It's obviously a political process. He's been given custody so he doesn't affect the witnesses. Witnesses are on U.S. territory, a very interesting explanation. That Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic of the Second Municipal Court has ordered him 30 days in custody, and in the meantime, I think he is now running out of 30 days, no investigation has been conducted. That's why his parents have reliable data that this process is seriously involved with a public prosecutor in V.D. state, this Radovanovic, this one whether a deputy or assistant, Homen and Manter. Believe it or not, it's a threesome dealing with the Miladin Kovacevic case. We could not see on any media what is only Tanjug, as an agency news, announced that the suspension of the investigation against Miladin Kovacevic was being considered. Of course, it's not interesting for the media in Serbia, because they only deal with what they get as a warrant that they have to perform and which they perform neatly. So, everything I've been saying so far has been about the necessity of eradicating Article 3, Article 30, and when it comes to Article 4, you yourself, Madam Minister, have been giving information about 4,300 items that have become obsolete these days. This should, of course, take one day, and very quickly, be the subject of a serious analysis – which objects are outdated for objective reasons, which deliberately, did someone take some money there, did they not. It can't just be said -- we have 4,300 outdated criminal cases, and that's why we have to reform the judiciary. What about those 4,300 outdated items? Eat the cat. It can't, but we have to have one serious analysis, literally, by the number of cases, how long it took, where the judge was, where the prosecutor was. It must be one of our measurements in the election of judges and prosecutors. Don't make it happen that someone who has ten outdated cases is like that and that, in accordance with this Article 30, performs a judicial function, and that someone, just because he's not party-like, loses the ability to do the job. So, on behalf of all those honorable, honest people, judges who want to work in accordance with the law, withdraw this law. It's a hell of a law. You will, Mrs. Malovic, believe, unconsciously, chaos in the judiciary, if this law really comes to life.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8028	According to the Rules of Procedure, he has the word Mr. Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8029	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President of the National Assembly, I ask you, through the competent Supreme Court, the district court and the municipal court, to request a notice of this case of Ms. Verica Radeta, the SRS MP. I ask for a notice – on the basis of which legislation is based the local and actual jurisdiction of the Belgrade court in relation to Miladin Kovacevic, whose detention is against the law and against the constitution? In Article 30. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which speaks of local jurisdiction, states that if a crime scene is not known, or if it is outside Serbia's territory, the competent court in whose territory the defendant is resident. Miladin Kovacevic has no residence in Belgrade's territory. Therefore, the court in whose territory the accused has residence and residence, if the proceedings have been initiated, remains in charge. Furthermore, in a concrete case, the Democratic Party of America commands the Democratic Party in Serbia and orders that Miladin Kovacevic be arrested. Irregularity in the O.R. Yes, dear, esteemed colleagues. I beg you, read these provisions. Yes, yes, Democrats, they order these. They say – there is no problem, there is no problem, there is no problem, there is no problem. I am here addressing the Assembly and the President of the Assembly and I am asking for a notice – on the basis of which legislation is it, in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, a local and real jurisdiction in the case of Miladin Kovacevic? This isn't an accident. Here, let me explain. When the former president's wife intervened, and she belongs to the Democratic Party, and we know that now in Serbia, the coalition of the Democratic Party is in power -- you cannot conclude otherwise, by any chance. I would not agree to have a foreign citizen arrested in our territory and delivered to such a court. (President: Time, Mr. Jojic) I'm finishing up. All I ask is that we get a notice – how did the competent municipal court, the Belgrade District Court, establish real and local jurisdiction? If I may, two words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8030	There will be a forward question, but you're already talking 30 seconds longer, please. There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8031	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 104th, and I really must say, is the astounding reaction of DS MPs. I really can't understand you. Let's leave the political divisions now, the shootings, the position, the opposition, but please, people, think about it a little bit. What kind of state are we in where it's possible for a state authority to kidnap and commit a crime? My people, come on, think about it. You know, there's no one among you who didn't once read what was done in 1945. Do you think this is any difference? The only difference is that Mr. Kovacevic wasn't killed, that's all. But do you take care of your own interests? Do you think if someone makes such a precedent, it's not possible to do it again? It's possible. It's possible, but then you lose your legitimate right to stand up and protest in any way against it, and that's the way it is for you. It's a manners to remind you. It's not worth it, they put that in some's ear for free, when nothing touches his brain – for nothing. They tell him, and everything, but it's not worth it – between two ears, empty space, that's the problem. You did the same thing when Radovan Karadzic was arrested. You arrested a foreign citizen, kidnapped him. You held him for 72 hours and broke the Constitution and the law. You were obliged to bring him into the Special Prosecutor's Office, so you could inform the embassy whose citizen he is, so you could give him the opportunity to turn the phone around, call, call his family, call his legal representative. You didn't do it. The question arises, at all – who arrested Radovan Karadzic? Here, there are members of the Defence and Security Committee from the Democratic Party. The answer we got from BIA, not that it's funny, it's pathetic, it's amazing that the director of BIA is writing that kind of answer. Remember Sartida, one of the biggest robberies. Do you know how sales were done? Just like Mr. Kovacevic was arrested. (President: Time) Here I am, finishing up, as Karadzic was arrested. They changed the jurisdiction of the Chamber of Commerce in Pozarevec and transferred, i.e. they did not "Sartid" – it was a little harder, but they transferred the case to the Commercial Court in Belgrade and thus one of the biggest robberies in Serbia since 2001. You're laughing at it all, so it's amazing. Good, they took this off your ear, but it doesn't help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-24-0.u8032	Madam Minister, Mr. Cosic, honourable Members of the People, we will continue our work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 124 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, that there are more than one third of the MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Nikola Novakovic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the sittings to be attended by Mr Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and Mr Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE JUDGE LAW (resumption in particular) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Balint Pastor appeared.
