ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9692	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, that there are more than one third of the MPs and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for today's session to be attended by Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a COURT OF COURTS AND SOURCES OF COURT AND PUBLIC AUTHORITIES (the follow-up in detail) we have reached Article 7. The amendment to article 7 was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic, but Mr Dragan Todorovic first appeared in his office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 27 - President of the National Assembly chaired by the session of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly – and by Article 85. First of all, Mrs. Dejanovic, I ask you a very simple question: what day is it? You don't know, do you? Yesterday, your colleague, who chaired the assembly, didn't know that. Please answer me what day it is. (President: I feel like you're joking, I'm time-oriented. Mrs. Dejanovic, I apologize, I know you're asking questions like this to your patients, but don't take it that way. I understand that, but don't take it any way to understand it. I'm seriously asking you, what day is today? (President: Tuesday. Explain to me, Mrs. Dejanovic... (President: We will not have dialogue, not allowed, business is not allowed. ) Please be patient, the Rules of Procedure are very precise and I will be on the basis of Rules of Procedure, Rule 85... I think I've done everything in line with how a member of the Rules of Procedure is advertised. Article 85, paragraph 1, says - National Assembly held a debate on draft laws, development plans, etc., adopted by the National Assembly on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 10.00 and 18:00 hours, with an end of one hour. Mrs. Dejanovic, since you were not in the Assembly, let me inform you that we had a break from 02:00 tonight until 10.00 today. Therefore, in the most harsh way possible is broken Rules of Procedure. On what grounds did Mrs Gordana Comic extend Monday's session on Tuesday without having had a single chance to do so according to the Rules of Procedure? I'm asking a simple question. By the end of the session, tension and all could have led to an incident. I ask you a very simple question: on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure has the person you have appointed to hold a session of the Assembly extended the session to two hours last night? Please, I'm really warning you not to violate the Rules of Procedure in such a brutal way. You're humiliating the congregation, you're putting the situation and the one who's chairing the assembly so he just can't... (President: Time, Mr. Todorovic. )......................................................................................................... that he is unable to do so in the usual manner provided for by the Rules of Procedure, you are forcing him to violate the Rules of Procedure. I'll explain on several occasions how yesterday's session was going and what was going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9694	First came Miss Vice President Natasa Jovanovic, and then the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Aligrudic, answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9695	We need to say something about this violation of the 27th and 85th because we had a problem with it last night – not last night, but tonight. Please, if you can, let me finish this exposure. They say these from the ruling majority -- they can't, but let's see. So I think there's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in two ways. First of all, you, Madam President, violated the Rules of Procedure when you extended your work yesterday until the end, you didn't even say that until the end of the agenda point, you simply extended the work after 1800 hours, and before 16.00 hours, by not respecting the provision of article 4, Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, and you have not listed to the MPs who are justified reasons why the work is being extended. That provision is not regularly respected and we regularly go over it, because if we talk about this provision it's practically petty, that's what we've been thinking so far. You don't have to make a cut. If someone didn't say these valid reasons, they're supposed to exist, so we didn't react to it. But you really had to say that formally, according to the Rules of Procedure. When work is already being extended until the end of the period which is on the agenda at 6 p.m., the work cannot be extended after 00.00 hours, i.e. after the calendar end of that day, because it is clearly referred to by all provisions of Article 85, and at the end of the "three hits" or "the basket knocks" the provision of item 6 which says, "The extension of the session after 16.00 hours is required to inform the National Assembly no later than 16.00 hours on the day of the session for which it proposes an extension of work. "It is quite clear that the work can be extended for that day, and we entered the next working day, whether it is one hour or two in the morning. Why did it happen before after 00.00 and no one made any remarks? Once we, when we were the ruling majority, tried to do it, I think it was in 2004, and from the largest parliamentary group at the time, the Serbian Radical Party, we suffered defeat. We couldn't do that job that night. Later there were more cases when we extended the work and worked after midnight and it was always and only in situations where the opposition would agree to it. What's out of this? That in the case of the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, when reasons for the extension were not stated after 1800 hours, we quietly agreed and, under two, when the opposition also quietly or openly agreed to work after midnight, aware that the Rules of Procedure had been violated. It's the only two options... (President: Please bring the end. )......................................................................................................... that happened when we worked. If there is no agreement, as was said last night, about this, then there is no way to violate these two provisions of the Rules of Procedure. It had to be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we pointed out last night, and we have no intention of continuing this, but we had to draw attention to what happened last night and warn you. (President: Please bring the end, I understand. Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9696	Dear People's MPs, since we are in the same composition, 250 of us, about these points of the agenda I can always give a formal explanation. Reform in the judiciary is a necessary condition for the Serbian state's continued good functioning. It's a prerequisite for the adoption of this set of laws that are on the agenda. The application of some of these laws from 1 January 2010 does not mean that we do not need to do very urgently what is the prerequisite or the first link in the chain of all events that are going to meet this reform. My assessment and assessment of the largest number of MPs is that it is a legislative matter that is extremely important. We started this session on December 5th. To work more efficiently, of course we shouldn't be working until 00.00 hours. We're the ones who make the atmosphere work till midnight and by two o'clock in the morning, and I think the citizens are very good at estimating it. Please be effective today, so we don't work at a time when the concentration is dropping and when it's not right to work. We can absolutely do it. We're gonna finish this session and we're gonna get the budget this year. Mr. Todorovic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I am re-advertising Article 27 and Article 121. I don't know if you've had the chance, but we've been pointing to problems tonight because of these parliamentary units on the benches and their imperfection and manipulation of these parliamentary units. We've come to the point that whoever warns of manipulation should be declared responsible, his word taken from him. They're about to blow their sentences. Now it turns out that we who want to point out problems are to blame, that we are to stop that path of yours in Europe, to stop the adoption of reform laws, etc. We just insist on doing business. It is not our fault that something does not work or meets the needs of this congregation. Mrs. Verica Radeta had just come out because of this problem, the chairman took away her word, because it was obvious that there were many more MPs in the hall, according to the one on the screen than there were. She pointed out that fact and she was taken from her word. Then I simply tried to explain to Mrs. Komic that it was possible, because these MPs are who they are. But Gordana Comic took away my word as well. Now I'm demonstrating it again, Mrs. Dejanovic. At the place where I'm sitting, you see my card that's in there, by the book. If you look at the screen, you will see that on the screen it says that this MP unit is empty, or that there is no card. According to your logic, as you already measure efficiency or time spent in the Assembly, it turns out that I am not present. If I point to that, you resort to the only possible way – to punish me for pointing to problems. I ask you to do certain things so that they do not happen, and do not violate the Rules of Procedure. These parliamentary units are not technically designed to truly show the situation in the Serbian Parliament, and I would ask that you, in accordance with your powers, take everything to make sure in future that the number of MPs in the Serbian Parliament is true. Thank you very much. I'm sorry about the overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9698	Miss Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9699	Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really feel the obligation, as vice president of the Assembly, and as someone who has been working with you in a proper manner all this time, to tell you that they are a broken member of 60. Constitution, Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, Article 222, because of the fact that the chairman, at that time Gordana Komic, was making a call over the MPs. The law on mobbing is in the works and I have been paying attention to all that Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić has so far spoken in the media during the public debate and it is obvious that Mrs. Comic, first of all by SRS MPs, and I believe that DSS MPs, will come under the influence of this law. We are in constant work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it has violated our right to work under Article 60. The constitution is because in the state of Serbia everyone is guaranteed the right to free choice of work and work. When we received the trust of Serbian citizens on the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj we freely entrusted our mandates and decided, in line with the opportunities provided by the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the applicable laws, to establish a working relationship in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I can't know what the percentage of Members of Parliament are at full-time, but this is our job and we are sent here by the people, to protect the interests of the citizens at all times. Mrs Gordana Comic not only committed psychologically and every other terror against MPs in the deaf of the night, at two o'clock after midnight, but contrary to the Law on Labour, the Constitution, and the future law on mobbing, she punished the MPs in order to take away the opportunity for them to act with their work, as we Serbian radicals have done for so many years, diligently, hardworkingly, for the benefit of citizens, for their interests, to protect the poor, pensioners, farmers, those you left out of work, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija who tonight are in fear that EULEX has set out with the deployment of its forces, contrary to the will of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija and of the whole patriotic Serbia. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you are responsible for this. When you choose who will replace you, as referred to in Article 31. Rules of Procedure, you must make sure that, in accordance with our work and all other abilities, you choose the person who is worthy to change you, Slavica Djukić-Dejanović. Everything was fine as Mr. Nikola Novakovic chaired; the man led the meeting according to what you said and told him. At that moment Gordana Comic appeared and in the manner of senior first-class sergeant, as long ago defined by counterpart Milorad Mircic began to terrorise and harass the MPs. In that sense, I ask that the Assembly in the voting day declare whether Gordana Komic violated Article 1, and these are the rights and obligations of our Members of Parliament, and Article 106, when, contrary to this Rules of Procedure, you can read this carefully in position 1 in the fifth indent and attitude 2, I have issued two warnings because, in accordance with my rights and obligations, I have represented the interests of the citizens on behalf of the SRSi Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9700	Your proposal will be implemented in the voting day. Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9701	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I call on Article 27. Rules of Procedure, first indent. In order for you to understand the seriousness of the situation, and above all to understand what it is, you as the President of the National Assembly may not have been directly at the occasion, but by doing this function you must know that the President of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 114(4), has sworn: "I swear to all my strengths to preserve the sovereignty and overall territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohija as its component, as well as the achievement of human and minority rights and freedoms, respect and defence of the Constitution and law, the preservation of peace and prosperity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that I will secure and responsibly fulfil all my duties. "It is an oath that binds Boris Tadic as president of the Republic. There is another provision here, and it is an obligation that extends over all of us, both to the MPs and to the government. That is the obligation of Article 182nd position 2: "The Republic of Serbia has AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija. The essential autonomy of AP Kosovo and Metohija will be governed by a special law adopted under the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. "These are very precise provisions, not to mention the preamble and some other provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for which you too, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, are required to apply them, to ask those who should apply it. Why did I tell you this? I said because yesterday there was a group of people who wanted to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, in the image of you dear Bernard Kushner, and he said the following... Answering the question which laws will be applied after Eulex Kouchner arrived, he stressed that Kosovo laws will be applied. I quote: "Kosovo has recognised more than 50 countries, so Kosovo laws will apply. I think there will be difficulties, but this operation will allow a framework in which it will take place and the agreement with Serbia will be decisive," Kusner said. How is this agreement implemented in Serbia? By the government of the Republic of Serbia, DS, Boris Tadic, Miki Rakic, Vukadinovic, Bogdanovic block the vote of a resolution condemning the Eulex mission by the National Assembly. (President: Time. I rested these three hours, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9702	Mr. Krasic, I've allowed you to extend your time so as not to abuse the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Samardzic, then Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9703	Reporting under Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Dear People's MPs, today is the first day of the implementation of Ahtisaari's plan in Kosovo and Metohija. What may be even more difficult than that fact is that the plan is implemented with the approval and consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's state authorities have not officially responded to the matter, but believe they have covered themselves with some presidential statement by the Security Council since 26 November. What is a fact is that the plan is tasked with overseeing Kosovo's independence. It is Eulex, which is today deployed across Kosovo and north of Ibra, at crossings one and 31 at the administrative line between Serbia and Kosovo, that he is actually starting to monitor Kosovo's independence. It's clear to everyone and it's clear to the state authorities. In any case, Serbia has started to turn its head and keep quiet about these things, but there are a number of citizens of Serbia who are not silent about this, but are working very actively. What's the problem is that the media in Serbia don't publish it, that the Assembly doesn't react and that the state authorities don't react to it. That is my question and request for an explanation by the president of the National Assembly, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. First, three or four weeks ago in Kosovo and Metohija, more than 75,000 signatures were collected by Serbian citizens who do not recognise independent Kosovo and who believe Serbia is their country. These signatures have been handed over to the President of the Republic, but I cannot ask him a question, and to the President of the National Assembly. Secondly, several days ago, more precisely last Thursday, the Community Assembly of municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija was held and the assembly reached five clear conclusions on Eulex. The assembly is the most legitimate and democratic body of Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. You know how it was created – based on choice. She works under difficult conditions because the state doesn't give her money, but she works regularly. She had a meeting last week about it, she made very clear conclusions. No media in Serbia has published those conclusions. The media are under pressure from the state, government and is not allowed to know the truth about what Serbian citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija think of Eulex. Seven thousand signatures were given here. The assembly's made a decision, that's not what you're talking about. Of course, we'll talk about it when it comes to the agenda, which we only got because we called on Article 130. The constitution, otherwise we wouldn't be able to talk about Kosovo in this assembly. So my question is, Madam President of the Assembly, what are you going to do with 75,000 signatures? Why do you think they're giving? Putting them in a drawer or saying something about them? The 75,000 signatures clearly talk about the position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and other citizens who recognise Serbia about Eulex, but it is about continuing the process, not keeping quiet and putting it in media darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9704	Mr Samardzic, you are leading a large group of MPs and you have initiated a agenda item and a mistrust session. I'm sure you'll ask the government all these questions and you'll have an explanation. Obviously, there is reason for the government to explain its position. He'll be public. I invite you to have this session as effective as possible, so that we can realize the already scheduled session regarding the government's trust. It's obvious that the question you're asking me about what I can do, we all have to ask the government together. Mr. Aligrudic first, then Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9705	I understand all the explanations you gave, Madam President, and I can respect them, but I would ask you to respect us in the part where we have to do this morning, given that today is December 9th, the first day of the official introduction of EULEX to KIM, or on Serbia's territory, to act. We will not do so beyond the measure that would in any way endanger the regular work of the National Assembly, but simply some questions must be asked. In addition to these questions that Mr Samardzic just asked, I have to ask another one. It's been months since this painful debate about Eulex. For months, the ruling coalition, headed by Boris Tadic, has deceived us that the condition for the implementation of Eulex is not implementing Ahtisaari's plan. For months, people from Eulex have denied them by claiming that this is exactly the reason for this mission, that simply the legal system that rests on the constitution of the so-called Constitution. The independent republic of Kosovo is also applied to follow the laws that have been passed along with this constitution. It's the mission's only mission. What is now used here to further confuse citizens is to take over some six points, which are the surrogates of some six points that we once suggested and which, of course, here in a complete comedy, when it comes to conditioning the arrival of the Eulex mission. When it comes to interpreting those six points, we can only read about it in the paper. That's my question: how is it possible... We'll ask the government, of course, the day there's a debate about the government's trust, but we have to ask it this morning, and it would be good if we could get an answer in the course of the day, even from Mr. Cvetkovic, if he came to the National Assembly, because there were some words, an announcement that he might show up today to discuss the budget. There's some kind of, no offense, fahidiotism, to talk about economy and some things from the position of Prime Minister, and not to talk about this essential thing, we can't understand it either. The question is very simple: how is it possible for these last month or at least from the day that this agreement was made, if not before, about so-called. The conditions for the arrival of the Eulex mission and their verification before the Security Council, how is it possible that MPs, elected by citizens, do not receive an official document with the accompanying explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the meaning of what was agreed in the implementation itself? That's my question, and I ask you to pass on that question and, if possible, I get an answer to that question today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9706	The question will be passed on to the Government and we will ask that during the day, or we will ask that we receive an answer during the day. First Mrs. Radeta, then Mr. Krasic, then again, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Tonight, Madam President, we had here a manifestation of force and threats by the ruling coalition. Although there were only 34 MPs from the congregation's majority, they wanted to show us tonight how they could do whatever they wanted and how they would know what to do to us, because it was literally that behavior. While my colleague Ljuba Kragovic here, about an hour after midnight, talked about what we are talking about today, which is the deployment of the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija, one of your MPs was trying to challenge the incident so that the whole story would turn to another side. We don't complain about what we've been doing until two o'clock. We can work two days if we have to. We are ultimately committed to Serbia's citizens to meeting everything they ask of us, but the question is what we are discussing and the question is why the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is not respected, as it was last night, or as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was not respected. This morning, Mrs. Dejanovic, with some half smile, I wrote, "We can do this, we'll finish the session and we'll start a budget session." It's a kind of threat, the way you said it. You must respect the Rules of Procedure. You just told Mr Samardzic that he represents a large group of MPs and that he will be able to speak here, asking ministers questions about Eulex and Kosovo and Metohija. And what about the motion for a resolution, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, related to Kosovo and Metohija, which we have submitted since June of the month, minors daily, SRS lawmakers have asked to discuss it? You're over it. You've put us in a position to have the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija today, and it's happening exactly as we predicted - that you're bringing us into the final act situation. What does Solana say this morning? The news is being reported, Solana says it is good to move in line with Ahtisaari's plan for the Eulexa mission in Kosovo and Metohija, as it says Kosovo will meet European requirements in this way. Is that what you wanted? (President: Time. ) I end up, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, but this is a question for both Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, for you, for the parliamentary majority, for the government of the Republic of Serbia – what did you do, why didn't you let us direct you, not to allow the application of Ahtisaari's plan in Kosovo and Metohija, which, unfortunately, is already happening today?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9708	Mrs. Radeta, you asked me a few questions, practically. As you are a large group that has the right to realize everything that is in line with the Rules of Procedure and the interests of the citizens you represent, you must allow another large group, the parliamentary majority, to have responsibility for the citizens who have elected it. On behalf of that group, I said that we would work on both the budget and the agenda, or the points on the agenda of this session, not to provoke you, but simply to send a message to those who were for this other group that there was a group here. There's no reason to be irritated. Secondly, you know very well why we did not bring the resolution on Kosovo. Because the resolution on Kosovo was supposed to manifest one of the most significant objectives of the functioning of this Parliament and the state – our national and national interest – and it was not good to talk about it and to send a message to our citizens and to the world that we have two views on it. That was the reason and until we agreed that this resolution would unite all our wishes for the province of Kosovo to be an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and that, in that sense, we should make a resolution, until that moment, we will work on trying to make that statement with the number of MPs we have, otherwise, made that resolution. You know it well and that's the only reason. Mr. Krasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9709	After these words you have spoken, and you will see in the stenogram what you have said, all you have left is to resign, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. I need to draw your attention so you don't even know what article 27 says. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that you do not know that you are applying it but, as I have long been communicating with citizens, so look, citizens, and hear the text of the oath taken by Boris Tadic: "I swear that I will dedicate all my forces to the preservation of the sovereignty and integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohija as its component. " (President: Mr. Krasic, you just read that text. You read that text and you won't be able to read it again. The MPs heard him, you reminded us of that text. You don't have a word to read on that text, you just read it ten minutes ago. () Excuse me, please, by what part of the rulebook can you influence my style of exposure? Why are you being stabbed when you read the Constitution? Are you ashamed of this member of the Constitution? (President: Please don't flaunt with me, I'll punish you. So you caused controversy. (President: I give you a reminder. Why? (President: 'Cause you're breaking up with me. Why are you interrupting me while I'm talking? (President: Please don't let me give you the punishment to move on, but don't read the text you've already read. You insult the MPs, you remind us of this text, we know it, and I ask you to use your time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to advertise it. Here you go. I've applied to Article 27. I have no intention of reading article 27 to you. The Rules of Procedure, because you just don't accept what it says there. You don't even accept what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But what is accepted here in the National Assembly? It's accepted by that kind of primitive when voted from Bodrum, that kind of protest when voted from Thessaloniki, that kind of anti-civilization behavior, and tomorrow it's human rights day. How are human rights protected in the National Assembly? What about the human rights of the people of Kosovo and Metohija? What did we get to see for these two days? On Sunday, dear president holds the tide in Subotica, sends Vukic to Knin, sends Nikolic here to make justice and give lectures to some; he burns Viskoza in Loznica, EULEX is deployed, there is no talk. What do we have next? Message: Defend your jobs, judges and prosecutors, you have a stand-by year to reconsider your relationship with the Democratic Party. Djelic has a performance in Nis on Sunday with inventors; the opposition part of the Democratic Party threatens, insults. Why? So we don't know what's going on in the country. Meanwhile, 2,000-page criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic have disappeared, the case was lost in court. You want to move on? The Irish miracle broke, the Irish demonstrated, strike, the whole world rebelled. We are forbidden in the National Assembly to mention... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Kosovo and Metohija, and it is forbidden to say that the President of the Republic has severely violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that is why the procedure should be initiated. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9710	Mr. Samardzic has his word. I'm sorry, only Mr. Dragan Todorovic before you, so you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 27 that says, "The President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution. "Mrs. Djukic, let me remind you of the Constitution, Article 106, which says: "The first regular session begins on the first working day of March, and the second regular session begins on the first working day of October. A regular session cannot last longer than 90 days. The National Assembly shall meet in an extraordinary session at the request of at least one third of the Members of Parliament or at the request of the Government, with a predetermined agenda. "Mrs. Dejanovic, it is obvious that you intended to bring Serbia into this situation today. You knowingly violated the Rules of Procedure and knowingly violated the Constitution, and that is now completely obvious. You were obliged to place the resolution tabled by 108 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia immediately on the agenda and that the Assembly is by majority vote or not to vote. However, since you were in advance aware of the fact that you would not vote in favour of the resolution, but you intended to deceive and deceive Serbian citizens, you knowingly violated the Constitution. During that time, you were taking other steps that were going in that direction, which was that we would lead our main focus of our fight for Kosovo and Metohija on the diplomatic plan, to visit all the countries that would support us in making a resolution in the United Nations that would determine whether international law was violated or not. Basically, that resolution that was passed was just supposed to buy time, to get into this situation that we're in today, because that resolution doesn't mean anything. The International Court's opinion in The Hague absolutely does not oblige anyone. We have spent valuable time, and during this time the European Union and America, the representatives of America, have secretly negotiated with our government (which we have regularly informed you about) and have done everything to ensure that the Eulexa mission is deployed in Kosovo and Metohija today. You have roughly deceived the citizens of Serbia. To inform you that at all administrative crossings, the flag of the United Nations has been removed. Kosovo and Metohija are no longer under the United Nations, but under the occupation of the European Union, which, according to the Martti Ahtisaari plan, strengthens Kosovo and Metohija's independence and that is why you bear historical responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9712	Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9713	Answer me, please, if you're in the mood.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9714	I am fully in the mood to answer that and how I respect the Constitution. Please, I respect the Constitution and I hold that the Constitution is the act that respects and the highest leadership of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9715	Dear Madam President of the Assembly, in this matter I have asked a question or asked for an explanation, you do not need to justify yourself with the Government. In fact, 75,000 signatures didn't even reach the government. The Prime Minister has not granted them admissions in a month, how much they've been asked to receive them and to hand them over to him. The signatures are to be handed over to you and the President of the Republic. According to the Rules of Procedure, I could only ask you that question. What is the problem I wanted to point out is that this assembly was not on your part to receive information on the fact that 75,000 signatures of Serbian citizens from Kosovo and Metohija who recognise Serbia and do not recognise independent Kosovo, as their efforts to find out in Serbia what is actually being done there. It's your failure, not your government's failure. The government's failure is that it has turned its head from this topic, to the extent that it has not found fit to receive representatives from Kosovo and the signatures they have collected on that behalf. So here is the responsibility of the President of the Assembly, not the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9716	Mr Samardzic, the entire public has been informed that, as president of the assembly, I have received the council members from Kosovo who have handed over indeed the number of signatures you are talking about. And not only that, there were those in that delegation sitting right there, in your parliamentary benches. So it is unlikely, if the entire public had been informed, because it was accompanied and the media reported, that the MPs had no such information. So I've also received everything I've promised and what I've been asked to do, but I don't think it's right to manipulate these people's wishes through the replicas and the communication we have between us. I'm ready to talk to you about this later. First Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9717	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating the violation of Article 27, but not the 3rd, which says that the President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Namely, in one of the address or response to the presentation of individual MPs, you said that the motion for a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which was submitted by 108 MPs, did not put on the agenda because there is no agreement on politics towards Kosovo and the Metohija in this assembly. It's really amazing... (President: Mr Palalic, I'm sorry to interrupt, I don't know if it's understood, I said we made a deal to make efforts to take a unique position, and representatives of those 108 MPs and other groups that don't belong to that number. ) On the one hand, you are obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure, which means that there is an official proposal of 108 MPs, and that effort, with the keen absence of any initiative by the ruling majority to reach an agreement, has been going on for four or five months. For five months now -- with a soft effort, with every kind of avoidance to discuss this important issue daily, it does not have to be at the tide, but at the consultations -- we have not come to the situation to discuss the policy that is being conducted in this country on Kosovo and Metohija. If the fact is respected that there is a huge difference in how the state of Serbia should lead politics towards Kosovo and Metohija, primarily according to the fact that a single act is happening today which is the final stage of the plans of certain Western states to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija from the state of Serbia, then it was your duty, regardless of the difference, even though in the previous period, during the previous governments we had agreement on the most important directions of state policy, to present these differences here, to bring the public of Serbia to know that there is no consensus between the position and the opposition on Kosovo and Metohija and to see what this difference is, regardless of what the revote would be. But we have come to the situation that the National Assembly, the highest state body in this country, is not discussing Kosovo and Metohija. Only the National Assembly does not discuss Kosovo and Metohija, all other authorities are involved in what is happening, completely unconstitutional, in the area of our southern province. There's your responsibility. You had to, regardless of the political differences and differences in the policy of individual parties when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, put that point on the agenda... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... so let these differences come out, let the citizens see how individual political parties see Kosovo and Metohija and what their relationship to what is happening today – the deployment of Eulex and the real application of Ahtisaari's plan, which is the result of the cryptopolitical process that has been going on in this country since the new government was formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9718	Mr. Palalic, I'm sorry that your memories of the near events are either damaged or you just don't want to remember. You really don't want to remember that I put on the agenda the point you're talking about, that I suggested it by emergency procedure, that most of it was decided that it wasn't going to work that way, and I just explained the reasons that most of the reasons that we decided to put the agenda point in the second atmosphere, when certain arrangements were made, on the agenda. So you've put a note to me that I didn't put your proposal as a agenda item on the agenda. That's just not true. Now I'm going to take your exact date when it was on the agenda. It's not right that we're trying to get any points on this issue. You know that by emergency procedure, the point was proposed and you know what it was like and why the congregation majority's response was the way it was. That's all I've explained. Mr. Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9719	Article 27. Madam President, I cannot agree with your answers. If you hadn't given such answers, as before, to what Mr Samardzic and what Mr Palalic said, I wouldn't have answered now. You see, you can't talk to us this way. The resolution, which was proposed by 108 MPs, was to enter the procedure. The truth is that you put it on the agenda and the ruling majority took it off, because it's a simple political trick; you've carried out your obligation under the Rules of Procedure, the ruling majority decided to take it off the agenda, you've now cited the motives – that it was because it was wanted by political agreement, so that the vast majority of MPs would adopt the common text of the resolution. However, while you are already giving explanations, you must go to the end. We insisted that the Serbian Parliament discuss the resolution. The ruling majority did not want it, not because it was wanted for a solution, because Mr. Bogdanovic was with us for talks on the solution, and based on these talks it could easily be concluded that neither Mr. Bogdanovic nor the ruling coalition came to the conclusion because they have a vision of how it should end. The difference was that the ruling majority promised someone in the EU or the United States that they would definitely accept the Eulex mission and everything our resolution had nothing to do with it was out of the question. That's the key to the problem. Then what happened? It is the ruling coalition that continues to avoid any conversation with the opposition on the subject all the time, so that the whole thing will be transferred to the executive power, and apparently to all citizens, not that executive authority that should do so - the government of the Republic of Serbia, but to the cabinet of Boris Tadic. That's how it went, and then by the same executive authority, with the report of Boris Tadic's cabinet, the story of the acceptance of Eulex and the lie of the people, and it's also a lie day and day, that EULEX does not serve to apply Ahtisaari's plan, and it serves only that. That's more than obvious. It's less about what's said and what's in shape, it's about what's in it. It will take Serbia's testimony in the coming months, as it goes. It's something that's behind us and, unfortunately, it's one big ruined thing for this country. Unfortunately, of course yours, time will be clear who will bear the seal of responsibility for that, unfortunately, for all time. But it's as simple as it is. Please, if you are already in charge of this National Assembly and if you answer the MPs' questions, then give complete information, because the information that you have just provided seems to be complete, but it is not, because it hides one of its essential parts. Therefore, if the MPs have asked anything, as Mr Samardzic did, you are also giving half the information there, let what the media could convey. What difference does it make what the media have? (President: Time. I'm done. We are speaking here in the capacity of the Members of the People's Parliament with you as a National MP in the position of the President of the National Assembly, so in that sense we should give answers. Let you know what the Curr, Blic and B92 were transporting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9720	Mr. Markicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9721	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, since today is December 9th and, I think, as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, it will be recorded as one of the blackest dates, and since the request of 108 MPs is not put on the agenda, I would like to explain some of the things to you, the honourable presidents and you, fellow Members of Parliament, as well as to the citizens of Serbia who are looking at this right now, because in those days ahead of New Serbia, I have participated in the consultations. Therefore, it is a request from 108 MPs; this request has been submitted in an extraordinary session, and then the majority of that request could not be removed from the agenda, as it can now. That's the thing. Why do I want to say this, to testify and maybe break some unwritten rule that all things with a consultation are not spoken? It's about Kosovo and Metohija, and that's what I have to say. You, the esteemed president, said when you were elected president of the National Assembly, that you didn't know about that request, that that's why it wasn't put on the agenda. For the sake of the truth, the face and the honesty of mine, I must say, for these 75,000 signatures and for having to appear today in front of these people in one association. So you told us, and then the secretary, and the current one, Mr. Veljko Odalovic, who is also from Kosovo and Metohija, that you didn't know, because after ten days, if you remember, at one consultation, we insisted why not put that request on 108 MPs. Now it offends me, to tell you honestly, your explanation that in the coming days and months it was not put on the agenda because there was no unity around Kosovo and Metohija. Well, because there was no unity, that's why the government fell. That's why we're in front of the citizens to let the citizens say what they think about it. Is this where all the laws on the ruling side come, or by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that everyone thinks the same thing in the government itself about the law? Why couldn't someone have gone to the Serbian citizens and said what Eulex is, what does he mean and is he really an extension of Ahtisaari's plan? Minister Bogdanovic, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, spoke with the heads of parliamentary groups. Do you know what he was saying about it? People, anything can, but Eulexes can't be mentioned. That must say, these are historic days, historic moments. You can do anything, but you can't mention Eulex. Until this government comes to power, politics against Kosovo and Metohija, guidelines, state policy is established in the National Assembly. So, a signal to all Serbian citizens, especially Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija... (President: Time)... was clear - to run a secret policy. You could be such an explanation to give us here as little children that the President of the Republic 10 or 15 days ago did not say that he did not know who was in charge of the Eulex negotiations on behalf of Serbia. Secret negotiations were held behind the National Assembly, behind the backs of Serbian citizens we represent here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9722	Mr. Zoran Krasic first, then Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic, then Mr. Momir Markovic. That's the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9723	No one can escape from historical and legal responsibility for their actions. Neither will you, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, succeed in getting out of responsibility for the constant violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course, I shouldn't read Article 104(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because I am already being punished by 3,000 dinars, but I could read for the first time what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and woe to that country whose MPs are being punished when they quote the provisions of the Constitution. I risk being punished again, so I will only remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what, by oath and violation of his oath, Boris Tadic has violated. Otherwise, he is currently in great depression, so he ordered yesterday that the National Assembly session be such as to ensure that the public of the Republic of Serbia would not know that the obstruction of the DS towards the SRS inevitably leads to something called treason. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in a referendum, when the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, you decided to make every commitment in the Republic of Serbia, and Boris Tadic, and his Mitkot Rakic, and Vukadinovic, and Jeremic, and Slavica Djukic, and Velju Ilic, and Petar Jojic, and Cosic, and this Konstantinovic, although he prefers Americans rather than Serbs. The provision is a preamble that says: "Departing from the state tradition of the Serbian people and the equality of all citizens and ethnic communities in Serbia, starting from the fact that the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia's territory, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia, and that from such a position of the province of Kosovo and Metohija follow the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija in all internal and external political relations, Serbian citizens are bringing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia", with Article 104 of Article 4 of the Republic's President's oaths. These days, these months, we've been witnessing a game that no one could get out of. We kept defending the people's electoral will so that Solana, Kusner, or "fast" Gonzales wouldn't come to us. When they come, they bring damage to the Republic of Serbia. One time he was Gonzales, and then he started the sunroof of Serbia. He's installed on the authority of those who need to be legally forbidden to be in power. When they win, the state doesn't exist, the state doesn't exist. There's no such thing as state interests. When did this happen in Serbia's history that MPs receive warnings because they read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and remind state officials that they must take care of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9724	Time. Mr. Kragovic, you have your word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 - the dignity of the National Assembly. It is a shame that we are working until 2.15 - 220 hours tonight, as long as it was, and that today we continue to celebrate the greatest defeat in the history of the Serbian people, to surrender the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. In fact, half an hour ago, EULEX members entered the judiciary building in the Kosovo Mitrovica court building. They are expected to enter the Kosovo Mitrovica police building at any moment. I was telling you last night, and today I'm telling you, none of the UNMIK police officers are on duty anymore. You've fooled us all. You were talking about some reconfiguration, so the EULEX mission reportedly will be deployed there, UNMIK police will remain in Serbian environments to guard the Serb people. There are no UNMIK police members in Kosovo Mitrovica, all by restaurants, cafes, civilians, on a trip, not at their obligation to them Resolution 1244, to protect and defend the unprotected Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. We act like nothing's going on here. We'll pass a law on court and prosecutor's offices. The law will enter in 2010, and there will probably be changes and additions to that law by then and will enter in 2011, 2012 or I don't know which year, and in the meantime we surrender to the mercy and mercy of 130,000 Serbs who remain in Kosovo and Metohija and forever close the doors for 250,000 Serbs who want and intend to return. They expected some politics, some diplomacy to create certain conditions that they could exercise their rights and return to their properties, return to their homes. This is how it comes to you that you simply leave the Serbian people to the mercy of the Shiptar Separatists and terrorists. The question is, what do we do, how do we behave? For months, we have asked the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to explain to us how Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija behave when the time comes, and that time has come today. We have no instructions on what to do with the president of the municipality, what to do with a simple citizen, how to treat that mission. How do they react? We've been giving orders and we've been looking, but there isn't, all our appeals, all our calls have been in vain. Minister... (President: Time. ) The Prime Minister is so busy that he cannot accept the Serbian delegation and explain it to them. We were with Mr. President of the Republic, he said he didn't know, a few days before that Security Council resolution was passed, that he didn't even know the final result and that he didn't know how he was going to behave, but that he was doing everything for our improvement. What is the improvement if the UN flag in Jarinj is removed today and another European Union flag is set? Does this mean that Serbia has joined the EU? Have you completed your mission? If so, say - Serbia has joined the EU, the EU flag is winding both in Jarinj and Brnjak. It's Serbia, people, and Jarinje and Brnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9726	Mr. Markovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 104, but before I go to that, I have to quote the President of the National Assembly, one sentence she said to someone (I apologize, but I can't remember who) from the DSS MPs when he came out for a pay phone: "We have reached an agreement that we will make efforts to take a stand." In just these words, you can see it in a stenogram. So the dignity of the congregation is literally crushed, brutally crushed, and we reach agreement to take positions, or to make efforts to take a stand. The dignity of the state has been absolutely annulled. It has been annulled for a long time, but last night's, or yesterday's arrival and deployment of EULEX on the territory of the Serbian state, the country's dignity has been brutally affected. MPs have been prevented from discussing the work of their country. We put the resolution on the agenda, so we took it off the agenda, so everything happened and it allowed MPs to take a stand, of course, not reaching an agreement and making efforts to take a stand. Deceiting the nation with diplomatic activities of the president of the state, the interior minister and many others who have been running around the white world, including Europe, has led us to get the Eulex last night, and the state has no position, regardless of the agreement. The president, foreign ministers, government, state, all institutions. Whom will be bound by the International Court's opinion on professional opinion on whether Kosovo is etc. etc., it doesn't matter at all anymore, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, has been an occupation since yesterday in Kosovo. No UNMIK, we've got EULEX. You, gentlemen of the ruling group, by your misdemeanor, purposely misrepresentation or inaction, have brought you to Kosovo. To remind you that this puts the lives of all 130,000 Serbs in Kosovo at risk and that all Serb sanctities are at risk. Let me remind you, the other day you read in the paper that Serbia received a message that Serb heads from Kosovo and Metohija would arrive. Isn't that right, gentlemen of the Parliament? What did the government do about it? What did the Home Office do about it? What did the Foreign Ministry do about it? (President: Time. After my time is up, I report back to the Rules of Procedure and wait for my turn to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9728	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9729	Dear People's MPs, today is the day when Serbia, or people's MPs, must speak and say what happened. What happened in Kosovo, where did Eulex come from? What are they gonna do down there? Whose constitution will they respect, whose judiciary, whose laws? Are they making a closed border towards Serbia? Is Kosovo from today part of Serbian territory? According to what's going on, it's not anymore. Let's not hide it from the people. For Kosovo, Serbia has been at war for over six centuries. We lost him, we brought him back. We lost him on the battlefield, brought him back to the negotiating table, but never until today did the Serbian government and the Serbian president, Serbian kings, have anyone signed the surrender of Kosovo. They, unfortunately, made it official. I remember talks in Moscow when Russian President Putin asked Boris Tadic a question and said – Mr Tadic, if you win the presidential election, what do we expect, does your policy towards Kosovo change? He said no. Does the Serbian government remain firm to defend Kosovo? He said yes. If you and your government accept the Eulex, we'll accept it too. We can't be bigger Serbs than you. They accepted, unfortunately, and as of today, for the first time in Serbian history after six centuries, Kosovo has capitulated, it has been handed over. It has been submitted, and as it is down there we will ask these 130,000 Serbs when they start slowly, one by one, to cross and to clean Kosovo. Therefore, you did not give a debate in parliament. The whole world was doing it. Serbia's leadership violated the constitution, the president broke the constitution. You have violated two Assembly resolutions, where it is explicitly indicated that Eulex cannot enter Kosovo or respect the institutions of an independent Kosovo. You've broken everything. It's an honor, but you'll be responsible for that, for breaking the Constitution, for the betrayal that has taken place. You'll answer, gentlemen. Remember that you will answer. You'll be sitting on the defendant's bench eventually for what you did in Kosovo. You broke the Army through the Secretary of Defense, you removed all the institutions that could have done something. You've lost the battle of foreign policy. What you've been running some negotiations, it's lemonade. You talked, but secretly you said – well, it's fine, etc. Therefore, we need to get together in Serbia, to know who we are, what we are. But you have violated two resolutions of the Serbian Parliament and someone will answer for it. Let it be your honor and take charge, gentlemen, from this day forward. You've made this official and given the green light.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9730	The word is Mr. Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9731	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103: "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." I urge that we return to the agenda and discuss a set of judicial laws. As for violations of parliamentary resolutions, some secret policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear that a resolution has been reached in the UN General Assembly on the need for the International Court to justify an opinion on the illegal act of self-proclaiming independence of Kosovo and Metohija, and this must be assessed as a diplomatic victory of this country. The UN Security Council's presidential statement, which included the five permanent members sitting with the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, unanimously accepted and also included six points insisting on official Belgrade, the government of the Republic of Serbia. It was a prerequisite to accept the Eulex mission and was exclusively and clearly defined what this mission meant. But more importantly, in the international legal order, there is an international law entity. The subject of international law is the state of Serbia. I have not noticed, and neither have you, who want to manipulate these, primarily by the emotions of people from Kosovo and Metohija, that Kosovo has become an subject of international law. Also, as an international law entity, Serbia draws from Resolution 1244 the only international legal framework defining Kosovo and Metohija's status, which clearly states that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the state of Serbia. It is true that 75,000 signatures were collected in Kosovo and Metohija, but we are keeping track of what period it was done and whether it was done before the adoption of these six points of official Belgrade, or after. Those who took care of Kosovo and Metohija in the previous period had a chance to bear that responsibility, without having to discuss the elections, could form a government together with the DSS, New Serbia and the SRS. You shouldn't have done that, and don't live in the time machine. May 11th is over. Take care of what gets legitimacy in the United Nations and that the fight or fight for Kosovo lasts, as Mr Ilic said, for more than six centuries, will last for a long time, but all of you together have decided to make the journey a diplomatic means, not others. If you have an alternative, offer it and do not distract the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9732	Mr. Palalic, you have your word. Mr. Samardzic, you're already on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9733	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very surprised by the way you reacted when I pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. It's these discussions we're hearing right now, here, and the representative of the ruling majority is talking about the need... (President: I'm sorry, please, Mr. Palalic, I really must interrupt. On three occasions, you presented something that is not a fact, that I did not put the resolution mentioned on the agenda. So it was put on the agenda, but the parliamentary majority assessed it that way. He said three times that I hurt the Rules of Procedure, in response to that, I just figured it out, or you don't remember, or you do it on purpose. ) Madam President, it is your role, when it comes to such a serious initiative of 108 MPs, that we are constantly holding consultations daily to get, if possible, the joint text of the motion for a resolution. Not that it wasn't these consultations, but in the last two months, even a representative of the government, who at one point showed the will to speak to parliamentary groups, stopped. I have just pointed out the fact that this National Assembly on such important issues and issues, such as politics towards Kosovo and Metohija, has no role it has played until July 2008. Just now, the previous speaker pointed out why we needed to talk. Everyone said and we all agree that Kosovo and Metohija will be defended by all diplomatic means. But there are very large differences in what the objectives of this fight are and how the state of Serbia should set a limit to the defence of its sovereignty. My intention was to point out to you in my address as the president of the National Assembly that it is not enough (which you said) to put on the agenda a motion for a resolution, so there is no effort to discuss it, but to let the ruling majority take it off the agenda, and that is what we say - there is no will to discuss Kosovo and Metohija. We all had to make efforts in the National Assembly to discuss such a big and important subject. In that very sense, it was my command to you that Article 27 implies the efforts of the President of the National Assembly to discuss the most important topics. Here, we will also discuss soon the problem that exists at a standstill with European integration. It is the European Union that enters into the process of developing a feasibility study for Kosovo and Metohija, so what we talked about, the DSS, in the debate on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement – that Serbia will be forced to establish good neighbourly relations with Kosovo and Metohija if it wants to join the EU – very quickly the subject of this Parliament. Are we going to discuss it then or are we going to enter an endless consultation process that no one is conducting? This is a matter of Parliament's dignity and strength to impose itself as the most important state institution, to discuss the most important topics, not to ignore them. My good intention was to show you as president of the National Assembly that these are historic events and that your role as president of the National Assembly must be decisive there. Because this is what the people look at, and the people's MPs, all 250, represent the people, without any intention of offending anyone here. This was a good intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9734	Thank you. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9735	Members of 27th and 104th are the cause of my reporting. I don't know what kind of trouble made Mr. Ruzic stand up for Boris Tadic here, of course, without any argument. But, Madam President of the National Assembly, I must remind you of the day Radovan Karadzic was kidnapped. You then interrupted the National Assembly session for about a month and a half, and last night it was obviously arranged to create an incident situation, even if there was a fight, because one MP from the ruling coalition was just trying to challenge it, to distract the public from what is the biggest problem today in Serbia. Today, unfortunately, on December 9th, the St. Alimpi, an occupation of Kosovo and Metohija was appointed. We have spoken years and months ago, especially since we proposed to Parliament that a motion for a resolution of 108 MPs be discussed here; the majority of the assembly remained deaf. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, when you say you put it on the agenda, I just threw it out of your bench, and now I'm telling you from here, we can tell that story to the kids in some kindergarten, if we go there for a visit. We're serious people, serious people listen to us. The state is in serious trouble. Part of Serbia's territory is occupied, with the consent of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia, did not have such authority from this parliament. Whenever we talked about it, representatives of the congregation's majority laughed, as they are now laughing and as they laugh all morning; they must have lifted the burden, and that Eulex arrived, these MPs will no longer be the opposition to deal with it. Now they're gonna do other jobs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone has to take historical responsibility for what happened. That someone is the ruling majority, Boris Tadic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, because you are the one who allowed Ahtisaari's plan to be implemented. When the government was elected, we warned that Minister for Kosovo and Metohija could not be someone who was a member of one of the Cypriot governments. You haven't heard of it. It's obvious that Mr. Secretary was deliberately stalling and that he didn't want to talk... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... with representatives of parliamentary groups because he knew it was an occupation and accepted it, because we knew it was an occupation and we insisted it would not happen. I'm sorry I overstepped my time, but we really need to talk about this openly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9736	Mr. Samardzic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9737	Dear MPs, we have heard twice today that the opposition is manipulating parliament on the Kosovo issue. Unfortunately, it was first said by the president of the National Assembly. Imagine if we hadn't opened this issue today using the Rules of Procedure, of course, we would have discussed one very important thing, these are judicial laws, but the Assembly would not say what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, and that was the goal. The whole problem here is the media embargo that exists in Serbia over Kosovo and Metohija. The media embargo can be very well illustrated by what I was talking about, by the arrival of officials from Kosovo and Metohija and by handing over the signatures they gave against Eulex. I remind you that these signatures of citizens from Kosovo and Metohija were against the arrival of Eulex. The president of the assembly said she informed the public as soon as she received them. There's one problem, or there's more problems. First, it was meant to inform the National Assembly, and then the public, because she is the president of the National Assembly and not the representative of the public. The public could have informed, say, the director of RTS or some journalist. Secondly, as far as the public is concerned, it was the only information on their arrival here in Belgrade that day. Afterwards, they had their press conference at the International Press Centre and the public from that conference heard nothing. So that's what we're talking about. We are under a media embargo when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Why? Because you need to hide the fact about what Eulex is supposed to do there. That's what Daniel Fried said last Friday: EULEX should defend Kosovo's territorial integrity and Metohija. The man said simply, in a simple sentence, what was the task. In fact, we all know that, so you know why Eulex is coming. It's about acting out; like, we're fighting for Kosovo and Metohija, and we're actually letting them come. It has not even been done what the public has been dazzled for several weeks -- that for some time, it is not known how much, in fact UNMIK will work on areas where Serbs are in the majority, that it will be he who will be the chief police commander, in the judiciary, etc., and that EULEX will only be in Albanian environments. Today, the Eulexes customs are coming to Jarinje and Brnjak. Today they are occupying police stations in Mitrovica. So it wasn't even what tried to represent it was going to happen. So, the goal of our move is to defend ourselves against the media darkness of Kosovo and Metohija. This is the first place where the light must be entered about what is happening and then the public. We have no other way, and that's why we use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9738	The word has a folk MP Zoran Krasic, then Zoran Nikolic, Momir Markovic, Milan Avramovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Dejan Mirović, Sladjan Mijaljević, Petar Jojic, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9739	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think that, and I will also try to prove it to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following this transmission, and it would be good for those who are following the call to both friends and neighbours to inform, because today very fateful things are happening for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today Eulex has taken over Kosovo and Metohija, tomorrow it is likely that some other territory, the day after that, will be your apartment. A few days ago, I announced a state of terrorism, and there was a state of terrorism. Everything we've announced has happened exactly as we've announced. The way you apply the powers laid down in Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly you have is scandalous. The purpose of this method of applying Article 27. The Rules of Procedure are to disabling the National Assembly as an organ, to make the National Assembly a simple sponge that will be able to pick up water and all other things that bother people in the house, to demean the National Assembly, to demean the function of the MP, so that a group of people can work organisedly against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I have to draw attention to the fact that in this building, no decision has ever been made in the National Assembly, no agreement has been given for negotiations, talks, and no points have been defined, and now we hear there are six points. We know there was a secret negotiation. In addition, all the agency news praises Boris Tadic, especially Solana, who does not hide the enthusiasm that consensus has been reached, which was all done in agreement with Boris Tadic. If this was prepared evidence are those demonstrations that were held in February, they were designed to be destructive. That's what Boris Tadic, Miki Rakic and others did. We saw the destruction in September of the citizens protesting the way Radovan Karadzic was arrested. A man set out to treat the sterility of a woman, according to Batajnica, and of course, they gave him up. We still don't know who did it, the official authorities are silent, and we still don't have a report from the commission or any committee. It was all a preparation, it's a criminal organization that aims to promote this type of pro-civilization to vote from Bodrum (and it hasn't been solved yet), this type of primitive vote to vote from Thessaloniki (not yet solved), this type of anti-civilisation behavior to arrest several thousand people overnight, this type of vandalism that at irreparably lower prices, this type of crime to shut down four banks in order to shut down the Serbian economy. This Serbia has become an experimental area for a criminal project and we raise our voice against this criminal project, and the coverage for what we raise is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have brought this Constitution. We defend your Constitution and ask you to defend your rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Please, where you see Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party, run as far away from them as possible; some harm will have to be reported. I'm sorry about these seconds. I'm gonna get back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9740	It's not seconds. It's a whole minute. Mr. Zoran Nikolic has a word, and then Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9741	Dear People's MPs, from one MP in the last meeting, Mr. Kojčić, two or three years ago, I heard an interesting story and I want to tell it to you here. In 1908, when the Austro-Hungarian anecdotes BiH, with known consequences, the next day all European parliaments, in Berlin, Moscow and London, discussed the annexation. These parliaments and those states were aware of that act. By chance, and in 1908, on the agenda of the National Assembly, the modern dictionary discussed the territorial organisation of the state administration of the then Kingdom of Serbia. The next day, in the Assembly, there was a fight between the Uzrids whether the municipality of Gostilje should be abolished, to join the Municipality of Pussy. It's been debated all day. The consequences of the anexia crisis were catastrophic and the particularly high price was paid by us. Under the circumstances, on the agenda of this Parliament today is a territorial organisation of courts. Again, as in 1908, there is no will to discuss the subject. Once again, the government has been avoiding and trying on several occasions to frame us that we want to abuse that subject, not to talk about it. It is indicative that only SPS representatives defend this topic, and that the Democratic Party is only silent. At some secret part of the DS General Committee session, Boris Tadic may have threatened to keep you from talking about it, so he said he would replace any of you who went out for this pay phone and talk about Kosovo. That is possible, but it is not right for the president of the Assembly, nor for Mr Ruzic, to say here that we are playing with the feelings of the citizens of Kosovo and the whole of Serbia and that we are abused by this topic. I had the opportunity to be in Ranilug on February 17th, with Mr. Ruzic. We spoke to the citizens of Ranilug, there were over 300 people, a crowded hall, and then we said we would defend Kosovo together. It doesn't matter if I was there as a representative of the DSS, he's a SPS, and it doesn't matter if I belonged to the government at the time, and he belongs to the opposition, and now the situation is reversed, it's important that this parliament sends that kind of message. How do we send that kind of message today, when in this House five months away from that topic... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And when you look at each other in every way how not to talk about Kosovo here? It is said here that what the government of the Republic of Serbia has done has the legitimacy of the UN. It's possible, but it doesn't have the Parliament's legitimacy. (President: Bring the end, please. Please be a little polite, I'm just finishing my mind. (President: I give you a warning. ) Let me at least finish, since you've said a series of false things here. (President: You can't talk for a minute longer. At least say I'll finish, but now you're warning me because I'm warning you that you're out of time. Please bring the end. ( ) You have missed another opportunity to show that level of responsibility expected by the President of the Assembly and to finally come to this assembly that this assembly must discuss primarily.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9742	Mr. Kragovic, you have your word. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure in terms of time. Of course it makes sense to finish your thought, sentence, but you all say almost a minute more.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226, and I'm looking for an explanation. What's going on? Today, construction of a mosque in Berivojac, in the municipality of Kosovo Kamenica, began again. You remember that case, I used to talk a lot. That's when the Cypriots demonstrated their will and strength; they're making a new mosque at the Serbian playground and they want to banish and attack Serbs. There was a conflict, a conflict lasted three or four hours, and the result of that conflict was that criminal charges were filed against four Serbs from the village of Berivojec, as if they were to blame for preventing a new mosque from being built on their land without any permission. Today it's done again. Who's going to protect these people now? Who will now help these people who are accused and who will most likely, under this Eulex mission, and with the judiciary as it is down there, most likely be in prison and be guilty of defending their property, their country? So I'm asking the state to protect those four guys, to worry about them and not let them be guilty for defending their property. It seems that in Serbia it is the one who defends his property. He who gives up other people's property is good, he's fair. There's been a lot of stories here. It is also a shame to mention these signatures from Kosovo and Metohija, which have been collected by hard work. To defuse these signatures means to deny the existence of Serbs down there and their action, their idea of doing something to protect their interests, their families, their homes. Those signatures were collected before it was a Security Council session, when we saw that the devil had taken the joke, that we would be issued by Belgrade, by the government in Serbia. That was the last appeal. Serbia's parliament does not want to discuss this, not Kosovo and Metohija. Here is the Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija, again to remind you, where all political parties are representatives. And these SPS members who are delegates in the Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija signed that petition, and here their head of the parliamentary club demeans the petition, as -- I don't know what time it was signed, who was collecting, as he was collecting. And when the Security Council has made a decision, it all ceases to apply; the Security Council's decision is important, it's important that we win diplomatic victory. How did we get it? (President: Time. We achieved it by handing over the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and leaving it to the mercy and mercy of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9744	Mr. Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9745	I continue, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, where I left off. We've just announced a hit, violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure apply to the continuation of my discussion. Seventy-five thousand signatures, seventy-five thousand cries to save those lives, to save that territory, you are deaf to it. I ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic if he will take over Minister Bogdanovic, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija for all that has happened? Did the minister who trained to be the Serbian government minister practice in the Shipar government? Does he have a little bit of a, uh, bump have to accept that he's running the resort? Instead of the Serbian Government, the National Assembly is sitting day and night, that they are in constant session at a time when they are taking 15% of our territory, we are discussing meaningless laws, laws that will apply 2010-2020, laws that do not mean anything to Serbia. This is the entanglement of the Serbian people. The only item on the agenda of the permanent session must be Kosovo and Metohija. What about Kosovo and Metohija? Who is to blame for the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija? The story of one of the MPs - in accordance with Resolution 1244. What part of that resolution? Is that the part about thousands of soldiers and police officers protecting Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? How long will you distract Serbia and the Serbian people? Take a look at the agenda of today's sessions, see the agenda of the previous session. As they take our Kosovo and Metohija, while 130,000 Serbs... The question is how many will survive in the next month, as the Cypriot bandits promised Serbia and the Serbian people to send Serb heads from Kosovo and Metohija. While this is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, the Assembly ends the ninth unfinished Beethoven Symphony. Please, if you have any cheeks, honors, and brains, come here to talk, not throw me out of my place.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9746	National MP Milan Avramović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is the basic reason and answer why the state of Serbia has not applied to the International Court of Justice to declare Kosovo's legality and the Metohija's urgent procedure. So, I repeat, by emergency procedure. The deadline must take time, to buy, to install EULEX in Kosovo in the meantime and make Kosovo a state, as it should be done in accordance with Marty Ahtisaari's plan. I remind you that the International Court of Justice has already called on Kosovo, not as an institution, but as a state, to give its opinion on the basis of this lawsuit, that they are not capable of doing so, so they need EULEX and that the International Court of Justice recognises and gives legitimacy to the Kosovo Quasistate. So one basic and clear question arises. If someone who has recognised Kosovo as a state among the first, I mean the American administration, not the American people, in the case of Nicaragua - America has annulled the decision of the International Court of Justice and said that they do not accept either the court or their decisions, how do you think you call for any decision of that court? You yourself know that this is your last step in which you will have the basis for legal recognition of Kosovo and Metohija, because you will say – we do not respect the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija, but we will have to respect the International Court of Justice. So, MPs and citizens of Serbia, based on the members of 225 and 226, we have asked this question from this pay phone, which we have never received an answer to. What are the reasons why the International Court of Justice's opinion is not required in an urgent procedure? Which are the reasons, we see today. Today, when the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija is installed, the "telephone" MPs come out here and invite us to stick to the agenda and talk about Parliament's dignity. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, do not be surprised at the course of the session when MPs of the ruling majority, individuals, come out and acknowledge the informal quasistate of Kosovo in relation to the opinion of the International Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9748	Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President of the Assembly, I don't think you've been doing very well since this morning, you don't rule the Rules of Procedure very well, and everything is in accordance with Rule 27. The Rules of Procedure of this congregation. In that context, I will explain what I said, and then, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will give you one proposal. In fact, one topic has been opened in this room this morning, which is the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, and I don't think there is an MP in this House who can say that opening that topic could be an abuse of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I think the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly and several of its members are the only ones, which I said last night, the Institute of Transparency in Serbia or the possibility of talking about. In this case, it is Kosovo and Metohija. I think the theme of Kosovo and Metohija is now a priority. We've had a Eulex mission there since yesterday. Mission Eulexa, according to the UN Secretary-General, should be in the position of installing the Martti Ahtisaari plan, which is essentially rounding up elements of the statehood of the independent state of Kosovo and Metohija. Then the representatives of the congregation's majority come out and teach us how to distract the people. Madam President of the Assembly, yesterday we showed absolute readiness to work on the agenda points. If you were, while you were and when you weren't, it seems to me that yesterday we only called once or twice to talk to the Rules of Procedure from this pay phone. This correct and constructive work lasted until 10:00 p.m. last night. After 2200 hours, the boast of individuals from the congregation’s majority went downhill. In this room we had a situation that at one point the hall was turned into a cafeteria or restaurant, and then there could be a physical accounting, or incident. As of this morning, none of the majority's representatives have found a similar bar to recognize part of the responsibility for what happened last night, but the opposition is again being taught lessons. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you now have the opportunity to show whether you are really ready to do something in the context of the story that you want in accordance with the Constitution to fight for the interests of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, and thus to show how much you understand the importance of the points on the agenda, for which you and the representatives of most of us are untastefully calling on us to work on them. In that sense, I will suggest that you call on the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 98, to interrupt the session, to invite the heads of parliament groups, to listen to representatives of parliamentary groups, to try to find an agreement and not to say that Serbia is in the context of Kosovo and Metohija and that you have no position. At least try to find him. I don't think anyone's gonna take that as evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9750	I've made every effort, and I think that the government and I still have to make an effort to work on all the issues you've mentioned. I thank you for your suggestions, but I really have to do this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution. We have started this session, we have an appropriate agenda and I call you again to work on an extremely significant agenda, with all the understanding of all the questions that each individual in this room is launching. The word is Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. On the occasion of Mr Daniel Fried's statement that Eulex is not statusual and that he has been deployed to strengthen the quasistate of Kosovo and with regard to the deployment of US citizens in the Eulex mission, I am interested in the position of our competent authorities, more specifically whether Mr Manter will be declared a non-grate person, as has been done in the case of neighbouring countries and Malaysia recently. I don't understand why this problem is being silenced, especially because the foreign trade with the land represented by Mr. Manter is minimal. A move like this wouldn't hurt our economic interests. Also, as far as the International Court of Justice is concerned, I would like to remind the position of prominent Professor Milan Paunovic of Belgrade's Law Faculty. He has repeatedly made a very negative statement about this procedure by our authorities, as I call on Pristina to plead essentially already means a kind of recognition.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9752	The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226. In light of the events that have been happening to us over the past few months, weeks and days, what's going on tonight, what's going to happen tomorrow, the next few days, weeks and months, I'm asking the Minister of Police, the Director of the BIA, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the entire government to schedule these issues among themselves. An announcement received from a meeting held in Pristina on 23 June 1999, attended by KFOR Commander General Jackson, Foreign Ministers England, Germany, France, Italy and UN representative Serjo de Melo: 1) everything needs to be done to make it harder for Serbs and Montenegrins to return. Infected groups from Albania and members of the KLA should be able to deal with remaining non-Albanian lives wherever possible. The transitional institutions of government create such that Albanians dominate in every respect, while the sovereignty of Serbia, that is, Yugoslavia, pay no attention. That's what's happening to us right now. The results of a Brussels meeting of 26 May 2005, organised at the request of the CIA and MI, attended by intelligence structures of almost all European states. Then the following terrible conclusions were made: fraud and threats, through a high representative of the Bosnian Serbs, force the Bosnian Serbs to give up their suicides, and then abolish the Republika Srpska, which was created on "genocide". Resolution 1244 Security Councils adjudicate standards and status and create conditions for independent Kosovo, which happened to us tonight. Solana and Ahtisaari must be involved in all plans to crush Serbia, as they are the most suitable for achieving the goals of America and NATO. Democratic structures in Serbia force in all ways to maintain power in Serbia, and through a contract with NATO alliance to ensure security for those politicians who follow the geostrategic goals of America and NATO in the Balkans. The "Barbarosa 5" plan will be activated by NGOs as soon as possible, so that a new imagined resolution on Kosovo can be implemented as easily as possible. Patriotic forces in Serbia, and in particular the Serbian Radical Party, media marginalise, and when conditions are created, they are completely removed from Serbia's political scene by new operational actions. With NATO's assistance, NATO forces from Kosovo and infused units from neighbouring countries are preparing an operational "Sabbe 3" action to liquidate many of the leaders of the patriotic parties in Serbia and also ensure the permanent domination of the democratic bloc that is attached to the US and NATO alliance plans. Please answer these questions and information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9754	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He's not in the O.R. National MP Dušanka Plecevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 226 and ask the Government for information on what it will do about the illegal installation of Eulex in Kosovo and Metohija, or what is true in the conflicting statements of our officials in this regard. A while ago in our public service and other media, according to our uncut right to know everything about our money, a small, almost undetected news was stolen, that so-called. The Eulex mission is highly installed in Kosovo and Metohija. This news could hardly have been made public in the flood of tears by our journalists for a certain late gentleman, the owner of some newspaper from the neighbouring country, and his colleague who died in some mob shootout, as far as I could tell from those plights. It's, of course, very tragic for their families, but there's no reason why we know everything about it. But what Serbia's public should be kept informed of is what is happening to our people in Kosovo and Metohija, Montenegro, in Republika Srpska. Perhaps the reason lies is that TV subscription to our public service is not all paid, especially those who have electricians in barns and barns, so they are threatened with lawsuits every day. Why don't we know who killed Milan Panic, Slavko Curuvija? Who killed Ranko Panic? Who killed Pavel Bulatovic, the guards and the others? However, some newspapers in the latest feltons reveal that the late Djindjic was killed by some unidentified foreigners, not those who were convicted. For our media are the most important sensations, even the most morbid ones about rolling severed heads, about bloody counts of criminal groups and fans. The truth is, of course, somewhere in between, which will say that for our brave, politically correct and unwavering, the European consecrated power of some unpleasant news should be dwindled, minimized or, in a media way, overlapped, that not all of us are well-eyed. We are witnessing that EULEX, how much tonight, has been installed (receiving the first Nobel Prize) on the world's Serbian country, with the intention of finally taking it from our borders, from our hearts, from our memories, from our prayers, against all earthly and divine laws, against all resolutions, decisions, against common common sense. Our minister, Jeremic, claims we will never change our view of Eulex. I just don't know whose position -- his, Boris Tadic, Serbian citizens? God knows, because our congregation didn't discuss this bullying Washington-Brissel procedure. We, the legitimate representatives of Serbian citizens, were unable to speak a word about the decisions, as the decision was made by the powerful and obedient from our government. Cosmet should not be on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, those who see black spots and stains and holes everywhere just not in their heads have decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9756	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9757	Ladies and gentlemen, members of 225 and 226. Is it really possible that someone could think, let alone say, that someone at the accident of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, at the accident that hit them tonight and today by deploying this mission of Eulex, wants to score political points? Is it possible that someone might think that this here, Mr Kragovic, and other people living in Kosovo and who want to give us the situation in Kosovo and Metohija for the deployment of this mission, wants to score political points? The truth is completely different. Through one example, I will tell you who, in fact, wants to dissuade this assembly, who wants to marginalise the work of this assembly, who wants to hear the truth about Kosovo and Metohija. A group of Serbs from the central part of Kosovo and Metohija, 3,500 of them, sent a letter a while ago to the president of the state, Boris Tadic and the Prime Minister, asking that they do everything to stop the eviction of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. I ask the question of President Boris Tadic's cabinet – did the cabinet of the president of the state literally answer the Serbs, quote only one sentence: "The president is not in charge of these problems, and therefore does not want to interfere"? This is literally how the President of the State's office responded. Is this true and what the president of the state did about this letter? A question for the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. On the occasion of the same letter, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija responded, quoting only one sentence, "that it is familiar with the contents of the letter, but we must be aware that their resolution represents an entire process". The end of the quote. That's what they said. Do those not in charge of Kosovo and Metohija know that there are 130,000 unprotected Serbs there? Do they know that there are 1,996 Serb cannons, 1,181 churches, 115 monasteries, 48 pillows, 534 old Serbian cemetery and much more, 14 remnants of the medieval castles of Serbian rulers? Do they know that every two to three kilometers in Kosovo and Metohija there is a Serb mark, a mark of the existence of Serbs in these areas for centuries? Let those who have done this, those who have allowed this Eulexa mission to be installed in Kosovo and Metohija, know that besides the rest of what Mr Ilic said, that he will have to answer for it, he will also answer to the court of history. The verdict before the court of history is already seen – most of the shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9758	The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 27, 31, 98, 104, 105, 106. In fact, the work of parliament is obstructing you and you want to draw the attention of Serbian citizens to something other than what is currently happening in Serbia and what you are doing. In particular, last night it was the installation of EULEX in Kosovo. Mrs. Komic, your way of leading the Assembly is such that it is obvious not only that you have different arches when it comes to the MPs of the opposition and the ruling coalition, but it is more than embarrassing that you again tonight, for who knows which time, give two warnings to Ms. Natashi Jovanovic, for no reason. I'll just remind you of a few specific examples. Namely, the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, has lost control here in the Assembly and addressed Mrs. Verice Radeti, and you know it well, you heard it, she said literally like this: "What do you want me to do, I'm going to kick you all out of here. "It is good for Serbian citizens to see and hear it. As for this work tonight until two or three o'clock in the morning, it's not the MPs, it's our duty, and we want to make a commitment to the citizens who have given us trust. With my time running out, I will only give you one example, because it is very important that the citizens of Serbia hear it. Miss Natasa Jovanovic mentioned a mobing here today. The first mobing verdict in the Republic of Serbia was issued at the Municipal Court in Backo Palanca. It is a member and senior official of the Democratic Party, Daria Shain, who is the head of the South Babacan district. That's what you're carrying here to the congregation benches. I note once again, since I am running out of time, here I am ending up, not a problem for the MPs, but I simply do not understand that you are not thinking about Madam Minister, that you are not sorry that you are harassing her in such a way. When the child of Madam Minister, the health of God, comes to the world the first word he says won't be mom and dad, he will say - oh, dear, the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9760	National MP, none of the quoted members have been injured. The illustration you cited is false. The first and second reminders to the MPs you spoke of were given following a warning that there was no talk of informal sitting and that it was not possible to talk about the presidency usurping the presidency. So by looking at the stenogram, you will see that you are in error when you felt that these members of the Rules of Procedure were injured. National MP Vladan Jeremic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). And you said inaccuracy that Nada Kolundzija is the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, is the president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I am using my parliamentary right to do so on the basis of Article 226. I ask the Rules of Procedure for an explanation from the President of the Assembly when the highest legislative home of the Serbian state has in any way approved in any form what began today in one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Today, for those who don't want to or won't understand, it began with a practical announcement of the so-called. independent Kosovo countries. Mission Eulex, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, is nothing more than the legalisation of the Martti Ahtisaari and the European Union's perfided plan, which, I recall, practically 95% of the member states have long recognised Kosovo's independence. For all your attempts to present to Serbian citizens through the media, there is absolutely no other way to be demystified, but here at the assembly speaker. When I pointed out a few days ago to the failure of Minister for Kosovo and Metohija Goran Bogdanovic, who, to remind myself, was also in the ministerial chair of the government of Bajram Rexhepi, who did not even care about the state providing heat in December for its compatriots who were exposed to years of harassment by most of the Shiptarian lives, I warned that the culmination would follow exactly by accepting Eulex, as a criminal expedition that should complete this hellish plan to take away not only territory, but also the history of the Serbian state. What about those people in Cosmet who want to respect only the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia? What happens now to the ramp in Strpec we talked about earlier? Who will now protect these people or, rather, who will prevent the Albanians from usurping Shara? I do not want to talk about the constitutional obligation of the President of the Republic, the preservation of sovereignty, the territorial integrity of the state. It's no use, because, unfortunately, it's virtual, the Shaper Media Serbia at the moment is more powerful than the real Serbia. The problem is that you forgot that no one will escape the court of time. It is never too late, as it is not honorable to treat the ruling majority in this way, gentlemen, to what is happening today. By giving up history, we give up the future. What kind of state are we becoming? The key is what Belgrade's goal is. A official at the Council of Ministers of the Union says: the new government in Belgrade has paved a path that leads to a clear solution. If the solution is an independent Kosovo, then – shame on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9762	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. He's not there. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Milenić, giving up. The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, to you who are celebrating the Holy Alimpi today, congratulating the glory. I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and I am asking the competent authorities to give an explanation of what the statement of Javier Solana has recently stated – the initial operational capacity. What does that mean? One of the biggest Serbs, the man who ordered Serbia to be bombed in 1999, to kill Serbian children and women, said the mission was Eulex 5. 12. In 2008, it received "original operational capacity", I quote, and will begin work in Kosovo 9. 12. In 2008, it means today. Then Solana continued: "I warmly welcome the announcement of the initial operational capacity of Eulex in Kosovo. The mission can begin. "It continued: "The Eulex mission has been deployed to help Kosovo progress towards reaching European standards in the area of police, justice, customs. "In his words, the mission will be crucial to the consolidation of the rule of law in Kosovo. Javier Solana is heading towards achieving his goal, ethnically and brutally cleaning up Serbs in Kosovo. Whether or not, but on the day two old people, Bogdanovic's married couple, were found in the village of Kriljevo near Kosovo Kamenica, were seen by the Kosovo police, as well as the Eulexa executive unit. The goal of the Eulexa mission is to re-occupy Kosovo as soon as possible, especially in the Serb environments. UNMIK chief Lamberto Zaneri said the mission's goals after four months will no longer be UNMIK, and that the same role in integration will be given to Eulexa, as counterpart Kragovic and the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Todorovic said this morning, that there is no more UNMIK markings in Kosovo, but that the labels are Eulexa. Peter Feith said Kosovo has a constitution, that it will soon have a constitutional court and laws that will be passed by Kosovo institutions. Feith stressed that the Eulexa mission is a project of Kosovo's independence and achieving what has been set up before and has already been achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9764	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9765	I'm calling on Article 27 again. The public is aware that this member of the Rules of Procedure is brutally violated in the National Assembly and that there is virtually no effect on the infringement process on any very frequent change, the flying change in the chairmanship of the National Assembly. Now I'm going to try in a few words to explain what this Article 27 injury is going on. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, it is seen that the National Assembly, according to the idea of DS and Boris Tadic, should deal with some marginal issues, which may be interesting to columnists of some also commissioned newspapers, and that, in doing so, it is not at all concerned with what life is in the Republic of Serbia. One of these questions is this, which is very often talked about from this pay phone this morning, and yesterday I announced that it would be a big problem, and this is the consent and consent of Boris Tadic and his Association for Breaking Up Serbia. Now I would like to show you why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are unable to understand... They are objectively able to understand, but given this media domination, their attention is focused on other things. So terror started; it started at the house of Darka Mladic, continued in Kosovo and Metohija. But, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, know, according to the new budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, which they have been working on for months, we are moving forward towards the European Union. It's the one that takes away Kosovo and Metohija and makes the starting position for Vojvodina. In 2009, there will be almost no customs duty on goods coming from the EU, and this deficit in the budget will be compensated by increasing excise duties on everything that life is in the Republic of Serbia: oil, gasoline, coffee, beer, so I wouldn't be surprised to start with air. So if you suffer, you enter a permanent state of suffering. I call upon you to raise your voice because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is your constitution. Raise your voice and take care, run as far away from the Democratic Party and Boris Tadic as they have a foreign exchange – the worse, the better for them. Do not allow Serbia to be overcome by primitiveism recognised by the Bodrum vote, the Thessaloniki vote, the arrests, the sale of our banks and the destruction of domestic economy. Of course, since you won't accept this as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to make the Democratic Party's statement in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9766	There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, in any of the positions, and the National Assembly will declare itself in the day of the vote. It cannot be called on to declare individual political parties and parliamentary groups, but the National Assembly is being declared. National MP Nikola Savic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform Serbian citizens that the great success of our diplomacy, which was advertised to all bells, through all media, has resulted in the installation of the Eulex mission in Kosovo. We can see there's a lot of talk about this Eulex mission. I have the impression that a lot of people in Serbia, and maybe some in this room, don't understand enough what this mission is and what it's about. I'll try at the shortest to tell you what's the point of it. If the EU is short-lived by the European Union, leks means law, essentially, the law of the European Union is implemented below. The state of Serbia, the Serbian government, has never given approval to install and implement EU laws on its territory. What's the point of all this? The goal is also in the northern part of Kosovo, which was de facto controlled by Serbia, where the Shiparis do not live, because we know that only after World War II is this part of the administrative road attached to Kosovo, to establish control and to take away that part of it. If this diplomatic victory of yours, as you call it, gave this result, I can only say it is a defeat for Serbia. What counterpart Krasic, a Serbian citizen, says, every victory of the Democratic Party means your defeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9768	People's MP, you didn't ask for any notice. I warn you that this is an abuse of a silent agreement the way we use the invitation to members 225 and 226. You can't give anyone notice, especially you can't tell lies to a congregation speaker. I warn you, indeed, that in the course of your exposure, you shall request any notice from any authority or organisation that you may not bring yourself into the space of breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9769	Of course, so often and mass violation of article 27 inevitably leads to the violation of Article 104, because if in the National Assembly such insults the dignity of the MPs, and almost all the MPs, I am absolutely sure of it, and those who are silent, sigh (I know that they find it difficult to survive here, because neither the guilty nor the debtor should share fate with someone who is in a difficult depressed state travels to Russia), I must warn you, dignity has been violated and so that the President of the Republic of Serbia has several criminal reports and it is uncertain what will happen with these criminal charges. If you doubt what I said, ask Mr Todorovic, as he is the author of several criminal proceedings against Boris Tadic. In this depression, of course, in order to preserve power, to preserve the position, people say, a man is a little "breathed" and tells citizens that their jobs are being kept by crowbars, that defending the workplace is the most important task. I think it is also an important task, but it is a much more important task to fulfill the oath he took in the National Assembly -- that with all his heart, with all his potential, regardless of his mental state, whether euphoria or depression, he will respect territorial integrity, sovereignty and that all his human and superhuman efforts will focus on the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, towards the preservation of the Republic of Serbia. Inform him that tomorrow is Human Rights Day, that as a statesman his conduct should be brought into line with something that is an international obligation. Human rights should be respected. Human rights must be respected, and in particular the human rights of our citizens in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija must be respected. I would very much like to read you the relevant provision of the Constitution, but I have already received one warning because I have read the Constitution. Unfortunately, thanks to this concept of the Democratic Party, the constitution has become a forbidden reading in the National Assembly. It seems a little paradoxical, but it is a cruel truth in the Republic of Serbia since DS was in power. Since the Democrats came to power, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must not be quoted. It's probably dangerous to quote the Democratic Party's statutes, given what we had the opportunity to hear on Saturday's tide. So somewhere they're afraid of the Democrats, somewhere they're encouraged by the Democrats. All citizens of the Republic of Serbia fear such a Democratic Party, because it has a strong team behind it: the NATO Pact, Javier Solana, the EU, EULEX, and that I do not order that list of all those accused of crimes committed against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I'll get back to you, Mrs. Comic, and I appreciate your sincere desire to go to Europe as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9770	There is no breach of Article 27, and there is no breach of Article 104, especially because you did not provide any part of the infringement of the procedure concerning any of the views of Article 104. I assume it's a slip, you said MP Dragan Todorovic was "the author of criminal proceedings". That's the thing that needs... With insight into the stenogram, you can see that MP Zoran Krasic said Dragan Todorovic is the author of criminal proceedings. I'm asking you to put it in a stenogram to probably think of criminal charges without being the author at the time, but the applicant. National MP Sladjan Mijaljević wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9771	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, Article 226. I ask the question of the human rights defender and the Government of the Republic of Serbia – are Serbian citizens of the second row and are the institutions of the Serbian state the institutions of the second row relative to one institution that comes to us from several thousand kilometers away, and here I mean the armed forces of the United States? The agreement signed by the president of the country on 7 September 2006 speaks of the following: "Serbia will allow the United States of America access and use of those facilities that could be needed to implement an interstate partnership programme and other activities on which the parties reach agreement including, but not limited to, transportation, warehouses and training facilities. Access and use of these facilities will be enabled without compensation. The status of US personnel will be equivalent to the status of US Embassy administrative and technical staff. The U.S. personnel are authorized to wear a uniform, so they can, without uniforms, "during their official duties in relation to activities and carry weapons while on duty, if authorized by their own orders. The parties will co-operate to take the necessary measures to provide security to US personnel and the property of the Republic of Serbia." This means that our army and police will be the outer circle of security for our conquerors, or those who have come and enslave us, is just a matter of when they will appear here in full light, parade and working uniforms. "The US Armed Forces and US personnel are exempt from paying taxes and other similar taxes applied in the Republic of Serbia. US Armed Forces and US personnel can import, export and use personal property, equipment, supplies, materials, technologies, conduct training and provide services to implement this agreement in the Republic of Serbia. Such imports, exports and use will be excluded from the inspection process, licences, other restrictions, customs payments, taxes and other duties applied in the Republic of Serbia. "So I ask if our institutions and our citizens are second-class citizens, because under this agreement some are far above us. "Aircraft and aircraft owned, or operated or operated exclusively for the purposes of the US armed forces will be exempt from paying airport and port taxis, parking taxis, piloting port fees and port trailer services and other similar taxis in buildings owned and operated by the Republic of Serbia. Airships owned, controlled or operated exclusively for the purposes of US armed forces are not subject to the payment of navigation, flyover, terminal use or similar taxis when they are in the Republic of Serbia. The U.S. Armed Forces will pay the appropriate fees for the requested and provided services in the amount of no less... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... of the one who pays for the army of Serbia. Airships, vehicles, U.S. vessels will be excluded from the inspection procedure." Please answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9772	Is anyone else answering for a word in the debate? You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9773	By a scandalous way of applying Article 27, you are really insulting elemental dignity. I think your custody of the application of the Rules of Procedure is already taking the elements of some permanent patient state with a tendency to grow into something serious. Why is the Rules of Procedure applied this way? Why is this the case, first of all, the right to criticism, the right to say, the right to express an opinion, an attitude, a political view, by legitimate representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? The answer is very simple, you have to understand that in some ways, some maneuvers through the media have to stifle criticism and reasoned criticism. Just to remind you, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, know the danger to Serbia when the Democratic Party rules. Perhaps you didn't know, in 2001, the debt of the Republic of Serbia was six billion dollars. Since we've been successfully relieved of some claims from the London and Paris Club, you've calculated that this debt will be reduced. Meanwhile, he grew to $30 billion. I'm deliberately speaking in dollars, I don't want to tell you in dear Euros, because it's a much larger number, so it's easier to remember. So, this assistance from the European Union is reduced to taking away Kosovo and Metohija, to create a starting position towards the abduction of Vojvodina, to create a starting position for Dobrice Cosic's life-form, called - the collapse of the nation under one plum. You must understand that in time to be informed, and if you are not informed, if you still agree to be deceived by DS, then you bear responsibility not only for yourself but also for your generations. The generations will ask you, how could you believe? It's kind of like that show, "But it's turning around," when you look at the high-minded speaking to you, dear President Tito, so now people are laughing -- is it possible that someone said it then? It would be good to continue this session, to have a pleasant event, in the background to play music from the film "Grom into Straws" or from another of our films; the music of Zoran Simjanović, it will very well remind you of the harsh reality, of the harsh present and to tell you what the future will be if you continue to believe the Democratic Foreigner and Boris Tadic who has broken all possible oaths.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9774	There's no damage to article 27. None of the MPs have been denied the right and none of the MPs are allowed to violate any of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Does anyone want to talk about the details of article 7? (Verica Radeta, from Place: Article 7 has 19 amendments. What amendment is it? ) National MPs, this session today is open to debate on details, an amendment submitted to article 7, by MP Milovan Radovanovic, and we have been on hold since the opening of the session of the National Assembly. I would ask the MPs to take care of the session itself. So, does anyone want to discuss the details of Article 7? National MP Milovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 paragraph 1 to add the words "in Aleksinec" to point 2) after the words "infraction courts". Given that the Bill on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors stipulates that there is no basic misdemeanor in Alexinac, with several amendments I have tried (and, of course, still trying) to persuade the representatives of the Government and the Government's creditors, as well as the assembly majority, to accept the reasons that I have stated here for the speaker in order to justify the survival of the municipality's criminal court in Alexinac, now following a new proposal from the basic criminal court, i.e. only the criminal court, as well as the basic court and the public prosecutor's office in Aleksinac. The government in response says it does not accept my amendment for the reasons set out for not accepting the amendments of MP Dujovic Saša, and in an explanation for not accepting the amendments, the government has stated that an amendment proposing an increase in the number of infringement courts has not been accepted. Given that I am the applicant for the amendment to Article 2, which also refers to predicting the existence of a criminal court in Aleksinc, the government stated in that explanation that the most important reason was the information it received from the Ministry of Justice on the inflow of cases and on the necessary number of judges. The inflow of the case on average for 2005, 2006 and 2007 was 3,515 in the municipal infringement authority in Aleksinc. The number of misdemeanor judges in Aleksinc is five, so it doesn't stand that reason as justified, given that in other criminal courts the inflow of cases, the number of cases and the number of judges is smaller than in Alexinac. What confuses me a little bit, of course, is that the government, as it says, is calling for the Ministry of Justice to manage certain parameters, that's the number of judges and the inflow of cases, but at the same time in response to that amendment, it says... Given that this amendment is also related to the submission of the amendment, the need to explain the reason in this connection is unequivocal, and I am now stating, explaining and commenting on these very reasons. It says, there are certain deviations from these parameters, so the geographical distance is listed, and I have cited also the following amendment where you were not consistent in applying these parameters. I believe that the basic problem with the fact that the Ministry of Justice, and later the Government, when considering the draft and sending it to the Assembly for consideration as a bill, was not consistent in the application of these parameters. In most cases, it may be, but there are a number of cases where you haven't done so, when you state the reasons why you didn't accept certain amendments, that is, why you did not provide in the law's proposal that basic courts remain, both the prosecution and the law enforcement bodies, as is the case with Alexinac. Of course, in the light of the justification of the amendments submitted, the MPs presented much behind this speaker. I believe that the greatest deviation in the application of parameters exists precisely in the case of Alexinca, when it comes to the criminal court, the basic court, or the present municipal court and the public prosecutor's office. Later, if I have time, I'll give you these deviations and inconsistencies; if not, then I'll explain it in more detail by some other amendment. You specified the proximity of tourist sites as a deviation from these parameters, criteria, or criteria. Controversy is an example of not being like that. Further, close to the border. The scribe is an example that's not the case. You stated that all jobs were done later in the D.A.'s departments, i.e. in the judicial units. Well, it's not like that. Administrative and legal affairs will continue to be carried out in primary courts, in criminal courts. The special story is that there will be no effective work and normal functioning of bulky courts. Here is the basic problem, gentlemen from the ruling majority or the gentlemen of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that by centralising judicial authorities, first-degree (except in cases where there are justifications and there are) they will be made a big problem in the functioning of these organs. The obvious example is Nis, when it comes to the basic court, the criminal court and the public prosecutor's office. Certain areas that are regulated thus, through the centralization of their functioning, say, health services, social security, say this is a huge mistake. You'll see, as far as functioning is concerned, the efficiency of work in the first-degree process, there will be a lot of problems. We in the state will have problems with the work of these bulky courts where territorially there was their accumulation, as in the case of Nisa, given that the district is large and there was added, when it comes to the criminal court, and Žitoraj, which belongs to another district. Not to mention total centralisation and general politicisation of the work of judicial authorities or judiciary. We have an example, these days there's been a terrible pressure on the work of certain judges in Nis, I mean the current District Court. For the case in Aleksinc, SO held a session and made certain decisions in accordance with the regulations, law and normative acts of SO. Now there is politicization, or pressure on judges, for which I have knowledge and believe they are honorable and that they will do and judge those who are unhappy with the regulations, that is, the law and the Rules of Procedure of SO Alexinac. I believe that, and I am convinced, because I have information that this is about extremely honest and honest judges. But it is inadmissible to conduct this politicization and to state the reason – there will be re-election so that you will see whether you will be elected judge of the district court now, and later to a higher court or basic court, etc. A colleague, Zoran Krasic, throws out the bench that Bosko Ristic is doing. That's exactly how he is, among other things. This is indeed inadmissible, and I expect that the judges of the district court, as well as of the competent Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, will do in accordance with the law, and I have great confidence in the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government of Mr Milan Markovic. A misdemeanor in Aleksinc, as a law enforcement body, had the highest number of cases after the Nish infringements. Given that, you know better, misdemeanor courts will continue to decide on cases related to customs, foreign currency violations and tax offences, about eight and a half thousand cases are expected annually, and I have already stated to you that the average for the last three years is 3,515 cases. For the Municipal Court in Aleksinec, it is even more justified to survive as the primary court in Aleksinec. The Aleksinac municipal court now has an average of 14049 cases. The inflow of the object was 9,022 objects. As for the other criteria and parameters that you've managed, I don't know if I'll be able to explain, given the time, but I'll list them with some of the following amendments. Not to talk about Alexine a little bit wider: business, industry, privatisation, illegal. The "Frad" was sold for 800,000 euros, and at market price it is worth about 14.5, one at a time, and another at about 20m euros. Not to mention "Fahope" sold in bankruptcy; PIC - giant in agriculture, a agricultural industrial combination in Alexinac – on Friday, December 5th, the auction sales failed. Why? Because no one answered, not because nobody's interested, but they're waiting for the next auction privatisation to drop the price. Who's got their eye on it? He threw around someone you sold three sugars for three euros. A barracks in Aleksinc, against the government's decision on the master, which evicted some barracks in Serbia... There's no government decision on the eviction of the barracks in Aleksinec. Why was she evicted? Because someone took a look at the property of the barracks, about 25 acres. Boris Tadic and Zdravko Ponosa's decision sold the barracks, i.e. the land of Miroslav Miskovic. Now Miroslav Miskovic owns the barracks, so the whole of Serbia and these former MPs in the Serbian Parliament, who do not decide on politics, which, among other things, are deciding on. What's the perspective for young people in Alexinco? I'm talking about Alexinac, but that's the case in most of the places in Serbia. They're out of school, they're out of work, they're supposed to start a marriage, they're supposed to start a family, they're thinking about going abroad more than ever. This is the basic problem of today's life in Serbia. It is difficult to exercise law with judicial authorities in Aleksinec and other places. The protection of these rights will be even more difficult after the entry into force of this law. As one of the reasons for not accepting amendments relating to judicial authorities in Aleksinc, you stated that the proposed network of basic courts, of course and infringing, would allow a much larger number of judges to act in cases. No matter what number of judges, any judge can have one case at a time, it is important that they are effective in carrying out court proceedings, that they are effective, that they are not too bulky, and that judges are not missing in solving certain cases. It says – it is necessary to avoid the influence of the local environment on the work of judges. Please, our judiciary is in a solid state regarding the legal work of judges. Of course, there are exceptions. Given that Alexine is a small place, I'd hear no violations of the law by judges, prosecutors, judges for violations. There may be some individual cases I haven't heard of, but basically, judges are doing their job legally, which is good. So there is no influence of the local environment, although the environment is small; there is no influence of local politicians, I will not say tycoon, because it is a small place, but local financial powers, if there are at all; there is no influence of anyone on the work of judges and judicial authorities. As one of the important reasons for the refusal of amendments in the case of judicial authorities and the criminal court in Aleksinc, you stated that it was a small inflow of the case, that it was an irrational survival of such courts and that it was a small number of judges. I listed earlier the 2007 data: the inflow of cases at the Municipal Court in Aleksinc was 9,022; the number of judges - 14, and it is foreseen by decision, you know that decision, I guess from 1991, 18 judges. This can't really stand as a reason, especially because you've predicted the survival of basic courts and criminal courts in those places that have far less reasons for the criteria and parameters you call upon, and brought by the Ministry of Justice. In parallel with the following amendments, I'll give you some breaking and basic courts in which places survive, and not in Aleksinec. This deviation is not individual, the parameters were not consistently respected until the end and that is the basic problem. You're saying that as one of the parameters, you took the development of the travel network. He's Alexine, Malten, on the highway. In addition to the Alexine, the highway passes, the railways, and we hope that sometimes Morava will be a water river; the highway to Sokobanja. So how can this parameter be applied in some cases, and for Alexine, that criterion, the parameter, that criterion absolutely can't stand? Furthermore, there are other reasons to suggest that you, as a representative of the government, as well as to the people's MPs who will decide where you referred to the infringing courts that the density of population is also one of the parameters... (President: 15 minutes and 30 seconds. I'm finishing up, Mrs. Comic, in one sentence. The population density for a court that is smaller than Alexinac, for example, Pirot is 52 inhabitants per km square, and Alexinac - 91. I'm not saying that Pirot shouldn't have a mistrial, that someone doesn't get me wrong, but I think Alexine should have one, too. I will report later to the amendments of some other MPs, and I have another amendment of my own.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9776	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact that parliament is not today discussing what is the most important topic in Serbia today is actually talking about the violation of Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of the violation of Article 106, that is, the dignity of the National Assembly. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, spend today working on another topic if we know about the fact that the Eulex mission has begun to possess Kosovo and Metohija, that this actually means the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija, obviously with the consent of the president of the state, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These days we've been listening to praises about some diplomatic action, some diplomatic successes. Meanwhile, we insisted on putting on the agenda a motion for a resolution of 108 MPs. We didn't understand. The President of Parliament was in violation of the Rules of Procedure. This morning, she tried to convince us that she had put the motion for a resolution on the agenda, but the assembly majority voted not to discuss the resolution by an urgent procedure, but to do so regularly. It has been almost half a year since then and, of course, it has never occurred to anyone that we are discussing here, in order for this Parliament and the MPs to give some frameworks within which the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia should move, because no one has the right... We all swore and talked about that no one would ever sign any act that would endanger Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. But the one who agreed to relocate Eulex actually signed the occupation of part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There is no explanation, because we haven't heard from him in this previous period, neither what dots, nor who has defined any points that might be acceptable, we don't know for whom, perhaps for Boris Tadic and his government, but for this parliament, for the citizens of Serbia, for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, there is no excuse for what happened today, it is an occupation. At least this day we'd have to commit to it, if it's not too late, and it is quite late, and I don't know when we're going to discuss our people... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I see, Mrs. Comic, and that's exactly what I'm trying to say, that this should be our topic today for discussion with unlimited time for every MP, not to see if we've spent three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9778	People's MPs, there's no violation of Article 27, especially with the explanation you gave. What I have to do is apply the Rules of Procedure, which prescribes that time is available to a MP who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure for three minutes. I very clearly say "three minutes and 30 seconds" because I think it's 30 seconds enough for each speaker to complete the thought he started within three minutes, as I ask every MP who interferes with the mind to indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure is hurt to do so in the third minute. Your views on what should or should not be on the agenda are not an example of infringement of the procedure, nor of Article 27, because there is a third session, and on the agenda is a debate on the details of the 6th item of the agenda. National MP Sladjan Mijaljević wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9779	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear colleagues, in light of the events that have been happening to us in recent years, months, weeks, days, what happened tonight, what will happen in the coming days, under Rule 226, I am asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of the Interior, Director of the BIA, what have they done about the information they received a few years ago, some of them? I'll read that information. In Geneva, 19, 20 and 21 September 2003, representatives of the Vatican, America, Germany and England made hellish plans for Vojvodina and its peoples. Through the "Barbarosa 5" plan, Vojvodina's demographic structural change, the first thing to do is to subdue Vojvodina economically to the purchase of land and businesses, and then do everything to break down the spiritual link with Serbia. Just to remind you how many times Mr. Petar Jojic has been asking a question here and counting the many businesses on the other side of the Danube that bought thousands and thousands of hectares here. The military institution "Karadjordevo" must move into the ownership of Croatian businessmen, with the help of the World Bank, as it will be the defence of an independent Vojvodina, which will be part of the restoration of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. To change the demographic structure of the population, to drive away all Serbs, about 400,000, via Sava and Danube, who came to Vojvodina by colonization after 1945. For the ethnic cleansing of Serbs and insubordination of other minorities, hire and promoters (they are no longer Ustashas, now they are builders) from western Herzegovina and terrorists from Cosmeta. Zemun cleans it from Serbs and turns it into a Croatian town, which will be the dam of an independent Vojvodina towards Serbia. This associates me with some events related to some malfeasance and the violent takeover of the Zemun municipality over the past few weeks by some patriots. Otherwise, three or four months ago, I asked twice for the Serbian Parliament to form a committee for Vojvodina. I then fenced myself by saying that we had a committee for both Kosovo and Metohija, but that people headed by the Serbian state institutions are doing nothing or almost nothing in defending the state of Serbia, its institutions and the population, that they will do nothing about the Vojvodina, but we are asking that it be opened, put on the agenda. Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9780	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 103. A Rules of Procedure that says the MP can only speak about the topic, that is, the part of the agenda of the current congregation. For days, we see that he has been trying to speak beyond this subject by calling on the members of the 25, 26, 27, but how convenient it is to whom, without any twisting, to address the congregation’s pay phone to the people. That's nice, it's a national assembly, only it's a task of the National Assembly to pass laws, it's a legislative authority, and anyone who interferes with the Assembly's legislative work de facto is working against the Constitution because it doesn't allow certain institutions to do their job. We have one topic here that is certainly important to everyone. There's a question of motivation, emotion, and most often it's about patriotism, and I'd say, there's another word that's not mentioned, which is solidarity, and then it has to do with the crisis. When the country is in crisis, when there are problems, then patriotism is precisely calling for solidarity for everyone to solve this crisis, to defend the country, to do the most important things. Therefore, the function of patriotism is uniting people to solve a problem together, not destruction, bringing conflict, fighting, because it is not patriotic and does not contribute to the solution. We're talking about Eulex here today as an occupation. This means that Kosovo was free, ours completely, and then some dishonest Eulex came and occupied it. I have been in this parliament for a long time, and the Kosovo issue has long been raised. I would like to remind you of the day when Prime Minister Bulatovic submitted exposures to our victory over NATO, the preservation of our sovereignty, integrity, etc. I wouldn't want to repeat now what I was saying about those victories of ours. The problem is that Resolution 1244, which we are referring to, has been brought by the Security Council, and this same Security Council has now issued a presidential statement that part of the business is transferring to Eulex. The presidential statement was also voted by representatives of Russia and representatives of China, etc. Let us not forget that then the solution to the Kosovo issue came based on the joint peace action of Chernomirdin, the former prime minister of the Russian government, and Ahtisaari. Now, what's important here, what we're fighting about, I'd like to invite you to something called reality -- to see how we can help people in Kosovo. Has UNMIK's reign so far been better for security, because we have repeatedly attacked that people cannot move, that they are insecure, etc., than what EULEX is bound to do, which is to establish what kind of rule of law? It's not good for anyone to make any of it real, nor can it make any political capital, calling for solidarity at... (President: Four minutes, MP. )......................................................................................................... which, by the way, serious peoples always apply, as Churchill used to say, when England was the only free country in Europe -- I promise you tears, this, that, but let's be together. And they acted together and managed to maintain themselves. If we want to help people and maintain ourselves as a serious state, then we need to understand patriotism and solidarity that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9782	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9783	I'm reporting from Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and above all, I would like to tell Mr Micunovic that according to the Constitution, the jurisdiction of the Assembly involves 12 points; within his election rights, the National Assembly has six more points to deal with. One of the things is the adoption of the law, no doubt it's the most important, but only one of these 12 points. What you said here was '99. In the year some Prime Minister claimed that we won the NATO Pact, it is not different from the claims that you are making today when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, with the claim at the time having much more ground than what you are saying today. Both claims had the political goal of presenting to Serbian citizens the reality, which was extremely bad and difficult, in a way better than it is. If, as reasonable people, we look at the situation of Kosovo in '99. years after the adoption of the UN Resolution, and today, it's such a huge difference that you can't mention at all. You here knowingly deceive the public. In 1999, we had Resolution 1244. Today we have a statement from the president, or Secretary General of the UN. There's a huge difference between a letter and a resolution. The resolution is binding. That the parts of the resolution that applied to Serbia were not met, that's another thing, that's violence, terror. That's why we were bombed in '99. A year. What you have done is a conscious con of the citizens of Serbia, the betrayal of Kosovo and Metohija. You say the Russians voted for it, too. Sergei Lavrov warned you and said: We cannot be greater Serbs than you Serbs; if you accept EULEX, if it is good for you, it is good for us. Mr. Micunović, how can you claim such a thing? Haven't you heard that the flag of the United Nations is being removed from the administrative borders, that the administrative border from yesterday becomes the borders of the state of Kosovo and Metohija? All of these previous procedures we talked about led to this moment, to accept EU and US requirements and to allow for the establishment of the Eulex mission that comes exclusively to implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan. I think the conditions have been met to raise the question of resolving the President of the Republic, but I'm going to make a second call about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9784	The MP said that there was a breach of Article 104. There's no breach of Article 104. If the previous speaker had broken any member of the Rules of Procedure, he would have been warned, and a warning would have been made. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. People's MPs can't agree on how they'll get their word. Since all MPs agree, I am pleased that the MPs of the ruling majority and opposition have agreed on something. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic has his word, and MP Milan Stanimirovic, if he wishes, will have to wait for all other MPs who want to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9785	I tried to speak rationally and wisely, but I have the impression that I have not come across the understanding of certain MPs. What is crucial is this: what is the alternative to what has been done so far? For the first time in the history of our diplomacy, we have achieved that we can come up with a motion for a resolution that will be voted by the majority and address the International Court of Justice. We have spoken from the beginning – we will not war, we will try diplomatic and legal means, we will defend international rights to protect our constructions in Kosovo and Metohija. What's the alternative? Do nothing or, worse, try some violent means to solve it. We have achieved not only that but also what we have committed to the Resolution, that there will be no change to Resolution 1244, that it remains and that we have managed to get EULEX under that company, so, with the approval of the Security Council, respecting Resolution 1244, to regulate legal life in Kosovo and Metohija, whose situation is now desperate for our citizens. What's most important is citizens, let's see how they get better. The fact that we're going to fight with the whole world, with China, with America, with Europe, with all of us alive, we've had the opportunity to see and know what led us. We're doing a serious job, in a serious way, in accordance with the international community, and it's our only strength. Everything else is a daytime thing, but I don't want to deal with it, and I won't answer to it anymore. Please, let's talk seriously about what it is that you're offering to save Kosovo. You've had so many times to save him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9786	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9787	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. Mr. Micunović, we need to accept some things that are real. You have to ask someone and see what it's called when you keep avoiding to accept reality. You want to convince the citizens of Serbia what you believe and think, that's exactly what you want. You can do this for good purposes, I believe it's a good intention, but that intention can be bad. First of all, when you talk about this great victory of our diplomacy, it is practically flossular and targeted to bring Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija into this position. We've discussed this a few times, and I'm going to tell you now. Mr Micunovic, the fact that we invested all the cards on diplomatic activity in order to get support for a resolution that the International Court would say whether Kosovo and Metohija's declaration of independence was based on international law or not, you have to admit, essentially means nothing. Immediately after the resolution was adopted, Macedonia and Montenegro recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. That's one thing. Secondly, the international court's decision is absolutely not binding on either side. It can mean nothing, and it doesn't have to mean anything. The third thing, which can be bad for us: the decision made by that court can be turned around and retaliated because there are certain moments in international law on the basis of which certain territory can gain independence. These are former colonies, parts of the state that were under military occupation, and what is particularly dangerous for us, these are parts of the territory on which some national minorities living who have been denied religious, cultural, economic, political and other opportunities to manifest themselves as a people. You should not be convinced that for the last 20 years in the world, this is all there is to talk about when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. That's what's essential. You say, "What shall we do?" If we are unable to determine that, it was likely that it was able to determine 77,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija who signed it, who came here to the Serbian Parliament, asked for the reception of the President of the Republic and requested that the Eulex mission not be accepted. If you don't trust us, I guess you should trust those people living in Kosovo and Metohija. Or are they, for God's sake, being manipulated again by some who wanted to do what they did? Mr. Micunovic, the least you could do is have the government attend a session scheduled by representatives of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, or the president of the municipalities, to come to Kosovo Mitrovica and tell them clearly and loudly what awaits them. If they had anything to say to them, they'd go downstairs. Just because they're aware of the facts about what's ahead of them, they shouldn't have gone to tell them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9788	There is no violation of Article 104, nor has the presentation of the MP contributed to the explanation of the infringement of Article 104. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9789	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to talk about Article 104 concerning Mr Micunovic's presentation. I'd like to speak under Article 226. So, first by Article 104. Mr. Micunovic, you went out for a pay phone and you called on a member of 103 who says the MP should talk about a subject on the agenda, but you rarely speak in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Last night, the MPs of the opposition were denied the right to discuss the subject. I went out and intervened. Right, Madam President? So you deny us the fundamental right to talk about the subject and the things that matter to the citizens of Serbia. So much for your respect for the work of the Serbian Parliament. In accordance with Article 226. Yesterday, a city in the Republic of Serbia was on the verge of destruction. Yesterday thousands of human lives were at risk. At a session of the Committee on Environmental Protection, on 2 October and 5 November, I warned the Minister of Ecology about the problem and said that the town of Loznica lies at 500 tonnes of carbon disulfide. The environment minister assured me it was completely safe. Here's how safe it is. He asked for money in the budget's rebalancing to get rid of it, and the money from the budget's rebalancing is arched in every way possible, and then when people's lives are at risk for it, there's no money. That's the responsibility you're carrying in your work so far. Instead of after this, the environment minister comes and resigns here in front of all of us, he does not appear and makes any official statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9790	On behalf of the People's Parliament, as for the statement of your request for violation of the Rules of Procedure as regards giving a word, I told you yesterday in an explanation that I apologized if this happened during the time I chaired, because it was possible that it happened in the crash. Since I wanted to establish the facts, I spoke to Vice President Nikola Novakovic and learned from him that he had had a conversation with you and that it was a lie that the MPs who wanted to talk about the amendment had not been given the floor. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: You confessed last night, take the stenogram. ( ) Since the MPs do not listen to explanations, then once again: yesterday, during a statement, or a desire to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and giving words in the debate in particular on amendments, you said that no word has been given to your MPs. I told you in an explanation that if it happened during the presidency, I apologize. Afterwards, I checked with Vice President Nikola Novakovic whether it happened that the word was not received when it was sought, he also spoke to you and it is not true that the MPs were not given the word. National MP Petar Jojic, along with the apology of MP Nikola Novakovic, was seen too late, but he was rightly given a word in the debate in details of the amendments, so I ask you not to tell the lies about the speaker of the National Assembly. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, already last night, tonight and this morning, a harsh violation of Article 104 is being made. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and harshly violates dignity and the National Assembly, both the peoples of Serbia and the state of Serbia as a whole. If it were an honor, if it were smart, today it would have to be, or tonight, that session would have to be interrupted and a new session with one single item of the agenda – Kosovo and Metohija and the entry of Eulex into Kosovo and Metohija. The theme is the theme of all themes. Today, we will continue to be deluded by some amendments to some laws while a rough, savage between two parts of Serbia sets a state border. I remind you of that encyclopedia sentence by the president of the National Assembly from a moment on, he says, "We have reached an agreement that we will make efforts to take a stand." When you've reached an agreement, let's all work together and take our stand. That's all we're looking for. Let us take a position as parliament on the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija, establishing a new state on Serbia's territory, establishing a state border in Serbia, on the absolutely wrong, tendingly wrong, not even telling the treasonous policy of the country's summit when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. All those preparations, all those departures, all the calls of the international court, all the complaints to the international court were in the role of ultimately dissuading the people of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, especially the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, and that what happened tonight was without great trouble. Let us take our views on the threat of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you of the articles in several written media outlets, the promises of the Cypriot bandits that Serb heads will arrive in Serbia. It's not Serbs living as exiled, it's Serbian heads without a Serb body. Is that a little familiar to you? Didn't this happen throughout history, didn't it happen in the last war that whenever the state of Serbia was in a situation like this, Serbian heads were cut off and sent to Serbia or buried past bodies? Let us take a stand on the protection of historical and cultural heritage and on the protection of these 15% of Serbia. Let us take a stand, finally, and on the 75,000 signatures of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. I'm done. Let us take a stand on 75,000 requests, about 75,000 calls for the state to protect its subjects. It is the obligation of this Parliament and it is an obligation before all obligations, which we must bring to this Parliament. Stop more with the various laws to be applied in 2010, 2012, 2014 or 2020. Under this authority, Serbia's state will certainly not be there.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9792	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). National MP Momir Markovic, if you have called for a violation of dignity, then you cannot say that the National Assembly is insinuating any laws. I ask you to compare your language to what we are required to observe the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9793	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for breach of the Rules of Procedure, 225th and 226, and I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government to... This is a key issue in the emerging situation, Kosovo drama – is it a force or a right in the presence of the Eulex mission? Kosovo and Metohija is Dusan's Serbia, its curse and prayer, its memory and its cradle. Kosovo and Metohija are for the Serbian people an unsustainable spiritual source, which our ancestors left to their descendants to inspire with harmony and truth. The violent secession of Kosovo and Metohija from the Serbian queen meant a painless wound and loss of integrity for the Serbian people. Serbian politicians in power have not always seen the dangers that came from foreign forces in a timely manner. They used power not to protect themselves properly, but to achieve their personal delusions, for example, ideological, material benefits. Filled with personal delusions, thinking only of their own benefit, foreign policy was viewed only through fog. No resolution that tries to realise an impious policy, to justify one's promise to be independent Kosovo and Metohija, which cannot pass, especially when representatives of the SRS, who will have a persistent stance on that basis... In Serbia, they should finally come out of the delusion that we are all alike and that we share a common national interest. Having a Serbian name and a last name means nothing to those who cut their national roots and closed all sources of their spiritual and national consciousness. Being proud of your ancestors and not being worthy of them is an act of self-respect. For me, Kosovo is an inseparable part of Serbia, the most important part of memory, learning, personal education, basic culture, traditions, history, the personal map of the Serbian people in which we are imprinted, where we are and how old we are. The Albanians stole our identity. They stole a "I.D." with the help of Eulex and America, and replaced the "image" that, as a forged document, some have confessed because they were threatened to ignore the little things and that it must be so if they want to be guarded by the most powerful force in the world. Kosovo, of course, will never be recognised by anyone in Serbia as an independent state. That is, in principle, the Constitution has established. The constitution on the one hand, and the fact that the situation requires prudence, diplomatic wisdom and the country of Serbia, which the long process of preserving Cosmeta can economically endure. It's familiar to everyone. If Serbia collapses economically, Kosovo is definitely lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9794	National MP Ljubomir Kragovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. I request an explanation from the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministries to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Namely, what's this about? There are currently three families present in the building, three spouses with nine children. It is the families of Misko Krstic from the village of Glogovac, the municipalities of Kosovo Kamenica, Dalibor Bakic from the village of Glogovac, the municipalities of Kosovo Kamenica and Goran Maksimović from the village of Glogovac, the municipalities of Kosovo Kamenica. They came and asked the Serbian state for help so that one of their families could get a job, so that they could have basic conditions and survive. In Kosovo and Metohija, there are many such endangered families as these three. Instead of Serbia dealing with how to help vulnerable families, how to have the basic means of living and working, regardless of the conditions for life are very difficult in Kosovo and Metohija, we are handing over Serbs to the mercy and mercy of Shiptar separatists and terrorists. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministries to meet these families to allow them to be employed by one of their families. I would like to refer to Mr Micunovic's exposure, which claims there has been a transformation of the mission, that a part of UNMIK has been replaced. I keep telling you that it's replaced by a complete UNMIK, that there is no UNMIK police officer. What we talked about earlier is that we always have problems when new missions come. When UNMIK was a mission in Kosovo and Metohija, 250,000 Serbs were expelled. We are now afraid this will happen again, not to repeat the scenario, and we have bitter experiences when these international forces came, both in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, and today in Kosovo and Metohija. The question arises why did none of the government representatives want to attend the meeting of the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly? If they were all prevented and busy with jobs, why didn't they empower Mr. Micunovic to come and explain to us what's good about coming with the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija; what's good about taking down the flag of the United Nations at the administrative crossings in Brnjak and Jarinj, and setting the European Union flags? Was it better to treat the problem of Kosovo and Metohija at European Union level or to be treated at the level of the United Nations? We know that in the United Nations we had a number of friends who wanted to help us and to protect Kosovo and Metohija to remain in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, and that we have very few friends in the European Union, with the exception of Cyprus, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, who want to help us preserve Kosovo and Metohija, and that there is a dominant England, which fulfils the tasks of America and that will do everything to protect Ahtisaari's plan and create a phantom state of Kosovo in the territory of the Serbian state, in the territory of Serbian shrines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9796	National MP Smiljana Milisavljevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9797	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I am reporting for article 100 and for Article 104, who is injured and who says: Members of Parliament are obliged to respect the dignity of the Assembly. I feel the need to address you as an MP who comes from Kosovo and Metohija and as someone who lives there today and plans to stay there. The aim of the initiative to talk today about Kosovo and Metohija is to cloud the essence and make the most important state issue subordinate to party interests. Kosovo and Metohija are under the international protectorate of the United Nations. It is clear to all of us that if the UN respects the peace mission, no matter what the mission is called, it will work under Resolution 1244. What does that mean? That means there is no independence for Kosovo, means there is no Ahtisaari's plan. There is no need to call on Ahtisaari's plan, nor for Ahtisaari to help you in an unsuccessful attempt to bring down the Serbian government and thus improve the rating of the parties. I would ask the question to former Minister for Kosovo and Metohija Mr Samardzic: have the famous actions of burning customs checkpoints, which you conducted while you were in power, brought something good to the Kosovo Serbs? No, they're not. The people lost the only railway link between central Kosovo and the north. It is not the protection of Serbian national interests. Nor is it the Serbian national interest to live in a criminal environment, nor is high politics clouding the perspectives of that people in Kosovo. A question for Mr Velimir Ilic: Where is the invisible water line that you have built for ten years and promised the people of Kosovo and Metohija? Do you know how many Serbs and non-Albanians applied to work in Eulex today? The number matches the number that was against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9798	National MPs, there is no violation of Article 104 in the presentations of MPs, each in his own way explains the breach of the Rules of Procedure or takes the opportunity to send a message in his own style. In any case, when a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure appears, I give the warning, and then I warn the MP. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9799	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to answer the lady who spoke and called me. It is true that we have promised that in northern Kosovo we will build a water supply pipeline for northern Kosovo, that there has been an international tender and that the international tender has been won by Tahal, that the price of the construction of a water pipeline for the complete supply of northern Kosovo is 14m euros and that it is all over, only that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is left to guarantee. At the time, Finance Minister Cvetkovic said he would give guarantees and did not give them until today. The tender was completed completely, the jobs were completed, recently I spoke to Minister for Kosovo and Metohija Mr Bogdanovic and asked him why this project was not done when it was all completely completed, the project documentation procedure and everything taken care of. He told me that Mr. Bogdanovic found a performer who is significantly cheaper and that the price of 14m euros is too high. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia should only give a written guarantee that work can be done and work can begin tomorrow. That's all the government of the Republic of Serbia has to do. Go ahead, ask the finance minister why he's not giving. The government has received a report that everything is fine, that the complete procedure is complete and will immediately begin construction. Please, let's not take the subject of an important debate being held in parliament right now. Gentlemen, how could you make a decision and who are you to make it without Parliament? Does it mean anything to you to bring Eulex to a small door? Oh, my God, you're... I listen, some of your people give statements here to the press and say -- that's Serbia's big diplomatic victory. You know, "What's he so smart about?" "that I don't speak any further. Therefore, gentlemen, you will have to answer for this eventually. How could you make such an important decision without Parliament? What's more, this is a referendum question. You've made a decision in the innermost circle of the ruling coalition. Half the coalition voted for an independent Kosovo, and we know that well, let's not call it here in line now. Half of your coalition is for an independent Kosovo and has worked to form an independent Kosovo institution. But, gentlemen, responsibility takes over the coalition headquarters, and your coalition headquarters is Mr. Tadic and DS. Sir, you're laughing a lot at these serious things. This isn't a laughing matter. Today is a sad day for Serbia... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... And you don't have to laugh like that. You said a lot of things here last night, which doesn't look like a street cleaner, let alone a MP. Sir, I'm not going to talk to you, I have no intention, but don't throw away when you're talking about a serious subject. Please get serious while I'm talking... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... And if others tolerate you, you do whatever you want. I'm not going to tolerate your stupidity and your rude behavior and throw away. I am last warning you, Mr. Millyvoy, to reason with you and to act normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9800	People's messengers, people's messengers cannot warn each other. To warn and warn of a breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be chaired. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic has been warned. MP Srdjan Milivojevic... [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Please, no direct duel. People's MP, please take your place. People's MP, please take your place. National MP, please do not have a dialogue between the benches and the row between the seats of the National Assembly and take your place. Thank you. MP Velimir Ilic... I ask you to take your place and not lead the controversy with the MPs. People's MPs, you can't threaten other MPs. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect both when speaking from a pay phone and when talking to each other during the session. MP Srdjan Milivojevic... He was warned about yesterday's incident. I ask you to leave the meeting and who will and when will be warned to the chairman, for it is the authority of the chairman rather than the other Members of the people. National MP Sladjan Mijaljević wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9801	Article 104 - dignity. After my speech for the pay phone, Mr. Micunovic came out and made several claims that really differ from what we wanted to say and what we've been saying for weeks and months. Mr. Micunovic said -- it's not time to fight and we shouldn't fight. I don't really see who's fighting here, we absolutely have no intention of fighting. We're just presenting reasoned evidence, asking certain questions and looking for certain answers and nothing more than that. Of course it's patriotic to solve certain economic problems in the country of Serbia, but some of the problems precede us so seriously that they crush our country and take away a piece of our territory. We'd really like to and we wanted to discuss these economic issues, but we've been waiting for the budget for a month and we got it at some time last night, and we still don't know when it's going to be on the agenda. So, when your ruling majority adopts certain laws on time and when certain budget proposals are made on time, we will also discuss it, however, now is the priority of what I have mentioned over the past hour. All three questions have so much information and are so serious that every well-intentioned man's legs would be cut off. However, you are constantly turning the subject to another side. We're getting into a situation called "the village burns and the grandmother combs." The dear lady who hasn't heard my question, and from Kosovo, she says she's an MP from Kosovo, it's just a matter of how long she'll be an MP from Kosovo... I just said something, and it's happening right now, it happened tonight, and it's going to happen in a few days, weeks and months. So, a meeting in Brussels, May 26, 2005, three years ago. After that, there were some other meetings, I'll keep you posted regularly. The Security Council resolution is to be adjudicated by standards and status and to create conditions for an independent Kosovo. Solana and Ahtisaari must be involved in all plans to crush Serbia, as they are the most suitable for achieving the goals of America and NATO. That's what's happening right now. What you don't want to see, the fact that you're putting a nettle on your eyes, that's your problem. We really don't want to fight, we want to talk. You've asked certain questions and I'm giving you answers. I've given answers to those questions before. The opposition asked for a certain resolution to come to the agenda, a month or two ago, we asked to discuss the subject. You keep avoiding it, that is, your ruling majority. For what? To keep Eulex from taking over all the ingenuity? Who do you tell this to, what day-to-day policy? It's not a daily policy, it's being conducted against Serbia for the past 20 years, now it's culmination for some territories. I asked you a question about Vojvodina, and you're always looking for something.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9802	National MP Jelena Trivan wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9803	Dear colleagues, I'm advocating Article 103(1). I'm so sorry that I'm forced to come by today and talk like this. I am sorry because I think that the citizens of Serbia at this point deserve a little more seriousness and maturity, especially for us MPs, and for the issue of Kosovo and for the matter of budget and exit from the economic crisis. They expect us to be serious, responsible and minimum of the common denominator and minimum of shared responsibility to these issues. I have no dilemma at all, and I fully agree with all of you, that Kosovo is most likely the most important issue we have in the country and that it must be absolutely spoken of in the Assembly, but I cannot understand if we agreed that by the end of the week we will have a session of the government on the Eulex issue, why today we are preventing the Assembly from working, we are preventing Serbia from getting a set of judicial laws, that citizens will be able to keep their passports in place, so that we can discuss two days earlier. It's not patriotism that hides behind it, I'm quite certain of it, but of other political interests. So if we have a chance to talk about Eulex by the end of the week, and it's with the government's representatives, in one credible and responsible way, why don't we take advantage of that possibility? Instead, we present today a serious concern for the citizens of Kosovo, which translates into: dear citizens of Kosovo, thanks to our behaviour, you will not get the budget in time, we will go to temporary funding, and you cannot live without that budget and it is the most needed for you because you are the poorest. Another message we send: the Eulexa mission would be deployed in one way and another, but our idea of it being without Serbia and without your consent, and instead, Serbia's leadership has done everything in its power to ensure that the Eulexa mission does not come in an illegal manner, that it does not come with Belgrade's opposition and not in such a way as to carry out the Ahtisaari mission. Instead, at this point we have a paradoxical situation: we have opposition to the opposition to EULEX and we have opposition and demonstrations of Albanians in Kosovo. At the moment, Albin Kurti, who organises demonstrations in Pristina, is using the same arguments as the opposition in Belgrade, saying that the Eulexa mission is a defeat of Kosovo's independence and current authorities in Kosovo because it has been deployed according to six counts required by Serbia. What are we doing right now? We ourselves are humiliating the diplomatic victory we have achieved, making life difficult for the Serbs in Kosovo, who together with Eulex should fight for their freedom and security; reducing Serbia's chances for their legitimate interests to vote. Finally, just to answer on behalf of my colleague Smiljana, that she would not report again: unlike you, who are asking the question and analysing the possibility of not being Members from Kosovo tomorrow, we from the Democratic Party have no doubt, such a policy and we lead, that Smiljana will also be a Kosovo MP in the next term, which is part of this territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9804	I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. I am informing the MPs that the meeting of the president of the parliamentary groups with the president of the National Assembly will be held at 2.30 p.m. in the first floor hall. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, reporting on the basis of Article 46. Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Article 226. The Rules of Procedure shall also be based on Article 99. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you remember, Mrs. Komic (young gentleman, the deputy secretary certainly remembers, as well as Mr. Odalović), seven days ago, after the topic launched by her colleague Marina Ragus, I asked the director of BIA, the certain Vukadinović – whom I never saw live, which would have been said, "face to face", because he never showed up on the Defence and Security Committee, which is his business obligation, or BIA and his personal under the BIA Act, which is Article 46. The Rules of Procedure - to report their work to the National Assembly, i.e. to the Committee of Resolution. Tonight, not only in the opinion of us Serbian radicals and colleagues from the DSS and NS, but also of all troubled citizens from Kosovo and Metohija (we all receive calls and messages from our radicals and members of their families), there was a complete occupation of Kosovo and Metohija in the right sense because of the illegal, without the decision of the Republic Assembly, the deployment of so-called. Mission Eulex. Article 99. The constitution, since Mr. Micunovic spoke of the Assembly doing its job, making laws, not talking about Kosovo and Metohija, defined what was, among other things, the work of the National Assembly, which is to ratify international agreements and agreements. I must remind you that in 1999, here in the National Assembly, only with opposition from the Serbian Radical Party, the ratified Chernomidin - Ahtisaari agreement from which KFOR came to Kosovo and Metohija and UN Security Council Resolution 1244, which is our foundation, our state of Serbia, to defend our international right and the status of our southern province within our country. However, now, given the illegal deployment of the so-called mission. Eulex, I call again on the Director of BIA to appear as soon as possible, it is his business and legal obligation, in front of the Committee on Defence and Security, to inform Mr Dragan Todorovic, through the Secretary of the Committee, when he will be able to come and report to us on the fact that, before us, the terrorist activities of Hashim Thaci, Haradinaj and others, as they have been designated, the villains who led the criminal groups discussed the German Committee for the Monitoring of the Work of their Intelligence Services, where it was unequivocally established (this is what she said on several occasions, here I am finishing, colleague Ragush, and I last week) that their agents had established more in the 2005 report, and now based on the fact that they were subjected to an explosive device... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... at the EU headquarters in Pristina, that there are dangerous villains, terrorists. When the state that financed the most their secession from Serbia and the financing and most participates in KFOR forces, what our country is doing and how we can send a message when the Germans say they are not safe for themselves, that any Serb in Kosovo and Metohija is safe at the moment... (President: Four minutes. I'm done. I demand, therefore, that I be provided with an answer in writing as soon as possible when the director of the BIA will arrive. Mr. Todorovic, as chairman of the Committee, will make an appointment immediately, but we need that report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9807	There's no damage to article 46. The President of the Security Committee, as well as any other committee, has the authority to schedule a session and to invite everyone who appears before the Committee, from the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister to those who manage the bodies and organisations. If anyone refuses, it informs them; if this is the situation, then I consider myself informed that the authority was invited, Sasa Vukadinovic, and that he did not want to attend the Committee's session. I'll inform the president of the National Assembly. All those who represent the authorities and organisations selected in the National Assembly or who, according to the regulations of our Rules of Procedure, have an obligation to appear before committees, must do so. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Can I explain? ) National MP Dragan Todorovic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9808	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the Committee on Defence and Security has been mentioned, it is obvious that the current BIA director has no intention of working with the Defence and Security Committee and with the MPs. It's obvious that he's doing his party assignment there, not what he's supposed to do under the law. I think it's been almost six months since I asked questions, one question to the MUP, another question to the Supreme Court and the third question to the BIA, related to three actions carried out by the then State Security in 2001, and these are the actions "The Sword", "The Cactus" and "The Shumadian". 46 people were tapped – about 20 members of the then State Security Service were assigned for these tasks – by the president of the former SRJ state and by various politicians and members of the DOS then, as well as some other people. From the Supreme Court I was informed that they had never granted approval that these persons were being tapped, as I received a notice from the MUP, given that the BIA was established, that it was no longer in the MUP's competences, that they no longer had any jurisdiction. But BIA doesn't come up with any answers. I know for a fact that those three actions were. I have talked here several times about the possibility that, if some information is obtained, MPs of the Serbian Parliament and the judiciary might also be given answers regarding some of the murders and events that took place in the SRJ. What is particularly important at this point, which I suppose should be important to the MPs, and I thought the Democratic Party would be particularly interested in the answer to that question, is that there could possibly be some data related to the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Now just, since I have a little time left to tell you... When you order some tracking, listening, etc. By law, as it goes, according to the rules of the Service, there, normally, the subordination goes from a commanding officer who orders certain actions to be carried out. The collected information is provided and used by someone. We asked for an answer, if yes, who ordered and who used that information. It is interesting that absolutely no one from the Democratic Party shows interest in getting that data. I'm sorry, to get this over with, it wasn't my intention to talk about this, but to round up the whole subject. Among other things, we called Sasa Vukadinovic when it was scheduled for the Committee, related to the facts and circumstances of the kidnapping and arrest of Radovan Karadzic, because we had reliable information that Radovan Karadzic was arrested as it was carried out, on his way to Batajnica, that he had been held for 72 hours, past the law, was not allowed to invite his lawyer, informing his family and, what is particularly interesting, took his things; you know that his laptop was returned after 20 days, etc. and all the lies that followed that event. Instead of the BIA director showing up, he was simply deaf about it, but they came with a pre-conceived conclusion from the Defence and Security Committee. According to that conclusion, everything was in accordance with the law, without any problems. They simply brutally, as they do here in the Assembly, have interrupted any opportunity for the Committee to perform the function it has under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, by the Constitution and by your European values, would have, which is to make sure that security services are not abused by the authorities. It is a basic function that the Defence and Security Committee should have; it means, a control function – that it controls the authority not to abuse security services, as well as the Ministry of Interior, as well as the military, among other things, as well as everyone, but especially these services and these two ministries because they are the ministries of force, because they come up with classified information and they use them for political purposes. Among other things, you're the ones who initiated the files of the State Security Service, etc., but you're acting the same way some of you have criticized. Your goal was just to get to power, otherwise, to change something and change you have absolutely no intention whatsoever. You aim only at power and power is used boundlessly, in the same way that it has been done in the past. Thank you and forgive me for this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9809	Thank you for the clarification. All elected, appointed and appointed persons must appear before the Committee. They don't have the opportunity to have or have no intention of showing up to the Committee, since it implies... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: You don't believe me? Of course I do. That's why I say thank you for the information. So, the chosen, set and appointed faces cannot have any intention. They may either appear before the committee or for a justifiable reason, which the committee will respect, send an authorised person. The Committee may not respect, insisting that the elected or appointed person who wishes to listen to the committee appear. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: they have not answered my parliamentary question. ) The parliamentary question has not been asked in any part of the session, since only at the end of this session do we have parliamentary questions. There's an explanation required. We have already established that under Article 226, when an explanation is required, there is no deadline, unfortunately, in which the responsible person must deliver the answer. But in accordance with Article 27, I will meet the president and competent body manager Sasa Vukadinovic (or whoever the Committee calls) will have to appear before the Security Committee at the scheduled session, where he has an obligation to provide all the necessary information to the members of the Committee. This is the basic control function of the Assembly. That's why I thank you. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Articles 101 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today in the afternoon part of the session, which began last night, MPs of opposition parties, above all we Serbian radicals, are trying to impose the issue of problems in Kosovo and the Metohija caused by the deployment of the Eulex mission and we are trying to call, or to determine the responsibility of those directly responsible for the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija. Members of the ruling coalition woke up and began to report for the word, to explain some things to us in the Rules of Procedure, and there were really interesting findings. One of the questions to which we expect the answer is – how do MPs of the ruling coalition know some things about the government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic without the opposition's MPs knowing it? Since June, why haven't we been able to discuss here a motion for a resolution of 108 MPs? Obviously, something was happening in the meantime, especially Mr. Micunovic here was so full of information. What is particularly interesting in his and Mrs Trivan's presentation is something that has reminded a lot of the views of some political parties who openly advocate independent Kosovo and the views of some NGOs, which are issues of Kosovo and Metohija's status as one reality, as they say here. Well, as far as our concerns are concerned about how to help these people out there, roughly, it doesn't matter whether they are in occupied territory of Serbia or not, we now have some other problems. Then there was the question of what we were offering as an alternative. What is most interesting, when it comes to the Chernomidin – Ahtisaari agreement, the remarks were sent to some parliamentary groups that are now with the DS in the government of the Republic of Serbia and are here with them by the assembly majority. Then it is really interesting why when these questions are asked, when on the other side, those who have supported the fact that now Mr. Micunovic and others from the Democratic Party are trying to put on the soul of someone else, of course, because of the fact that they would cover up what the Constitution violates by Boris Tadic by the government of the Republic of Serbia... (President: Speak for three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry, I'm finishing up... and the fact that someone has given himself more rights than the Constitution allows him and, beyond the authority of this parliament, signed the occupation, accepted the occupation of the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9811	There is no violation of Article 104 in the presentations of the Members of Parliament you mentioned. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9812	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, within the meaning of Article 226. I am asking the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a question, i.e. an explanation and notification from the President of the Republic, whether the administrative border with the AP Kosovo and Metohija is winding up the Serbian flag today. That's number one. I ask for notice whether there are any customs officers on the administrative border, any police officers of Serbian nationality, or a member of the Serbian security forces. I ask President Tadic to go to Prizren, where the Serbian capital was, and whether he will go to the headquarters of the Serbian Patriarchy Pec and bring with him the exiled Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, who have been exiled by the Cypriots and "compatriots", thus proving that Kosovo and Metohija are the cradle of Serbian statehood and culture, which is witnessed by the fact that there is the greatest density of Serbian medieval monasteries and other cultural monuments, all confirmed by the London Agreement of 1912. In view of this fact, we think we should go to Kosovo first, not the European Union. Serbia is crossing Kosovo from the European Union. And those who want to join the European Union are merely declaring themselves to go to the EU, but unfortunately, the European Union will not. The Serbian government can no longer be indifferent to the state it is in Kosovo and Metohija. She can't be indifferent, considering then that KIM is occupied by the enemy. Who guarantees Serbia, asking Mr Boris Tadic for an answer, that Kosovo is under the state sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and its security authorities? I ask the President of the Republic if he will come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to answer a number of questions that are vital to the state of Serbia and its citizens. Let him stretch his legs a little too; if he cannot go to Kosovo, he can at least cross the pedestrian crossing between the presidency building, where he rules, and the National Assembly. Does the President of the Republic, Mr. Boris Tadic, know that about 80,000 members of the Albanian national minority live in Belgrade, that they live here normally and are provided with security and security? Will Mr. Tadic and his government succeed in bringing Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija and providing them with safe and safe life in that territory, as the Serbian cradle of all possible cultural and historical monuments that I have previously listed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9813	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9814	Mrs. Comic, given that you are now holding the presidency, I intend to call on members 27th and 104th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but before any involvement in the explanation of what I intend to say, I would ask you to tell me, you do not have to answer me, may I quote some provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because of this provision of the Constitution that I intend to quote depends on the course of my interpretation. I realized I could quote. Thank you very much. I must commend you, unlike the president of the National Assembly, she gave me two warnings because I quoted the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I ask that in the day of the vote it be concluded that Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic was harshly violated by the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. By the way, I'm so glad you realized that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is sacred to all those who work. Let's get in line. Article 114, paragraph 4, is the text of an oath by the President of the Republic of Serbia in the National Assembly to 250 MPs, and it is a presummation that he took it before seven and a half million citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to understand what he has sworn. The text of the oath reads: "I swear to all my strengths to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of it, as well as the achievement of human and minority rights and freedoms, respect and defence of the Constitution and law, the preservation of peace and prosperity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that I will carry out my duties in a safe and responsible manner." I'm distracting you, this oath is a constitutional norm. If anyone breaks constitutional norm, he's suffering some kind of sanctions. A sanction that goes to disobey this provision of Article 114(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is to be resolved by the President of the Republic of duty, as the constitution has been previously violated. In order to avoid confusion, I do not want to read the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but I will read to you something relating to autonomous provinces, that is Article 182 paragraph 2, to be clear, not to be invented here, etc. "The Republic of Serbia has AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija. The essential autonomy of AP Kosovo and Metohija will be governed by a special law adopted under the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution." Please, in the conditions of the difficult, trench diplomatic struggle led by the government led by Boris Tadic, was the law on essential autonomy in Kosovo and Metohija a priority or a zero? No, the zero point was a set of judicial laws that would start to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9815	Three minutes and thirty seconds. You quoted the provisions of the Constitution. I have no jurisdiction to explain or assess whether or not any provision of the Constitution has been violated. The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. In the end, Mrs. Comic, I'm going to ask for an explanation about what I'm going to tell you about. Of course, it's Eulex and what we're talking about today. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I will remind you of an agreement from 18 July 2005, when your ruling majority signed a NATO transit agreement through our country, where American soldiers enjoy full immunity. So they can step on it, beat it, rape it, and I use these harsh words because that's what happened in Italy and Macedonia. So that was phase one of the occupation of part of our territory. It's just a reminder. The next thing I remind you, I also remind you that international agreements (you say it is not yet an agreement, and we are going to the agreement, or you go to you) are being concluded by the state of Serbia, and only the Assembly, here Mr Ilic pointed out, perhaps you have not paid attention, I think and Mr Todorovic, authorized to ratify such agreements and to decide on the issues of defence of our country. Do you agree that our country, or part of its territory, has been compromised? Secondly, before the conclusion and acceptance of the agreement, the official position of the Serbian-Government Assembly and the Serbian government must be obtained. Do we have an official view of what we said about it? Those people went downstairs. We speak Serbian so we all understand each other. Someone in the afternoon debate says: We will enable you to do so. What's the point of the debate, those people went downstairs. Next, I recall, Resolution 1244 of 9 July 1999, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the only legal framework for the presence of international military forces on the territory then the SRJ, so the SCG, so Serbia, that is, on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of our country. According to point 12 of the resolution, Serbia is obliged to ensure a smooth approach to Kosovo and the Metohija to humanitarian organisations to help. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, is Eulex a humanitarian organization? That's the first question. Next, on the basis of all this, Mrs. Comic, I ask the Serbian government to explain... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... Is the acceptance of Eulex by the president of Serbia and the Serbian government the first step in recognising Kosovo and Metohija's independence by our country? I think so. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9817	The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9818	Dear Mrs. Comic, dear fellow Members of the People, I advertise Article 103. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly – the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. In an explanation of why I am advertising this, I can tell you that for days, weeks, even months, we have been present at the flagrant abuse of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, where everything is discussed, except for topics that are on the agenda. Indeed, it's as if we're attending a play of the theater of absurdity and we all have to suffer from collective amnesia and forget how we came as a nation at all, as a nation, as a nation, as citizens in this situation we're in right now. Politicians must always see a step further and further from their contemporaries. Unfortunately, it hasn't been a situation in our country in the past 20 years. They have to deal with political principles. Passion is a bad ally in politics, unless it's a passion for the common good, responsibility and understanding that we need, these political principles, all of us, to lead, to the well-being of our country and people. If we had understood the fall of the Berlin Wall and the monopoly world that occurred at the time, the messages of James Baker from the United States that back then supported the united Yugoslavia, the visit of Jacques Delor, who offered the then five billion ECs to the then-Yugoslavia to integrate into the then European community, we would not have talked about such difficult topics today and about fighting for the state and national sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. And some of them saw not only a step, but much more ahead, and they said, about this sentence, I'm going to paraphrase it: gentlemen, beware, sometimes something that represents itself as the greatest national interest turns into the greatest national betrayal. I'm not happy to realize that that man was right back then. Politics is a skill of opportunity, but it is also a skill to make possible what is needed for our own people and for our own country. I also address the national coalition, as well as the Serbian Radical Party, and I tell them - go amongst the people. When I start telling them about a dignified entry into Europe, they tell me only one sentence – an empty bag does not stand upright. When I tell them about how we can't be a black hole in the region and in Europe, which is the only one who won't integrate into the European Union, they say -- I know, son, you can't go against the village. Listen also to this people, when you are called peoples, when you are called the People's Party and, believe me, you will not be wrong. "What else needs to happen so we can figure out what happened to us? "That is what Brana Petrovic said, and I am asking myself and you this question today. The UN Security Council decision, a presidential statement supported by both Russia and China, etc. – EULEX is status neutral and in accordance with Resolution 1244. Judges, prosecutors, customs officers, cops don't chase our officers and customs officers. Since 11 June 1999, we have neither our tax collector, nor our police officer, nor our soldiers, nor our customs officers, gentlemen. Since 11 June 1999. Do not deceive this people that we have now lost Kosovo and Metohija and that by entering Eulex we will lose it further. I'm taking the right to call back, since I haven't been able to make a full argument. As responsible people, who want to work on the well-being of their people and state, we should act in this Parliament and anywhere we are, because we have responsibility for every public word and for our work in this Parliament and among the people we move between.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9819	There is no breach of Article 103, but there is no full application of Article 103. People's MPs who want to use their right to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that right is impeccable. What makes a problem during the session is the way it is used and thus serves the respect of the Rules of Procedure on other grounds. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 104. Now that we want to talk as people and talk about facts, let's remind ourselves of some things. We remember all January 2007 and pre-election campaigns, the arrival of Boris Tadic from America and his address in Knez Mihail Street to Serbian citizens at a pre-election event. He then said, "Let's be realistic, Kosovo is independent and that's the reality." That's quite true, you can now argue, for you nothing is true, but it's an undeniable fact, they recorded all the TVs. Let me give you a second fact, maybe this isn't true either. The landing at Skopje's airport and meeting with Agim Ceku, he says "was a fog," and you know who's in the fog of happiness. But there's one thing -- if they landed, by circumstances, at the same airport, how is it possible that Boris Tadic said, "I said hello to a soldier, I'm a politician"? He said hello to a war criminal who committed war crimes first in Croatia, and then also in Kosovo and Metohija! It's undeniable stuff. Why do you represent this attitude? Well, that's perfectly normal. The current Minister for Kosovo and Metohija in the Serbian government was also Minister of the Government of Independent Kosovo, Mr Novakovic, pardon, Bogdanovic, we were saying that when you elected ministers... You think it's funny that I made a mistake. It doesn't mean anything to you at all. I am absolutely sure there will be no change for you regarding Kosovo and Metohija. You will cooperate with Thaci, Agim Ceku and the government of Kosovo and Metohija, as you are asked by the same boss, as he asks them to. You act and act solely on orders from the EU and the United States. Between you and those who represent the new state of Kosovo and Metohija, there is no difference. You criticize the previous government, and I ask you a question - who are you now in the coalition with? Why didn't you at least keep that from 1990? At least then the United Nations entered and until yesterday they were the United Nations, and now it's Eulex. I'm asking you a question - on what law does Eulex work? What you are saying will be statusally neutral is the deception of the Serbian public, all officials in both the EU and the world claim that Eulex will work on the Martti Ahtisaari plan and under the law of the state of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9821	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a question on the basis of members 225 and 226. First of all, the question for the Serbian Parliament – why is it that at least today the request of 108 MPs to find a debate on the schedule of EULEX in Kosovo and Metohija and the new resolution on Kosovo and Metohija? In fact, we are discussing these days some laws, a set of judicial laws for which from all discussions, and opposition and positions, see that not many good things will bring to the judiciary or citizens of Serbia, but we are ignoring something that is happening, which threatens us to be in front of us and to come to everyone's door. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been given many questions these days since the veterans of the wars, starting in the 1990s, especially since 1981, since the first Shipatarian agents made a demonstration, displaced Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, who say this is a humiliation to them, a humiliation to the citizens of Serbia. I am one of those who responded to every call by the Serbian state and the defence of the Serbian people, and I cannot believe that the majority sitting on the left can ignore what is happening today in the territory of the Serbian state. I cannot believe that anything is more important than the Eulex schedule in Kosovo and Metohija, than supporting Serbs who have remained to live in Kosovo and Metohija. We have had various lectures here, including from those of this "yellow company", who call themselves ideologists or creators of democracy, as it is a final act, as someone is guilty, as someone else did, and they were neutral or called on NATO forces to bomb Serbia for another week, so that NATO troops would enter Kosovo and Metohija. We all remember that well. You can't take off responsibility from those who did. I want to remind the public and citizens of Serbia that the Kumanski Agreement, which was signed at the time, the Serbian Radical Party condemned and that we were against it. We know well who voted, which assembly majority, such agreement, but there, and there we had Resolution 1244 that gave us certain rights, that the state of Serbia had powers in Kosovo and Metohija, that it had the right to return a number of soldiers and civilians. It was not respected, and you who swear on democracy and that Kosovo and Metohija will be preserved by democratic means... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... Today you need to answer to the public and citizens – what are these democratic means for you to protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? I want to tell you openly that this is the final act of the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija and from today we have a new border, i.e. the border that EULEX marks in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9823	The MP, assuming that you are essentially aware of the reasons why no other topic is being discussed, is under way the Third Session, which began on 5 November, and the debate is under way in the details of the 6th agenda and there is no possibility, without political agreement, to change the situation. Mr. Vitomir Plužarević, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Gentlemen, I just wanted to say that I see that 10 or 12 other MPs have applied further to the Rules of Procedure. I would really like to ask you, because of the importance of the agenda of the session that is under way, and also because of the importance of the issues that you raise through the form of violations of the Rules of Procedure, that we begin to work at last. We didn't practically start working on the agenda tonight, either. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Which night do you think? ) On the previous nights you advertised the Rules of Procedure this morning, and even last night from 22 hours it was as well as I was informed, and I was well informed. I really ask that when Mr. Plužarević is finished, we move to work on the agenda. Anything else, the importance of all the issues that you are talking about here today and the importance of the existing agenda, the existing sessions are such that we enter into a phase of degradation of that importance with this atmosphere. Please, let's work on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Sluzzard.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9825	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Eulexa mission has arrived and deployed in Kosovo and Metohija just today at St. Alimpi; always these friends of yours send us a message just for our holiday, something that pushes us away and something that makes us evil. The occupation was carried out in a perfiduous manner, with our blessing, yours and politicians, such as the president of the state, such as the President of the Assembly, because the resolution on Kosovo did not receive a public debate here in this home, which you have skillfully avoided, in your own way. None of you are going anywhere today. This young lady from Kosovo and Metohija came forward, it's okay, because that Eulex isn't what you declared. You said it would be world-renowned. Do you need a bigger world miracle than those Americans that bomb us first, kill us, and then democratically repent? You know that on Vidovdan you delivered Mr Milosevic. Then you acted exactly as you did today when Eulex is doing this dirtiest job for Marty Ahtisaari, for Thaci, for Solana. You know that on 17 July 2008, you arrested Radovan Karadzic. They're using our candles to make our wounds hurt even more. It is easy for Mr. Micunovic to go out and force the Assembly into his imaginary path. We know that way. I don't want to talk about patriotism to compare him to that word. You know who Mr. Micunovic is, who he works for and what he does. You betrayed Kosovo and Metohija in a European way. They want Kosovo to secede from Serbia, and you only support it and do everything to complete the launched mission. EULEX has resolved UNMIK, now the Serbian people have been left there for mercy, who? Our people in Kosovo and Metohija are confused right now. At the crossings, there are no more UN flags, no marks, and these politicians from Belgrade, what binds them to Kosovo? Nothing at all. You comment that EULEX has recognised Russia, Europe, too, all agree, even the opposition has been silenced. What we do, people from Kosovo and Metohija say. You are today discussing a set of irrelevant, unacceptable laws. Think of those young and old. Remember all the honest and honest people who live there in the ghettos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-09-0.u9826	Gentlemen, the content of your statement is absolutely adapted to the session we are planning, which is a session of the Government's trust. If you plan to keep talking about topics that are really topics for the session when the members of the government and the Prime Minister are here, and that's an opportunity to ask them these questions, then I'm going to stop working today and we're going to continue working tomorrow. Once again, I invite you to work on the agenda, or amendments. Mr. Todorovic, you've had your chance and spoken from this morning until now. You've had the opportunity to work with the heads of the parliamentary groups, which you refused, to agree on further work. So I don't have any other option but to ask you to make the morning smarter than the evening and to work on these amendments tomorrow. Thank you. Tomorrow, 10:00 p.m. I think both citizens and you, gentlemen MPs, are clear reasons why I have to interrupt this kind of work.
