ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11209	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, respected citizens, I want to use and send one message to all of us and to the citizens of Serbia in this way. I wish to congratulate the faithful who celebrate the greatest and most joyous Christian holiday Christmas, the birth of Jesus Christ, December 25, on the Gregorian calendar and all those who celebrate the 7th of January on the Julian calendar, a happy holiday and want to spend the coming holidays in peace, love, happiness and harmony, prosperity, in the circle of their family, with their loved ones. Peace be to God, Christ is born. I'd also like to give the same card in my native Russian:
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11210	She would ask Mr. Pavel Marchok to speak in his native language.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11211	Dear Messengers, allow me, in my name and in your name, to celebrate today a great Christian holiday, to speak to them in my mother tongue, and to wish them this feast: to wish upon me a merry vianoce, stastia, healthy, lásky a narodinného rest, to wish you to vianociam, to your own personal me, and to me to the shrivelled Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11212	Mr. Tamash Tot wanted to speak too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11213	Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, all of you who celebrate Christmas these days wish for happy holidays. Tisztelt képviselök, hölgyem ésuraim, szerbia pogárai, mindenkinek, akik December 24th ünneplik a Karácsonyt, boldog, békés karácsonyi ünnepeet kívánok.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11214	Mr. Jon Magda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11215	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to address my fellow Romanians, who are also Orthodox religions, but serve on Gregorian, on a new calendar. Allow me to speak in my native Romanian: stimati conatóonaló, dear Român, credíncioçi orthodokói, permitima sâ vâ addressžu saârbâtorólor de jaarnâ multâ sanate, properitate ói mult noroc án átâ, noul an â aducâ fericire, âi realizirea tuturor dorintelor – sârbâtoarea crâciunului, naóterea dimnului Jesus chrästos saâ â aducá o länte sufleteascá, pace housei voèe bunâ... chróstos s-a nâscut – adevârat s-a nâskut.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11216	Petar Kuntic, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11217	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable President, Madam Minister, today is a great day for us believers celebrating Christmas on the Gregorian calendar. Today is Christmas Eve, tonight is Christmas Eve and tonight when we are with our loved ones, with our loved ones, with our friends, waiting for the birth of Jesus Christ, certainly that birth should give us certain guidance. We should stop a little bit, turn around, look at maybe those who don't have enough, and the most important thing we need right now is to forgive. With that thought and in that sense all the believers who welcome Christmas on the Gregorian calendar wish a happy Christmas and a happy Christmas with an old greeting - Blessed and Merry Christmas. Also, to our brothers by Christ, who welcome Christmas in 14 days, now on this solemn day I congratulate Christmas from the heart with an old greeting - Christ was born - the truth was born.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11218	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 122 MPs attend the sittings. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for today's session to be attended by Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice, is with us also Minister of Justice. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act (principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government, you have received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs, and that is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 34 seconds; the G17 - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group -- Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Salad group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and 24 seconds and the parliamentary group PUPS - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Rule 27, but before I start talking about the Rules of Procedure, I'd like to join the congratulations of the citizens of Serbia who celebrate Christmas on the Gregorian calendar. Happy Christmas and Christmas to them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you had a chance to hear the day before yesterday, I went out for a pay phone and warned the president of the assembly that the English ambassador had in an incredible way violated all the rules of his service and began to criticise and that he was assessing political parties in Serbia. However, it seems that it only further encouraged English Ambassador Stephen Wardsworth not only to continue the same work, but to assess even more inappropriately the release of SRS MPs for the assembly speaker. Something that is simply inappropriate for anyone in this country to comment in any way. Mr. Wardsworth continued to refrain from speaking of the SRS in this way. He says the SRS is a thing of the past, a party to negative nationalism, etc., which really requires a serious demarch. We think, as far as the English ambassador is concerned, he has nothing to look for in Serbia anymore. The foreign ministry should really declare Ambassador Wardsworth a persona non grata. It's amazing that this is happening to us. He claims that the SRS is history, but apparently Mr. Stephen Wardsworth lives at that colonial time, when England all over the globe had colonies and they could behave like that. He may have reasons, for some relations he has with some political parties in Serbia, to behave like this, but when it comes to the SRS, we will not allow it. Among other things, in a blog opened by Mr. Stephen, it is very interesting to read, one of these articles says: “I sit exhausted in front of my computer. The reason is not because I was doing it, but because I was practicing Scottish folk dance." Obviously, it's hard for Mr. Stephen, so let's move on to something easier, let's say some ballet numbers, he might not be so exhausted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11220	A complete stenogram of your objections and the position of the heads of parliament, along with mine, was forwarded yesterday to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The word is Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11221	Article 104. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I would also have to, in accordance with my predecessors, to all those who celebrate on the Gregorian calendar, to congratulate Christmas, to wish all my happiness, but I would also have to quote to my colleague Kuntic of the DS, who spoke of forgiveness. We should ask God and the citizens to forgive you for what you agreed to do, to sell NIS in this way. You can laugh and yawn as much as you want, the citizens will yawn. You sold 51%, and now I'm going to read you how. Investment commitment – no investment in NIS, 500m euros by 2012. "Gasprom" credits NIS at 20% interest per year. You know how the contract ends? Only if "Gaspromneft" does not provide credit. It's the story of guarantees that the contract will be terminated unless the obligation is fulfilled. You should all be ashamed. I am ashamed that this is how I sell Serbian property. What is the program of reconstruction and modernisation of NIS? The only objective set out in the contract is to ensure the production of motor fuel that is in line with 'euro 5'. There are no targets or deadlines for achieving ecological standards. Now, look at this, no guarantees are provided for the failure of this defined reconstruction and modernisation program of NIS. No stock on shares, no contract termination, no contract penalties, no bank guarantees, no corporate guarantee. Practically, it means there are no consequences for "Gaspromneft". We've been trying for months just to bring you to your senses, first of all President Tadic. What did he say two or three weeks ago? Without legal and economic guarantees, we're not selling NIS. We only have political guarantees. All those who congratulate Christmas and tomorrow, and in two weeks, should also say to those who congratulate "Welcome to 46, welcome to 47." You are talking about Europe. Everything that includes the agreement and these contracts with Gazprom is all the opposite of European integration. I guarantee you the citizens will know that they appreciate it in the next election. Here we have seen a demonstration of the membership of national minorities to one political party, but with this contract in action, selling Serbia's national interests for the Tepsia of Fish, you should all be ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11222	According to the Rules of Procedure, first Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11223	I'm reporting for an officer. 27 and 131. Rules of Procedure. I'd like to draw your attention that we, in fact, now have a sale of national wealth for half the price, one at a time. Two, we have political guarantees for two capital investments. If it's political guarantee, then why isn't there a regular business legal guarantee? Under three, a great deal falls on this authority and on this assembly, which allowed this agreement to be ratified, which allows the Constitutional Court not to resolve an initiative on the constitutionality of this agreement. A great deal falls on this authority and on this existing coalition that allowed such a thing, such as NIS, to be sold to a foreign state company, to Serbia, for the economy of Serbia. We've heard that investment is forecasted, we've heard that these investments can only be made on the basis of credit. So, you know very well, if you've ever concluded any credit agreements, that's where a certain guarantee is sought. I suppose Gazprom will also have to give a certain guarantee. The guarantee will certainly not be enough for banks only in terms of political guarantees. Therefore, the political guarantee is one story, and the real valid guarantee is something else entirely. Who can truly guarantee that in the end a contract will be realized in this material sense, not just in some virtual and verbal sense. A great deal will fall on those who will accept that Vojvodina will settle down in this way, that 90% of this purchase price instead of decommissioning from the budget should be directed into the Vojvodina budget. Why? Because it literally accepts the situation that was created and the Dukes simply disagree and become accomplices to the sale of NIS, and we know what that sale is. So when all this is added together, I ask you a question: why was the problem with waiting for the final decision of the Constitutional Court? If we have a Constitutional Court that is obliged to decide whether they are acts, whether some contracts are in accordance with the Constitution, then that Constitutional Court should also work. Otherwise, why this Constitutional Court? If we don't need a Constitutional Court, what do we need a parliament to do if it ratifys such agreements, if it directly harms the economy of this country, and we are doing this budget and we have 500 amendments to this budget. So you think about it, on the one hand, we do that kind of damage, we sell, we give up the oil rent, and on the other hand we make a restrictive budget and we complain that we don't have the money. Therefore, great lewdness, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11224	The Rules of Procedure were advertised by Mr. Sasa Dujovic, a folk MP, and then Mr. Tomic, Ostojic, Vjerica Radeta, Slobodan Maras, it is a order of the reported, Mr. Dragan Stevanovic afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11225	Dear Presidency, Honorable Presidents, Honorable members of the Government, Honored fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 226, and I'm looking for certain notifications. As of seven o'clock this morning in my office, I received war veterans from a dozen southern Serbian cities who are coming before the Serbian government today to seek their rights. I want this opportunity, first of all, for the sake of the MPs, but also for the sake of the public, to inform that there are more than 400,000 veterans in Serbia who expect equal treatment with them and their families, as well as war veterans who have charged social aid, 10,000 of them in seven municipalities in southern Serbia. It's clear to me...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11226	People's MPs, you're distracting the speaker. Please, and if you're communicating with each other, you're making it quieter, you're distracting the speaker, and he's in no position to finish what he was planning to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11227	I understand that this pay phone is hard to talk about war veterans, war, something that's been going on in the premises of the former SFRY. I understand that, but you, my dear colleagues and colleagues, must know that 400,000 families in this Serbia exist who are directly involved and who have contributed most to that bloody beer that was no longer there. We care less about the war, believe me, so we're asking that problems be solved as elegant and as appropriate as possible. I'll keep going. Individuals who led earlier protests and during the previous government received social assistance in seven southern Serbian municipalities today are trying in a magical way to defuse the current government's efforts to adequately try to solve problems. The attitude of Serbia's veterans working at the SPS-JS parliamentary club is that veterans' problems cannot be resolved selectively, as the previous government did, but that war veterans across Serbia are from the north, from Saturday to Presevo, absolutely the same. At a time when NATO aggression was, it was at war in all territories. I expect Prime Minister Cvetkovic or a representative of the Serbian government today to accept a delegation and finally comply with what their task is, which is to solve the problem of Serbian citizens, to start solving this vital problem for war veterans, so that we do not come into a situation where certain politicians and malvers are doing what happened the other day in Kursumlia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11228	Thank you. Mr. Tomic, according to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11229	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, dear fellow Members of the People, first of all, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate today's Christmas Day and tomorrow Christmas on the Gregorian calendar, and we wish them all a lot of joy, happiness and joy today on Christmas Day and tomorrow on Christmas Day. I'm reporting under Article 226, where the MP, as he says, has the right to request information and explanations from both competent officials. Today's "Politics" on the front page brings the interview of the Chief of Staff of the General Staff Mr. Zdravko Ponoš, and the title of the interview is: "The country's defence policy does not exist". I ask you to let me know if there has ever been a corporal, a corporal, a junior sergeant, said something like this to the public, let alone the Chief of Staff of a state, whether it happened anywhere in Europe or in the world. I urge and appeal to Mr. Sutanovac's defence minister to give us an explanation for this, not to us, but to the entire state, I expect him to respond adequately. I apologize for being a little harsher, but if I were the Secretary of Defense, at seven o'clock this appeared in the paper, at eight o'clock the Chief of Staff would have to be removed. This is a very difficult and dangerous statement. Perhaps Mr. Posh is all he said in the paper is right, it may all be true, but in this way it must not be presented to the citizens of Serbia. This is for the strongest conviction, and I expect the competent ministry and the minister to give us an explanation and to respond adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11230	The finding, in fact, will be forwarded to the Ministry of Defense. Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11231	President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, I hope that this issue will be forwarded. I'm reporting for an officer. 225 and 226. For more than two months, I have not been asked whether there are any natural persons, citizens of Serbia, in the firm "Yugorosgas". Since this shameful agreement is being signed today, I have to congratulate the faithful who are celebrating today, i.e. They're celebrating Christmas tomorrow because the government congratulated them in a really inappropriate way. So I really have a question for you, I'll have a few more for the government: why didn't Mrs. Dejanovic call a session of the Legislative Committee to give that opinion requested by the Constitutional Court? The Constitutional Court, Mrs Dejanovic, has warned several times that it can prevent what is happening today in Moscow. I remind you all, no matter what you voted for ratification of the agreement, that at that time in the discussion in September, when we ratified the agreement with Russia, we were saying that it was a business and that we were selling NIS for 400m euros because Gazprom would build a pipeline. I remind you, the pipeline doesn't have a feasibility study. That's why I don't know what the rush is. In that agreement that you, let's say the Assembly ratified, there's not one date, there was no date or deadline until the end of this year to sign. Which is why President Tadic is in a hurry to sign the sale of NIS. Which is why the Constitutional Court's decision didn't wait. I can see that it is evident that this is not about economic business, it is evident that there is no "e" from the economy, that it is about politics. Indeed, I am asking the ruling majority and the government how they will align their efforts, which are weak, poor and unsuccessful, according to European integration with what is happening today in Moscow. Really, I can't understand why she waited for the Constitutional Court's decision. No one has the right to sign unconstitutional contracts or the president of the state. It was only supposed to wait 2 - 3 months, the Constitutional Court would make a decision, everything would be clear. If you give up your business, if you, the ruling majority, have decided to sell NIS without a guarantee for a pipeline, that's your business, history will judge it, and not some far away, but very close. Mrs. Dejanovic, I ask you why you didn't initiate, rush, if the president of the Legislative Committee didn't schedule the session, why didn't you schedule it, so at least let the Constitutional Court take the view that the agreement was a law, and the laws are being evaluated in the Constitutional Court. I do not understand the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which is why he asks whether the law is subject to the assessment of constitutionality. But if he was already buying time, the Constitutional Court, why did you help him buy that time and we have this shameful act in Moscow today, without at least saying that the deal with Gazprom, or the Russians, is a law that is subject to the assessment of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11232	The chairman of the Legislative Committee will immediately answer your question, Mr. Ostović. After that, Mr. Todorovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11233	Thank you, Madam President. And the provo speech of my colleague Ostojic, and it seems to me yesterday that fellow Members of Slobodan Maraš, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, must point to the following; therefore, neither the Serbian Parliament nor the Legislative Committee has reached any official document from the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. As soon as he gets here, I'm going to spotly schedule a session of the Legislative Committee. So, colleague Ostojić, the procedure must be respected - both legally and in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11234	That's also the answer you expected from me. The word is Mr. Todorovic, and then Mr. Aligrudic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11235	Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to warn the MPs and the public in Serbia about what is going on with the Chief of Staff and Minister Sutanovac. This is simply amazing that before the end of 2008, we have some things that look like the beginning of the break-up of the SFRY, when the military summit at the time wanted to carry out the coup and to suspend both the Constitution and all the laws, and to rule as a military junta. It's amazing that the Chief of Staff in this way completely derivates civil power, parliament and the Secretary of Defense, and you keep your mouth shut, as if the niche isn't happening. Who's behind this? Says - NGOs, NGOs backed by Chief of Staff Zdravko Ponoš. They are asking the defence ministry to extend the public debate on draft national security strategy and Serbia's defence strategy. You know who has been behind the NGO sector in Serbia for the past 20 years. Probably this ambassador who interferes with Serbia's political life, as many of these NGOs belong to his country's services, American services and services. It's obvious that this attack on the Secretary of Defense has a much deeper background, that someone is hiding behind it. And keep your mouth shut. The minister is from your ranks. How do you imagine democracy? How do you imagine civilian control? Explain your concept of democracy. How is it possible for the Chief of Staff to go out in the press to publicly attack the Secretary of Defense? Where are you Europeans? What's that? What would they do if someone did it out of political states? You keep your mouth shut. For 20 years, you've been struggling to establish civilian control over the security services, the MUP, the military. Is this your civilian control? How can you not be ashamed? You're gonna let the Shooter down the ice now. What does that look like? I'm not interested in the Shutanovac, to understand each other, or any other minister. I'm interested in the principle. (President: Time. What does this look like? I don't think we can get over this so easily, Madam President. You, as president of the assembly, must act urgently. We want information on what's behind this. We're not just gonna let the tanks on the terraces happen tomorrow. What's the next step? What you say won't, I don't believe you, because it's obvious that someone is behind this move. We want to know what's behind this. Who's allowed to go after the Secretary of Defense this way, or give the order to the Chief of Staff to go after the Secretary of Defense? You really can't get over this. Madam President, I expect you to do everything in your power right now and inform parliament of what lies behind this attack by Zdravko Poš at the Ministry of Defence and the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11236	As you know, Mr. Todorovic, the Prime Minister will be in a few minutes at the Assembly building. The heads of parliament will have on the other hand an appointment with him, but it will be an opportunity for us to talk to him on this subject too, to ask him a question. Here you go, Mr. Aligruditch. You have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11237	Regarding these statements by Mr. Stephen Wardsworth, the ambassador of the United Kingdom to the Republic of Serbia. It should not be surprising that a man interferes with party political life, an opportunity in parliament, to assess who is obstructing, who is not doing what the needs of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia are. How man will not judge and assess when a man was assembling the government of the Republic of Serbia. You see, there's supposed to be one competent institution with us to respond in these cases of diplomatic scandals. The institution should be decorated as foreign minister. We have the Wolf of Jeremic. Let's say that we now expect Mr. Jeremic to direct some demarcation or to react sharply, or to warn the ambassador of the United Kingdom of Stephen Wardsworth not to work, to take the political side in political conflicts in Serbia, to engage in cheap inter-party demagogy about who is obstructing or not obstructing parliament, because that is what they should know, all the nonsense they serve in political everyday life, in which an ambassador of such a respected country should not interfere. It is difficult to expect Mr. Vuk Jeremic to respond to Mr. Wardsworth's statements simply because Mr. Wardsworth chose the government. How are you going to react to the statements of someone who insults the dignity of the host state, if he chose you in government, you depend on him. If it wasn't for Mr. Stephen Wardsworth, Wolf Jeremic wouldn't be foreign minister now. It's as simple as beans and very simple. Mr. Stephen Wardsworth is his mentor. Of course, I cannot, as a People's MP, no matter how I know these essential facts, that this occasion, given that these days are going on and that no one is answering this key question, that I do not ask through you, Madam President of the National Assembly, the question to Mr. Foreign Minister, why is it not and does he intend to react to such acts as Mr. Stephen Wardsworth, because in fact, in this country, he, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, is the only one in charge that responds in a valid and formal legal manner? Here's a question from the foreign ministry and Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11238	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the assembly, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11239	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, over this scandal that took place and the request for the reaction of the state authority that was launched by the president of our parliamentary group Mr. Dragan Todorovic, as we did two days ago, and regarding these scandalous statements directly affecting the political system by the British ambassador, I must introduce you, although Mr. Aligrudic knows this as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that in that address before going to the office of Serbian Ambassador Dejan Popovic has been prepared, so prepared by the Foreign Ministry, he brought us some information about how Britain today sees Serbia, that they are watching our political life and this is just a step more in the statements of Wardsworth which must indeed be declared by our country person non grata. I must inform you that the British Intelligence Center M-6 is for Southeastern Europe in Zagreb. I am not surprised that some SRS apostates, since the two, Wardsworth and Manter, directly participated in the crackdown of the SRS, so that one individual is going to Zagreb all the time, not only to walk to the cafe to 'Esplanade' and eat the Bayaders, but probably to see those who train him and who work on the same mission as Wardsworth in Belgrade. However, Madam President, in this official information that we have received, I will tell you when, it was seduced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on October 5th of this year, and in addressing Dejan Popovic, it is well written here that the UK has a reservation for Serbia, that none of those villains who went ahead in the bombing and killing of Serbian children and civilians and the bombing of our country, Tony Blair, as well as his successor Brown, wanted from October 5th to today to Belgrade. On only one official visit was the foreign minister, and to pay attention, please, colleagues, the overall activity and political dialogue of Serbia and the UK takes place through parliaments. This is official information. Even these contacts are at foreign ministers level from opportunity to opportunity. What do they say? They say that we are a frustrated nation because we believe that Kosovo and Metohija are being kidnapped, that EULEX is completely regulated and that, not as you claim it the other day, Jeremic has status neutrality here, but that he is here on the task of completely replacing the UN forces and taking over the role and control of what they call the Republic of Kosovo. Therefore, if we have received as members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs information that the full dialogue takes place at the level of the parliaments, as a member of the Committee... (President Gordana Komic: Time. )......................................................................................................... Thank you, Mrs. Komic, since you are also a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and you know this information, I demand that we discuss this scandal on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in order to send a clear message that no one should interfere in such a way and directly with our country's political life and in the democratically expressed will of citizens who have entrusted 78 mandates of SRS-Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Thank you. I'm sorry I timed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11240	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11241	I would like first on behalf of the citizens celebrating Christmas on the Gregorian calendar to thank you all for congratulating us Christmas Day and Christmas. Unfortunately, this day is not happy for me personally because today this shameful NIS deal is being signed. First of all, I'd like to remind you and ask you if you know what income the NIS was in 2007. If you don't know, I'll draw your attention and I'll tell you that it was the 258 billion dinars, amounting to almost half of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. Therefore, it is not a small amount, a small income achieved by NIS two years ago. I don't know, I don't have any income data for 2008, but I guess that income must have been bigger. So, if you take into account that income again, I ask you why it is sold to a foreign state-owned control package of such a significant economic resource of this country. I'd like to remind you that there are 18,000 workers working at NIS. Did you take care of what would happen to these people? How will their existence be resolved? Do you know that we have two refineries, in Panchev and in Novi Sad, and there's already a lot of talk about these refineries being closed because they're invaluable, and there's a third in the Bosnian ship, so it's a great possibility that these refineries will soon stop working? Do you know anything about putting in a certain mortgage if a large loan is taken? If Gazprom takes a loan of 500 million dinars for the reconstruction of NIS, do you really believe that they will give a mortgage or guarantee on some of their assets in Russia? No, he'll probably pawn NIS property. What does that mean? This means that NIS will have to repay the loan itself that will allegedly be invested in its reconstruction. When all of this is considered, I'd like to draw your attention again to the fact that we can't do it for a couple of years, in a certain time to say, no, we didn't know that, no, we didn't have a clue. So we cannot call for security because security should now be activated to prevent this kind of legal work that is directly at the expense of the citizens of Serbia, property, and the natural and national treasures of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11242	The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we're talking about today is not only a violation of members of the 104th and dignity of the National Assembly, but also the gravest violation of Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I will not quote that member, but there are points one and two here, which speak of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. As a legislative body, as one of the branches of the government, the National Assembly, we are obliged to protect, to be bound by Article 97, sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia, its international position and relations with other countries and international organisations, and to ensure the achievement and protection of the freedom and rights of citizens, constitutionality and legality, court proceedings, etc. We have a serious problem here, and this is the interference of a foreign country official, in particular Wardsworth, who is currently an ambassador to Serbia in the political life of the Serbian state. We also talked about it at the time when this government was formed, and at the time when the coup was tried in the SRS and every time we mentioned it, you laughed, but here, as always when we Serbian did something talk and when you in the congregation's majority made it funny, in a relatively short time it turned out that we were right. I have to repeat what happened on Stephen Wardsworth's blog, which says most people now realize in Serbia that radically negative nationalism no longer exists in modern European democracies such as Serbia, and this gentleman behaves, although he comes from some modern democracy, as if from the time of Enver Hodge. Such a democracy wants to represent Serbia. We Serbian radicals won't let that happen. We expect this parliament, we expect the president of parliament, not only to tell us -- we will forward the questions to the authorities, we will wait for the answer, and in 10, 15 or 20 days we will get the answer. No, this is too serious and we will not be satisfied with this finding that someone will be sent our question and that we are waiting for an answer, we are requesting urgent intervention from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Foreign Ministry. This is how we warned you about Cobel in time, so you reacted to the smiles, and in the end you had to accept the fact that Cobel is not the place in Serbia, as Stephen Wardsworth did, but of course I will explain it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11244	The word has been made by MP Slobodan Maras, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11245	Article 104 for what Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic said. He should be ashamed of what he said here. A letter of the Constitutional Court is awaited, although I was informed three days ago, on Monday, by the Constitutional Court that he had sent it to the Serbian Assembly, and the Code of Criminal Procedure will have to be followed by the Constitutional Court by an emergency procedure, and this cannot be followed by an LDP initiative, and now I will tell you why. Because those who negotiated on behalf of Serbia, not only lie to Serbian citizens, lie not only to MPs, but also to the Russian side. Now I'm going to show you how. At a phone session, the job of a century can be negotiated, like yesterday's NIS sales contract, but cannot be reached in this assembly and explained the point at the point of the contract. Not only is Serbia damaged, but someone will have to answer for this. See guarantees and liability of the Republic of Serbia, members 5 and 6. Under the contract, debts in 2008 do not exist. Next, dividends. Serbia gave up dividends for 2008 on the basis of this contract. That means 50m euros. So, you didn't sell NIS for 400 million but 350, so in the province budget, what you broke the Privatisation Act, there would be another 10m euros missing from the sale of NIS. Respect for the law -- as Serbia has committed at point 5 and point 6: it is guaranteed that NIS respects the laws of the Republic of Serbia regarding environmental protection and assumes a responsibility of 100m euros for the damage caused by previous environmental events. This practically means that the Republic of Serbia acknowledges that there is currently no pollution in Panchev by NIS. Look at this, and what I'm saying, Mrs. Malovic, is what's going on. The contract states that there are no proceedings before a court which could affect the legality of this contract in relation to the seller or its ability to fulfil its obligations under this Treaty and no such procedure has been announced. That's in the contract, points 5, 2 and 9. It is in a contract that will be signed today by Boris Tadic. So you're also lying to the Russians, since the LDP submitted an application on September 16th for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of this agreement. Furthermore, what are the obligations of the Republic of Serbia in Article 8(3)? The Republic of Serbia has assumed the obligations that, beware, according to our laws, are illegal, it says -- that no sanctions against NIS are applied in respect of the non-compliance with the Environmental Protection Act, until the modernisation of equipment is carried out in accordance with the NIS reconstruction and modernisation programme. Next, what's illegal? Listen to this, Mrs. Malovic. "To ensure that all the claims and other requests over 10m euros by state authorities, including the Ministry of Interior and the "Serbiagas", against the NIS are finally and unconditionally withdrawn by applicants." So you're breaking the laws as it comes to your mind. You try to break the Constitution, try to break the laws... (President: It's three minutes and 30 seconds. ) Vice-President Jovanovic spoke for over four minutes, you did not warn her, and we are all, I hope, the same in this assembly. So you're breaking the laws as you think of it and you think no one can see it and no one will ever know that they appreciate it one day. (President: National MP, this is not about the parallel application of the Rules of Procedure, but about the application of the Rules of Procedure during which it is at the disposal of each MP to say what is the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Vice President, for explaining this to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11246	There's no breach of Article 104. The President of the Legislative Committee must not give false information as to whether or not the Constitutional Court's letter has arrived at the Assembly, and that is to be very easy to determine by comparing the time when he made that claim and whether a request to the Legislative Committee has arrived at the Office, because it is a procedure to be followed by the Constitutional Court, or not. I warn all MPs and ask them to take care of the expressions they use and address other MPs. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, I will certainly use my right to the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 226 and I will join this initiative, which my colleagues from the SRS have launched, which is to use your legal and any other authority and that as soon as possible, a notice from the competent state authorities, the foreign ministry, about a reaction that is or should follow the statement of the British Ambassador of Wardsworth, and everything about what is happening in this House, that is, about the SRS, above all, and then the DSS. This at least represents a diplomatic scandal and it seems to me that the state is more than obliged to react to it. If the state's reaction falls short, it is not the first time that Britain interferes with Serbia's internal opportunities, and it is not the first time that the government and the competent state authorities have a rather indignant view of the fact that someone interferes with the internal opportunities of a country, it will show first and foremost one great indifference, the irresponsibility of this state and one selective relationship with certain things that objectively in the perspective can pose a serious problem for internal opportunities in Serbia. As for the SRS, its ideologies and policies, its legitimacy will be decided exclusively by the SRS authorities and certainly by citizens in the elections they will be when they are. Someone who represents one country in this country certainly has no right to such a thing. If anything, we are not asking you to protect the SRS, your relationship with this problem will protect the interests of this country. If the reaction remains, it will confirm our suspicions that this is an orchestrated SRS hack, a national concept in this country, and that it includes both domestic and foreign factors. If you do not find the need to react for the sake of the SRS or the DSS, then may the motive for the reaction also be a statement which, when he responded to the SRS Wardsworth, is that Britain recognises Kosovo as an independent state, which so far has been done by 53 states. He expressed confidence, this is the most important, that the International Court of Justice will decide that it is not a violation of international law. He directly opposed an initiative that you, as a government in this country and the public, presented as a diplomatic triumph, unfortunately. I'm asking you one more time to answer the questions we asked you as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11248	The word is from MP Zoran Ostojic, who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11249	Vice-President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I received a reply, the Constitutional Court sent it, and it did not arrive in the Assembly. That's why I have new questions. Here, we want to respect the same procedure. How many times have I said here: we didn't vote for the Constitution, so now we defend this constitution against those who violate it; we didn't vote for ratification of the agreement, so now we remind you that it says there are three business matters, but only one contract is signed in Moscow today. Citizens must know that in this way they will sell NIS to the Russian state, essentially, that this means the vassality of Serbia -- the way it is sold and the conditions under which it is sold. Simply after that, NIS, which is a strategic firm, largely dependent on Serbia's budget, becomes an instrument of state policy owned by NIS. The state has interests, private companies have only interest in profit. The states have other interests. We think what's going to happen in Moscow today is a violation of even that agreement, which we said was bad. In September, we said that there was no guarantee in the agreement, which became law, there was no pipeline, that the agreement was essentially just an agreement that we would give to the Russians. It's not about breaking the law. The point is, what's next. What Serbia will experience when NIS belongs to the Russian state twice has been avoided in history. Dependence and impact on political opportunities in Serbia, overthrowing governments, installing their governments will be possible, as NIS is an instrument that can be done. In history, Serbia has twice avoided it. In 1914, she did not allow Austria to conduct an investigation into the Sarajevo assassination. In 1948, Serbia as part of Yugoslavia also avoided that fate, something similar was sought by Soviet leaders then. Now we're down. I'm asking, why was it in such a hurry, why did it happen? That's why I'm waiting for Mr Cvetkovic, but in the form of a parliamentary issue under Articles 225 and 226, I ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic - what was the rush when he was gone? Did they threaten us? What were they threatening us with? It was mentioned in the media that it's some kind of arbitration, which there's no basis for. Did they threaten us with the recognition of Kosovo? Did they threaten to bomb us? What's this about? Who? At least let Mr. Cvetkovic answer - well that's what Mr. Tadic's president has agreed, so at least we'll at least formally know who the prime minister is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11250	Three minutes and 30 seconds. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11251	Gentlemen of Parliament, I am pleased that some MPs are also beginning to gain great parliamentary experience. I don't know now, I could probably list all the members of the Rules of Procedure, but let's make it a member of 225 and 226. Of course, I will ask both in the third minute and the end of the third minute the question, of course, to the Prime Minister Cvetkovic. I'm sorry to call him otherwise, although it can be seen that he doesn't make any decisions in this country or participate in the way the Constitution foresees. It's mostly all going to be settled in this address across the street. Some, see, so many important things are solved by phone, and some don't get solved at all. I'm a little surprised by that, the way some MPs here talk -- as if they're amazed by the situation and what's going on. There's nothing, and I've said it many times for this pay phone -- this power is made the way it's done. The Democratic Party has nothing. She's a box, empty, just wrapped in nice paper, with a band-aid yellow and a knife how-- nothing else. So it's just advertising, advertising, advertising, deception, deception, lies, lies, lies, lies, but it'll catch up. It comes from day to day, and here it is -- a government made up of pensioners' delusions, and there's nothing they said about pensioners, and there's nothing there, but here some help them. Why are they being helped? Ato, a difficult situation? Well, with them, the difficult situation will be even harder. We had an example yesterday. The day before yesterday, the minister told us that a pact was made with the unions and a deal with the unions, a deal with the businessmen, and that everything was fine with the budget. When, the unions yesterday with the poles in front -- even the biggest union came ahead and said people -- so you signed, they don't keep their promises, they sign in November, when they already knew. We warned them in October of the global economic crisis, and they said they would tour. In November, they were already screaming -- as it arrived in Serbia, they signed an extended fact of the collective agreement and did not respect it. They're making bad bill proposals, like that minister's, so we had to have a miracle here in the assembly for a month. It's a disaster budget. Someone is surprised by what General Ponos said and is now waiting for Sutanovac's reception at Tadic's, and this one has gone to Moscow. If you were learning something from history, you'd learn Sutanovac if he were in Serbia, but you're always looking at the future, not in the past -- nothing new would be to stick a knife in the back or cut off the best man's head with an axe. What's new about that? Serbia has no defence policy. Of course not. That's what we've been saying for years. When was the Shutanovite in the Assembly to file a report last time? When was someone from some military security agency ever? While the police and the BIA, at least until recently, worked regularly and knew who, when he was a minister. So, the question for the Prime Minister, at the end of the day as always -- how much of another promise, I repeat, I'm probably bored with all of you, because two weeks I'm asking that question, and the answer didn't come in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or how many people in Serbia will be employed in 2009 from the 200,000 promised and will that answer arrive already?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11252	People's MP, I'm just reminding you that by calling for Articles 225 and 226, there is no such thing as a mandatory time limit for the delivery of notices. The People's MP, Verica Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11253	Mrs. Comićka, when spoken on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, it is true that there is no time limit to obtain an answer, but these are mainly or exclusively questions that require urgent answers. People's MPs speak of what they believe to be extremely important at the moment for either the MP group or, above all, for the citizens of Serbia, as SRS MPs do. We started the story of this British Ambassador Wardsworth because he allowed himself a few days ago -- to comment on how laws were passed in this House, how many laws were passed, how many did not. He then, he said, was disturbed by the tactics of the SRS and the DSS, so he said - it must be resolved. It seemed very threatening and you didn't react, the majority of the assembly or the competent state authorities, and that's why today we have a continuation of what Wardsworth thinks is democracy -- although the democracy of Enver Hodge, but apparently Wardsworth wants such democracy in Serbia. We Serbian radicals do not want such democracy. We advocated and always advocated democracy, free elections, and always respected the electoral will of the citizens, whatever she was. But to be imposed on us by an officer called the American ambassador -- that's inadmissible. Serbia's attitude towards such things is inadmissible. No serious state would pass, miss, without reacting to such a thing. Thank you. We also asked the other day whether the state of Serbia and the competent authorities would react with some protest note to the state of Croatia, because of the regulations that the Croatian Parliament has passed and relating to agricultural land, whose owners are Serbs, who, of course, cannot process it, because they do not have the conditions to return to Croatia, because they cannot live there, because this state is doing nothing to create some reciprocal contracts, to create conditions in any way and enable Serbs to return to their hearths, primarily in the Republic of the Serbian Krajina? Look what serious states do, I'm sorry to have to say about Croatia, but they are. They say -- Serbian Ambassador to Croatia Radivoj Cveticanin was handed a protest note in Zagreb on Tuesday for re-amending the Serbian government's decision to protect the property of parts of the company, which is based on the territory of the former SFRJ republics and has been requested to immediately suspend the application of the decision. The Croatian ministry said it was once again pointed to the unacceptable adoption of the rules, which, following the signing and entry into force of the contract on the issues of succession of the former SFRY, are being prevented from applying the contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11254	Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11255	It's been a while. I'm sorry. I'm gonna have to take this again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11256	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11257	Dear Vice-President, Your Honors Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to quote article 16, or I would like to refer to Articles 27, 131, 104, etc. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I appeal to Article 16. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says - the confirmed international agreements must be in line with the Constitution. We have expressed doubts that an international agreement has been confirmed, an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Gazprom, the Russian Federation, in line with the Constitution. We filed an initiative with the Constitutional Court over three months ago. However, we have not yet received an answer as to whether this agreement is in accordance with the Constitution or not. Why was it a problem for the Constitutional Court not to decide the whole three months on the initiative? Why is it a problem for our negotiators to wait for the Constitutional Court's assessment? Why is it a problem to respect the Constitution? A moment ago, my colleague noted that the LDP did not support this constitution. We're still staying on it. However, this constitution exists and it would be your turn to respect it, all of you who participated in the adoption of this constitution, which you accepted as the highest legal act of one state. Who will respect this constitution if it is not respected by the Supreme Legislative Body, which is the Assembly? Who will respect the Constitution if it is not respected by the president of the state and by all the other authorities who are obliged to respect it, because they have to implement it and have to work in accordance with the law and the Constitution? I'd like to apply to article 84. The Constitution, which says that acts which are prohibited by the opposite of the law are limited by free competition, by creating or abuse of a monopoly and dominant position, that everything is wonderful and wonderful in this agreement, which we disagree with and which we claim to be incompatible with the Constitution. However, a provision that puts the Russian company in a more favourable position than all other market participants, which is regarding income taxation, which is a period of 30 years. So for the next 30 years, the Russian company will pay taxes under the current regulations of the Republic of Serbia, under which the NIS also pays. We know very well that NIS has a monopoly position in this country. So we're just giving up this monopoly position with regard to paying taxes to a foreign state firm. Only that provision, if it were contrary to the Constitution, would be the reason for the agreement to be put out of force by the Constitutional Court. However, it is obvious that there is no will and is in a great hurry, so there is no will to wait for the constitutional court's will, but there is a will to hurry and to realise this harmful legal work, as far as the interests of the Republic of Serbia are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11258	There's no damage to Article 27, 131. I remind you that the procedure for communication between the Constitutional Court and the National Assembly is that it is also easy to find out that the Constitutional Court has sent a request to the Legislative Committee, when that request arrives, the President of the Legislative Committee said in his statement that it will schedule a session of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly and act as in earlier cases when communication occurred between the Constitutional Court and the Legislative Committee. I ask all MPs and warn that in their requests for breach of the Rules of Procedure they do not qualify, disqualify or comment in any way on the Constitutional Court and the work of the Constitutional Court, except as we are allowed in the Assembly to talk about the courts, judges, whether they are constitutional or any other. National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11259	Madam Vice-President, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I call on Article 225 and 226, because one notice is needed, which is important not only for the work of MPs, but for the work of some institutions of which this state and how it depends. So, even though we started a debate Monday on the 2009 draft budget, my question concerns the budget, in fact the implementation of the 2008 budget, concerns the question, the financing of scientific institutions. According to the information I have, scientific institutions did not receive any personal incomes or material costs this month, so that institutions could work uninterruptedly. Also, I know that Mr Djelic, Minister of Science, sent a warrant to the Treasury on December 10th to pay off these debts and that institutions can continue their work. Until today, they have not received any funds or personal incomes, which have already been earned, either for material costs or for the institutes to be able to work. I have information that many institutes could stop working after Christmas, because they don't have to pay for neither electricity nor ointment. My question is quite precise about what happens to payments that the government is obliged to pay to institutes and other scientific institutions? Secondly, I can only conclude that it probably means that at the moment the vault is empty and that the government is unable to lead Serbia. I know right now that you are going to say that the Treasury is empty, that it is the global economic crisis and that it is the result, but I have to tell you that experts say that we do not have the effects of the global economic crisis still in Serbia and that they are just expected the first quarter of next year, in March and April, and that what the Treasury is empty and not filled with the necessary dynamics is actually the inability of the government. It is only the government that is to blame that Serbia is in this state today. On the other hand, it is clear to me that you are not responding to DSS MPs when they ask you precisely how the vault is charged and whether the dynamics are respected. By the way, it is also clear to me that Mr Jelasic said the other day that it is quite possible to reduce pensions in 2009, personal incomes and all other contributions paid out of the Treasury due to inadequate charging of the Treasury. So, in order not to violate the time given to me at this time, I ask you to answer me why no material costs and personal incomes are paid to scientific institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11260	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11261	Article 27, but in the end I will ask a question in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. Madam Vice President, you are trying to tell us here that the way we refer to the Constitutional Court is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the laws, etc., that is to say, to do so in a way that is not permitted. However, Vice-President of the Judita Popovic Assembly thinks she best explained the essence of our constitutional initiative, the work that needs to be done by the Constitutional Court and the scandal that is happening. I have to tell you what the scandal is about. If I get a notice Monday from the Constitutional Court that they have sent the Serbian Parliament to the Legislative Committee, be careful what they ask of it, that the Legislative Committee declares whether the ratification of the agreement has the power of the law. I have to remind you, when we got that agreement, we got it by writing: a law on ratification of the agreement. He had two members and followed the agreement in Serbian and Russian, with a valid version in Russian. That is why we say that it is absolutely impossible for the Constitutional Court to inform us that he has sent it to the congregation, and it has not yet arrived in the congregation. I'm not saying that Mr. Vlatkovic is not telling the truth, but he's talking about the Constitutional Court being obviously far from this building, far from this state. They either played through a pigeon or a diligence. I don't know how they sent them to the Serbian Parliament. We are talking about the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of Article 167. The Constitution: "The Constitutional Court decides on the consent of approved international agreements with the Constitution". What's the point? They don't want to. Five Constitutional Court judges were elected by President Tadic, the five ruling majority. We have ten judges instead of 15, and we know why that is. They don't want to answer until this contract is signed today in Moscow. Why don't they want to? Because they know that the constitution has been broken, which they know is not in Serbia's interest and will eventually be declared incompetent, which is a scandal in itself. We've been trying only one thing for more than three months -- to summon, above all, the ruling majority in this assembly, that the constitution you voted for must be respected, the laws in this country, and the law on privatisation, which has been violated, among other things. Mrs. Malovic, it's a responsibility for all of us. You gave the phone session yesterday consent to sign this contract. Being a phone booth doesn't free anyone from responsibility. It is also a scandal in itself, because you have assessed it as an agreement and a contract of the century, and in fact you are bringing Serbia into one important position in relation to Russia. The Constitutional Court will eventually have to declare this and eventually it will have to, in accordance with laws and with its powers, declare this agreement against the constitution and it will have to fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11262	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. There is a communication procedure between the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court. This is not the first time the Constitutional Court has addressed the National Assembly, and to quote similar provisions of the Constitution, I remind you that there is also a history of communication between the Constitutional Court and the Legislative Committee and that there is a difference between contracts, agreements, laws, individual provisions in law, members of law and the work of members of the law. There is all this in the documentation of the Legislative Committee of the Archives, and how communication was made between the Constitutional Court and the Legislative Committee. I can only repeat that the president of the Legislative Committee has said that it has not officially been reached from the Constitutional Court. It is very easy to determine the truthfulness of his allegations, because he told the speaker, at a time when it is easy to determine whether or not the documentation existed at that time. This refers to my reminder, that we all remember what the Constitutional Court's obligations are, what the Legislative Committee's obligations are, and, accordingly, we're asking everyone to do the job he's in charge of. National MP Zoran Ostojić wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11263	Vice President, I believe both the Constitutional Court and Mr. Vlatkovic, I believe the letter has gone, but it has not come. I think it's the director of the post office. I won't, Mrs. Comic, about the Constitutional Court, but I'll talk about another institution that's multiplying like that coffee "three in one", except there's a lot more than "three in one". Who's the Director of the Post Office, who's responsible for not having that letter arrived? It looks like Boris Tadic, since the president of the party, the president of the state, the Prime Minister, is obviously also the director of the Post Office. Who's in the interest of not getting there? To whoever goes to Moscow today to sign that shameful contract. The Constitutional Court, every honour to him, five judges proposed Mr. Tadic as president, five judges elected the ruling majority, but she passed, to say Kostunica's ruling majority, is missing another five judges to complete the court. As far as the LDP is concerned, the court will have to deal with these documents signed today in Moscow. Elem, a single contract will be signed today and will be signed by Energy and Mining Minister Skundric. That's the contract we're handing over to the Russian state of NIS, so we'll see when we get the money and if we get the money. Since the Justice Minister is present, I must take the opportunity to ask you. If we are well informed, at one of the previous government sessions, when there was a disagreement of the government's members about a further strategy, that is to say, to sign only one agreement, while other agreements, memos, declarations, etc., then we were informed through the media that this one single contract, which will be signed today, will come to ratification here in the Assembly and that this is the government's decision. This was insisted by the current head of the negotiating team, Mr Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister. I can't wait for that contract to come, to see you who voted to ratify the agreement, convincing us that nothing will come from the pipeline and the gas pipeline guarantee, will you then ratify only the NIS sales contract, without the pipeline construction contract. It's natural for him to contract the construction of the pipeline, to be honest, that's what we told you in September, he can't be.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11264	National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11265	Article 225. I ask the attending minister did the government vote to send the contract, which will be signed today, to parliament for ratification?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11266	The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11267	Article 104 and as regards Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I just read how the Croatian state reacts to something they don't like or think they don't like about relations between Serbia and Croatia, unlike Serbia, which doesn't react to much more difficult things, which doesn't care why Serbs can't return to RSK, why they can't have their apartments there, why every few days we have news in the newspaper, and when it gets out, that someone was beaten up, that someone was murdered, that someone's house was burned down, that a church was burned down. It's not the interest of the Serbian state. You've obviously got a lot of problems and other things. We started the story today, i.e. a few days ago, and today we continue to work on Stephen Wardsworth, an English ambassador to Serbia who says, among other things, on his blog: "People sometimes wonder whether it is appropriate, or whether it is a interference in internal politics, that the ambassador "supports" some political party. I claim that monitoring what different political parties are preparing to do, as well as meetings with their leaders, is a normal part of diplomatic life. It is a good opportunity to meet not only leaders, but also some of those who work in parties, and without which democracy cannot work." Ladies and gentlemen, democracy can't work like this. I ask you, is it possible that in Great Britain, the Serbian ambassador can address the citizens of Great Britain in this way? Of course he can't and of course he shouldn't. Who's going to stop Wardsworth here in Serbia, who's going to tell him he can't behave like that? The fact that he communicates with the representatives of some parties who allow him to do so is their internal matter. The fact that he was able to talk, obviously in our ignorance, and with some who were once in the SRS, that's also their thing. They're now on the same wavelength, we don't care. We want to protect the electoral rights of Serbian citizens. The SRS won 78 seats in the last elections. We are today the strongest opposition party in parliament. We insist that such insinuations appear in the newspaper and direct attacks by Stephen Wardsworth are convicted by the Serbian state authorities, because it is their constitutional obligation. We're not asking anyone to protect us, we can protect ourselves. We protect Serbia's interests... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done, thank you. We have been protecting parliamentary democracy, in Serbia for which we have fought and fought for 18 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11268	There's no breach of Article 104. Article 104 refers to the course of the sitting. The reason for the injury does not apply to any of the participants in the session. National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as soon as the first information arrived on the behaviour of UK Ambassador Wardsworth in Serbia, I expected the foreign ministry, the Serbian government, to stand up for its own sovereignty and state integrity. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. After several discussions, after several outings for this pay phone, mostly SRS MPs, because the others were no longer involved, following demands that the state finally respond, nothing happened again. When our ambassador, newly appointed in Great Britain, Mr Popovic, left, was at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs itself, clearly and unequivocally said he would respect the foreign affairs ministry directives and respect Serbia's state integrity and sovereignty in all of his jobs there to do. Therefore, Ambassador Popovic has nothing to blame. The foreign ministry was obliged either to react or to resign. It's just amazing how much power in Serbia humiliates the state of Serbia, humiliates citizens of Serbia, how much sovereignty it tramples. I understand that you had to be condescending for a while to those who brought you to power after that bulldozer revolution. It has an end, and one moment it has to stop. State above all else, sovereignty above all else, people above all else. If we had the Ministry, it would have sent a protest note at that moment. If we had the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that moment would call on the ambassador to consult. If we had a foreign ministry that respects the state of Serbia, it would now declare Ambassador Wardsworth a person non grat. Wardsworth has the right in his Labour Party, or which he already has, to behave as he wills in accordance with the statutes of the party in England. Wardsworth first has to share lessons with some of the parties in Serbia that he created. But Wardsworth has no right to interfere in behavior, in the work of parties in Serbia created by the Serbian people. He has the right to those who finance, those who are financed through him by M-6, have the right to give them lessons... (President: Please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured. I'm done, I'm done now, but in their rooms... . (President: I am asking you not to finish but to present a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured. ) Members of 225 and 226, in direct connection with Article 104, because the dignity of not only MPs in the National Assembly, not only of the parties parliamentary in the Assembly, but of the states of Serbia, but of the citizens of Serbia, has been injured, and the sovereignty of this state has been severely violated, and nothing... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. He's not taking over.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11270	There's no breach of Article 104. Article 104 refers to the course of the session and the participants in the session of the National Assembly. The explanation you gave does not apply to persons participating in the session. National MP Judita Popovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11271	Dear Vice President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to members 27 and 31. The Rules of Procedure and I remind you that the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly are helping the president of the National Assembly to do business from his work. I'm very glad that our story echoed that there are certain nuances, differences between agreements, memos, declarations and contracts. Obviously, the vice president of the assembly also realized that there were differences and thank her very much for drawing attention to that fact. However, I would draw attention to the fact that by insisting and calling on all institutions to do their jobs and to ask these institutions, the state authorities to do their jobs, that does not mean that we are in any way insulting these institutions and bodies. We're just saying, it's okay if it's a serious state institution, then it's necessary to do its jobs in accordance with the Constitution and the law. So when we asked the Constitutional Court to do something under the Constitution, then the Constitutional Court really should have started working, and he had plenty of time. Otherwise, I would like to quote to you again Article 16 that says that the confirmed international contracts must be in accordance with the Constitution. Which means they have to. Therefore, if doubt arises, then the Constitutional Court must react if it has received an initiative on the constitutionality of the international treaty. So it's about having to. Now I'd like to quote article 99. The Constitution, and point 4, which says - the National Assembly confirms international agreements when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them. I remind you that we have ratified this agreement, a gas-oil deal with the Russian Federation. We've ratified the treaty, and we can call it an international contract. The government has given it to ratification of the National Assembly in accordance with Article 99(4). It's an international contract. We asked for an assessment of the constitutionality of that international treaty. The Constitutional Court is obliged to work, because if it reads the Constitution, and I assume that the Constitutional Court judges read the Constitution, otherwise they would not be judges of the Constitutional Court, then they had to bear in mind Article 16 of this Constitution, which says international contracts must be in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, if they had to, and were known under the provisions of the international agreement with the Russians, that the agreements would be signed by 31 December of this year, which came out of the agreement, then the Constitutional Court had to make sure that it appreciates the constitutionality of an international agreement awaiting its implementation on 31 December. So what the Constitutional Court was doing for three months without solving it, it ended up elegantly returning the ball to the Legislative Committee of this congregation. When all this is considered, I'm really asking if we're tearing down the dignity of institutions... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) by asking them to do what their work is, or by those who work in these institutions, to destroy the dignity of these institutions and do not work and respect neither the Constitution nor the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11272	National MPs, no violation of Article 27, and no Article 31 - I am taking care of order and reminding the MPs within the framework of the conduct and other affairs provided for by law and this Rules of Procedure on relations between the Constitutional Court and the National Assembly, reminding me once again that the Constitutional Court is addressing the Legislative Committee in accordance with the established procedure and that this has been the case so far, because this is how the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court communicate. National MP Zarko Korać wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11273	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of Parliament, I appeal to members of 225 and 226 and I ask the question to the only Prime Minister present who is here, with all due respect, she now represents the Government. Is it possible that Serbia has experienced another humiliation, that this agreement is approved at a phone session, I am talking about an oil deal? I have no illusions about it, since the assembly, unfortunately, has ratified most of this. I'm only saying this because of something that MPs who sit around don't always think at a given moment, and that's that some history is still recording what anyone's been saying, whatever someone thinks about it. I want it recorded that I'm scandalized by an agreement that's being signed. We had a press conference recently, where he spoke to the former prime minister, who said two exact things, and he skipped out on one. He said it was necessary to have an agreement with the Russian Federation, which has the largest stock in the world. That's right. He said, for example. that Bulgaria and Greece have an agreement, exactly, but did not say what kind of agreement Greece and Bulgaria are in. That agreement is fundamentally different than this one. The agreement does not give majority ownership to the Russian company. In Serbia alone, the majority property was given to the Russian Federation and it is a monopoly. We give one foreign state monopoly on energy sources in this country. For this speaker, there were many, in my opinion, and completely unwarranted and incorrect objections to various other privatisations, from "Sartid" to the tobacco industry. That everything that's been said about these privatisations, and it's not, is something else entirely. There was no monopoly there. And today in Serbia you can build a steel mill, you can deal, under certain conditions in agreement with the government, the production of cigarettes. You're here giving one foreign state a monopoly on something that is fundamentally important for the future of this country. The problem of energy is the problem that will solve the fate and independence of countries in the 21st century. It's clear to all of us, I end up with this, that this is one political agreement. It's almost amazing to me, since we heard Vuk Jeremic, who said politics towards Kosovo, led by this government, is the direct continuity of Kostunica's policy. We now see that politics is also the energy direct continuity of this policy. I'm asking one question, I'm really talking to the MEPs, what did you change the previous government in the first place? If all the fundamental items of economic, political, these governments are something that this assembly needs to confirm, allow, gentlemen, then it was necessary to retain that government, it should bear its historical responsibility for the decisions it makes. I object to this agreement, I believe that the energy monopoly must not be given, I repeat, I want it recorded - no foreign state, any. And the story is that this is guaranteed by parliaments, governments, political decisions, is ridiculous. Economic contracts are economic contracts. We should have good relations with the Russian Federation, but not to pay the Russian Federation for so-called. protection around Kosovo in continuity. This will remain as a shameful day for Serbia, that a foreign state has been given a full energy monopoly, for history to record this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11274	Does the representative, Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11275	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Today, there is also a debate on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Under this law, I'd like to give you some important notes. As you know, the Ministry of Justice has prepared a bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which the Government delivered to the National Assembly on 8 December 2008 for the purpose of considering and adopting an emergency procedure. That bill contained more extensive amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was adopted in 2001 and represented the alignment of the law with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Criminal Law and the ratified international conventions and contracts relating to criminal proceedings. The legislative proposal also contained one of the most necessary amendments and additions to the Codes which are not the result of harmonisation, but, in the opinion of the case law and the expert public, they are necessary to create conditions for the effective and comprehensive application of the Codes in practice. At the same time, given that a special law on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors was also introduced, there was also a need for certain legal-technical changes in that part of that code. The transitional provisions of the proposed law provided for the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure to be put out of effect for the reason that provisions concerning the protection of witnesses, the delay and suspension of the main investigation, as well as provisions relating to the so-called so-called provisions were adopted in the draft law. specific evidence actions to be applied in criminal proceedings, both for organised crime offences and for other particularly serious crimes and criminal acts of corruption. The working version of the legal text was prepared by a working group composed of representatives of scientific institutions, judges, public prosecutors and lawyers. The president of the task force was Professor Grubach. However, given the overload of the National Assembly, that is, the fact that a large number of legislative proposals are being considered and adopted in the assembly procedure, including the draft budget law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia withdrew the draft law from the assembly procedure and referred the Law amending the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure to the National Assembly. This law applies the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure, which is due to enter into force on 31.12.2008, except for provisions to be applied, is postponed until 1 July 2010. Since this code provides for the introduction of a prosecutor's investigation, it is necessary, as you know, to create additional material, technical and educational conditions. Since these conditions are not secured, it is proposed to postpone the application of this Code until the necessary conditions are secured. It is proposed that the application of the law be postponed until 1 July 2010, bearing in mind that the draft laws governing the organisation of judicial authorities are intended to start a new network of judicial authorities on 1 January 2010, for a period of six months, and then create the necessary conditions for the application of the laws. More important, the 2006 Law contains a large number of shortcomings that result in its application being delayed to the greatest extent. Indeed, the professional public rightly points to a large number of inconsistencies and contradictions related to the very text of this Code. Namely, its provisions do not comply with the provisions of the Constitution, but also with the text of the Criminal Code, in particular with regard to provisions relating to the concept of a criminal offence, which has been elaborated differently in the Code of Criminal Procedure. According to the expert public and court practice, a disputed moment of initiation of the investigation, as well as an act initiating the investigation. Also, no account has been taken of the new criminal sanctions system provided for by the Criminal Code, and individual appeal grounds are also disputed to make this legal remedy known. In addition, none of the existing models of the process has been consistently developed, including the institutes that are introduced by that code in certain provisions, which are clearly defined in further provisions. In addition to the fact that this code also contains a number of technical discrepancies, it is necessary to amend a number of provisions, in order to bring them into line with the other text of the Code, and to remove a number of contradictory provisions, since its application in the proceedings before courts, in addition to those mentioned above, would lead to major problems both for state authorities acting in criminal proceedings and for the exercise of the Constitution of guaranteed rights of accused persons. It is clear from all of this, that the application of this code at this time and with its unchanged text is not possible because the adverse consequences of the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens would arise. The proposed resolution of this law would continue to apply the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, with certain provisions of the 2006 Code already applicable. For his part, the Ministry of Justice does not give up on the concept of so-called "justice". Prosecutorial investigations, i.e. new and modern legal institutes, to be introduced into the criminal procedural legislation of the Republic of Serbia. A new working group has been educated to prepare a new text of this Code, which will at the same time represent the necessary alignment with the Constitution, criminal law and ratified international conventions in the criminal and legal area, as well as a new legal solution from the laws governing the organisation of the judiciary, but also the regulation of the best legal solutions that meet the needs of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. While preparing the text, good solutions will also be taken into account from the applicable laws, some provisions will be more precisely regulated because of the justified suggestions of professional practice and the professional public, taking into account the comparative legislative solutions of modern European legislation. Such text will create conditions for the effective and comprehensive application of the Codes in practice, i.e. faster and more effective criminal proceedings, with maximum guarantees for the achievement and protection of human rights in criminal proceedings. The task force is made up of our distinguished experts from this area, and that is from the order of representatives of scientific institutions, both from the order of judges, public prosecutors, lawyers, police. As I have already said, there are really no necessary conditions at this point to introduce the concept of a prosecutor's investigation from 31.12.2008. With the new organisation of judicial authorities, the equipment of judicial authorities, the additional education of judicial holders and the adoption of a new law in criminal proceedings, with all certain legal institutes, we will create the necessary conditions for a more modern and more efficient criminal procedure in accordance with the needs of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11276	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? Yeah. ) I would like to inform the National Assembly that representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorised under this item of the SRS parliamentary group MP Petar Jojic, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica MP Milica Radovic and the LDP parliamentary group MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The word is Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11277	As a representative of the LDP in the Legislative Committee, Madam Chairman, I have issued an opinion, part of the argument stands in the very light of the reasons for the government's passing of the law. Namely, the Code of Criminal Procedure should begin to apply from 31.12.2008. Since this code provides for the introduction of a prosecutor's investigation, additional material and technical conditions need to be created for its implementation. Since these conditions are not secured, it is proposed to postpone the application of this Code until the necessary conditions are secured. The question can now be asked why, since these amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure need to illustrate the situation in procedural legislation in order not to get into a situation where we have non-applicable regulations. Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia say: "The Legislative Committee is considering the draft law, second regulation and general act addressed to the National Assembly from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the proposal for the adoption of authentic interpretation of laws, other regulations and general acts adopted by the Assembly, as well as the issue of a single legislative methodology and other issues of importance for the uniform legal and technical processing of acts brought by the National Assembly. "It is precisely the unsustainable state concerning procedural law in the area of criminal law that has led me to take an opinion, namely that the first position of Article 45 also speaks of a single legislative methodology and other issues of importance for the uniform legal and technical processing of acts. As a member of the Legislative Committee, I really did not want to vote in favour of such an unsustainable situation in procedural legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11278	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11279	I'm sorry, according to my profession, I like to have papers in front of me that I've been preparing for today's discussion. A good part of what I wanted to say about this matter was brought out by the distinguished Ms. Minister, Mrs. Malovic, so I will see to it that I do not take away my exposure to the Assembly's valuable time. I'm going to start with one statement. The law on criminal proceedings falls within the scope of the most important laws. For many, it's the most important law after the Constitution. And one of Roxin's (Klaus Roxin) quotes: a criminal act is a seismographer of the rights and freedom of man and citizen. What is our situation regarding procedural law regarding criminal law? We have in force the 2006 Criminal Procedure Act, which was brought on speed, for which there was a wide expert and scientific debate, without any prior preparation or verification of the ideas that were incorporated into it. The legal text, among other things, was created by the compilation of a number of completely new procedural institutions and a solution taken from foreign law and procedural provisions of the existing law. Of course, before this law began to apply, it had already been prepared to amend it and supplement it in fact until there was no law at all. In that fact, the authors admitted that this text was not to be applied. What Ms. Malovic was talking about is very good that a group of experts was created that would produce criminal-processing matter, but that is what awaits us. I'm talking about what is now our reality in the area of criminal procedural legislation. Therefore, according to what I have stated, we have an impossible situation not to apply the applicable law because it is inapplicable, and to novelize a law that is delegated and that this law that should actually be put out of force is still being applied. This is our current situation with regard to procedural law in the area of criminal law. The reality is also the generosity of constitutional frameworks concerning this matter. I'm going to do a crackdown on the tardiness of these constitutional frameworks. The former radicals, now members of the new parliamentary group, have held this constitution before them as an icon, speaking of its qualities, and some DSS colleagues spoke of this constitution as the most important achievement, the most important success of previous governments, led by Vojislav Kostunica. I'd ask them to read the Constitution first, then talk about his qualities. In particular, I'd like to ask if they know he's a member of 102. The Constitution contrary to Article 5. The Constitution, alone with you? Do they know he's a 105. The Constitution contrary to Article 134. The Constitution? These members concern ministerial responsibility and the removal of immunity to ministers. The constitution itself is an antinomic, i.e. it represents the opposite. That is why they ask that all of us do not speak of this as the most significant achievement and great success. We know how the Constitution was adopted and we know that only LDP pointed to the generosity and procedure and text of the Constitution. It's also the normative in the Constitution regarding the judiciary, especially the state's attorney's office. The current Law on Criminal Procedures, which is not applicable, and I think the future legislation, which Mrs Malovic specifically spoke of, provides for a prosecutorial investigation. It's okay. The prosecutor's investigation is a planetary trend, the prosecution's investigation is a step forward in criminal-processing legislation, but an independent prosecutor's office is also needed for the prosecution's investigation. The introduction of this institute is accompanied by a conflicting process, because it is being narrowed down from an independent authority, which is an investigative judge, to the prosecutor and at the same time to his independence. Prosecutor's independence narrows down the Constitution itself, Article 158. The investigation is practically transferred to the government. To remind you, Article 158 states that no prosecutor, from the Republic to the lowest prosecutor's authorities, can be appointed without a proposal from the government. Does this mean that the investigation will be transferred to the government in the future and that the prosecution will be obedient to the government's authority? The very situation in the prosecution is also unsustainable. We now have a V.D. The state of the D.A.'s office. Is there an independent prosecutor's office with a V.D. A condition that's been going on for a long time? I'd even quote a Republican prosecutor's office -- it's just an illustration of the anomalies I'm talking about. This is a transcript of the show that was attended by the Honorable Prosecutor. He says, "I've given mandatory instructions to all paroles. The D.A. has an obligation to complain if he doesn't want to. "Why, then, a conditional conviction, if the prosecutors of the apriors contest its existence? In the end, I'd say a few things about what happens if these changes and the additions we're talking about don't vote? So, if the Assembly does not vote on the amendments and additions spoken of by the distinguished Ms Malovic, the next situation will take place -- as of January 1st, there is no investigative judge; the investigation is conducted by a public prosecutor who has become a party to the proceedings; detention is determined by the court; the defence has no access to evidence collected by the prosecutor; neither the police nor the prosecution have the technical opportunity to carry out Article 258 that speaks of the technical attributes of the investigation. If those rights are denied to the accused, it is an essential violation of the criminal proceedings, and with a significant violation of the criminal proceedings followed by the release of the accused, i.e. the fact that such evidence collected cannot be treated as evidence. Similarly, the LDP will behave, because regardless of all the anomalies in the procedural-legal normative, citizens' interest is above all, and we must not allow citizens to find themselves in such a situation, where they will be subject to non-applicable law. Finally, I would add that, the words are addressed to the esteemed Mrs Malovic, and I am very sorry that she, as the responsible minister, must now remove other people's chestnuts from the fire, some irresponsible governments and irresponsible ministers who had performed that function before her. In what she was just talking about, I wish her a lot of success, and I want it to come true as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11280	The word has been passed by MP Milica Radovic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, I must confess that I expected this proposal to be amended and supplemented by the Code of Criminal Procedure much earlier in this assembly. In their principle debates on the set of judicial laws, the DSS MPs repeatedly pointed to the fact that the Code of Criminal Procedure should begin to apply on 1 January 2009 and that it would be necessary to postpone it unless the basic conditions for its application were met. It is incomprehensible that at this point we are discussing this text of the law, when this job was meant to be done much earlier. It is also incomprehensible that it took the government this long to refer only one member of this proposal to the assembly procedure that was to be voted on much earlier. I have to do a little dyspression. Today in the daily newspaper "Blic" I read a statement by the esteemed judge, Mr. Omer Hadjiomerovic, who said, and in some way transferred the blame to the MPs themselves, why we are questioning the vote of this amendment and the addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure and we are in fact making it uncertain whether it will be delayed, whether the application of this code will be delayed. It is simply because of the accuracy and information, I must say that MPs are not to blame for the fact that the application of this code may not be delayed. I must point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on 17 December of this year, referred to the assembly procedure of this amendment and the addition of the laws we are discussing today, and the MPs themselves do not have any responsibility unless its application is delayed. So it is the government that is solely responsible for the possible failure to implement the Code of Criminal Procedure. It was just for the public to know what this was about. Of course, I must point out that the Assembly has never put any of the laws on the agenda faster than the one we're discussing today. On the other hand, of course, this is no wonder, if we have in mind the way this government works, it's late in everything. The ruling coalition is unable to ensure the efficient work of parliament. Also, there is no agreement with the opposition itself on any part of the agenda, nor on any other procedure or tasks related to the work of this assembly. It's not a good thing together because the consequences of all this we're all going through together. The ruling coalition, with its inability to provide 126 MPs, could recently question and vote on the Law on travel documents. The budget itself is now being called into question, as the session to which the budget is being discussed is scheduled just a few days ago. 243 amendments have been submitted to the budget, which is currently talking about the very character and the quality of such a legal proposal at all. If this government were serious and responsible, yesterday, December 23rd, we would not be discussing the budget, just days before December 29th, when not only this session should be completed, but a regular session at all. These are all the facts the opposition points to on a daily basis. I think the government will show its constructiveness, that it will ensure that the draft budget is voted and that the state will not lead to temporary financing, because if that happens, then once again, by who knows which time, it will show how unable it is to lead this country. On the other hand, someone may not seem to be talking about the agenda here, but I only say this because I point out that in the conditions in which the government is ruling and in the conditions in which the government is unable to provide normal conditions for Parliament's work, I doubt that the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure will be delayed. It is simply that you will bring into doubt and in the very confusion of not only the on-call investigative judge and not only the on-call public prosecutor, who will be on duty on the night between 31 December 2008 and 1 January 2009, because he will not know what law he will apply, but you will bring to confusion the entire judicial public, all those judges, all those prosecutors, all those representatives and members of the Ministry of the Interior who apply the Code of Criminal Procedure daily in their work. The bill provides for a new role as public prosecutor in criminal proceedings. He's supposed to be handling a pre-cover procedure. That means that procedure in front of the internal affairs authorities and the investigation process itself. This proposal shall transfer the investigation procedure from the jurisdiction of the judiciary to the jurisdiction of the prosecution. Simply in order for that to be possible, prosecutors must be staffed in order to accept such a job as conducting an investigation. On the other hand, a change in the procedural position of the police is foreseen in the procedure itself, because regardless of the fact that the public prosecutor will continue to handle the criminal proceedings, police officers will be able to self-initiately take all those actions and work on lighting and lighting up crimes, on finding the perpetrator of crimes and on providing the clues themselves. Also, police will be able to see for themselves the crimes for which the prison sentence is scheduled for up to five years. In order for all of this to take effect, in order for all of this to apply, it is necessary that all people and all persons who will be authorised to apply the CAP, in the light of new powers, will have to be simply empowered and qualified to apply it. Also, in addition to not being provided with personnel conditions, which take time, in which persons authorised to apply the CAP would be able to apply it in an adequate and correct manner, neither technical nor material conditions for the application of this Code are provided. As far as material and technical conditions are concerned, I just have to point out what this is about -- no premises are provided to investigate in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure. Also, no necessary technical conditions have been provided to allow for a secret sound and optical monitoring of the suspects themselves. They are also not provided with the necessary technical conditions to record the face-examination of the police, of course, and the means for the experts themselves and a number of other factors, but all of this is in favour - that it is necessary to postpone the Code of Criminal Procedure. The basic question arises - why has the Ministry of Justice so far not potentiated, or at least initiated in the extreme case the education of personnel who will be authorised to act in accordance with this law. I can understand the fact that the material conditions for the application of this code are not secured, but we simply point out on time - the need for these funds to be foreseen in the 2010 budget, so that we do not again come into the situation to postpone the application of this code. It seems to me that the representatives of the Justice Department are acting casually when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which at the very least proves the date when they sent us to the assembly procedure this bill has only one member. The MPs themselves have put the situation in place that we are now unable to predict whether the application of the code will be delayed because of the situation in which the Assembly is located, because the government is late with the draft budget, because 243 amendments have been submitted to the budget and to all other financial laws about 500 amendments, and the deadline when we are due to conclude this session is December 29th. At the very end, for who knows which time, I point out again the obligation of the authorities to apply what is written in the Constitutional Law, which is to align all those laws, which, according to my analysis, are over 50, with the Constitution itself. The government has done nothing on this matter, not even referred them to the congregation procedure. It's just technical laws. It's about laws that could be passed within the hour. I am convinced that MPs of the opposition would not appear by them, because it is technical laws and it is something that stems from the constitution itself, which is our constitutional obligation. I think the situation is even weirder if we have in mind that this code, which we're talking about right now, is exactly the one from a group of 50 laws that should be in line with the Constitution itself, and I just don't understand -- why the government, if it's already referred to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing this code, why it didn't predict those technical changes that fully harmonize it with the Constitution itself. I don't think that would prolong the work of this Assembly, because if we already came to the vote on this law, then that would complete its alignment with the Constitution itself. It's just that this way the government knows for who knows which way -- that it's not up to the work it's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11282	There is a word from MP Petar Jojic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Madam Chairman, this law, which has been put into practice before the Assembly, has been put behind schedule. It's about the most important law in one country, it can be and should be even with the Constitution. Because if you want to appreciate the degree of democracy in one country - take procedural legislation and you will draw conclusions from it and determine whether there is democracy or no democracy. What I wanted to point out this time and remind the MPs and the professional public is - that the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is applicable, was its essence and its provisions between 1999, 2000, and was finally adopted in 2001 because it was put before the Federal National Assembly and the Federal Assembly adopted the Code. It was the first radical process in reforming criminal law in Serbia, the then-SRJ. The radical cuts were indeed founded in 2000, when we prepared this proposal in the federal government and this code, whose group I formed with the help of the most professional people in the state, including judges, prosecutors, lawyers, law professors, who have worked with us for a long time to prepare such an important law in the then SRJ, whose provisions have been transposed and adopted in the current Code of Criminal Procedure. What is characteristic and what are these provisions that state that the professional public has expressed its opinion in relation to previous laws, as well as the laws on criminal proceedings, as well as the Criminal Code. The first Code of Criminal Procedure was passed in 1946. However, he was nominated and brought next, with changes and additions, a tighter norm that contained the provisions of the law, because then it was called the Law on Criminal Procedure, it was 1953. In order for the new law, i.e. the Criminal Procedure Act to be passed in 1976, and for the new amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure to be carried out in 1985, this law which was currently adopted in accordance with the applicable 1990 SRJ Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which characterizes the provisions and reasons for the adoption of such a target law, where we are then in the Federal Government, which was the policy of the SRS, that a new criminal law must be passed, both in terms of procedural and material legislation. What were the goals of achieving the democratic principles of parallel law? The most common changes and additions to this law were carried out, as I said in 1985. What we wanted and what we were obliged to do to citizens: to build not a law on criminal proceedings, but a Code of Criminal Procedure, which should codify procedural criminal law. First, the harmonisation of the law with the Constitution, especially with provisions that directly refer to procedural matter or were related to it. Second - alignment with international acts, which our country has ratified or whose ratification is ahead, including the most important International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention against Tortrum and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating penalties or procedures, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the set of minimum rules on proceedings with prisoners. Third - establishing new solutions in which practice and Yugoslav law science at the time pointed to the current application of this law, which will contribute to greater efficiency of criminal proceedings and greater protection of human freedom and rights. In addition, the work also took into account the solutions to criminal-processing legislation of a number of European countries, as well as the components of modern criminal and legal science in general, both in relation to Angolan law and in relation to continental law. Fourth - harmonising the text of the law with changes in socio-economic and political opportunities in our country. Fifth-termological and editorial alignment of the Codes with the terminology of the new constitution and the positive legislation, with which the Code of Criminal Procedure is complementary, as well as the improvement of the systematic phase and content of the Systemic Code of Criminal Procedure. Although this proposal, when we did it, does not constitute a fundamental deviation from the concept of legislation so far. I draw attention to the fact that this legislation did not come yesterday, nor did it, you see how much legislation was developed in Serbia, from Dusan's code and beyond. In addition to current basic principles, which we have advocated that the new Code of Criminal Procedure must be incorporated into the principles - the principle of legality, the determination of truth, the setting of contradictions i.e. contradictory procedure on broader grounds, public, directness. Thus, the law introduces several new principles, which stem from the Constitution, such as the principle of protection of personal freedom and the ban on retrial. This is a new ban on retrial. Some existing procedural principles have been strengthened and extended, and derogations from them have been reduced, such as in the case of the principle of defence of the accused, i.e. the suspect, or accused. By defining this principle in many places in the code, the position and right of the suspect have been significantly improved, because at that time we in the task force have taken the view that we must build and introduce an institute of the suspect, not immediately accused or accused. This was one significant step in relation to the exercise of basic human rights, because as it was known during the communist era it was not. It was a time when it was easy to arrest a man. He's been arrested by the four-grade primary school, so he's been held in custody for months without a judge or prosecutor knowing. That's why we've introduced the suspect's status and that's why we're in the middle of a parallel right. But I can tell you that when we have approached these changes and radical changes, we have managed all the achievements of comparative rights from European countries and continental law, and we have even introduced certain standards that go a step further, which contribute to providing Serbian citizens with basic human rights more than they were during Informbiro, during Tito's letters and during various police torturers. At the time, there were considerable extensions of the powers of internal affairs authorities, and we are introducing here a part that internal affairs authorities also have certain powers, but these powers of internal affairs. Members of the police must be in control, first of all, of the court and the prosecution. What does the Institute and the position of the suspect mean? It's something new that the SRS wanted us to improve criminal law, especially in the procedural sphere, i.e. that the police may invite citizens, but the call must indicate in which capacity citizens are called. This was first installed in a new one, and now the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure. It means a lot to the citizens. They feel safer, safer, and cannot be exposed to any abuse, persecution or shagging. Police today have the right to call a citizen, but the call must indicate the reasons for the call, in which the citizen is called, whether he is called as a suspect or called as a citizen to provide specific information to police officers. Secondly, taking a statement from the police must also be attended by a defense attorney. Lawyership as part of the legal system, constitutional category, first enters the police premises. That's what I stood for. Especially because those prosecutors, which teachers and judges don't know, didn't have the opportunity to experience what it means to call a man without him being able to defend himself. That's what's very important. That police conversation could take the longest four hours. After four hours, if the police estimate that there is room for criminal charges based on the evidence collected, then the police file criminal charges, seduces her into their records, executes the person to the investigating judge and submits criminal charges to the public prosecutor, the prosecutor gives consent to investigations or does not give or release the person. These are important things. In the Code of Criminal Procedure, further, what we have concluded is not good nor is it according to the Constitution, that one person is repeatedly called upon for a crime. No, we've taken the stand that the face of the police can be called only once and for all, but for this crime. He can't be called more times, so to say, we're holding him from eight to eight in the evening, so then he says, "Come back tomorrow at 8:00 in the morning, and the next day, we can let the citizens scribble." However, this Code of Criminal Procedure prevented it. Furthermore, we have advocated that talks before an investigative judge must be attended by a lawyer, an alpha, and an omega for defence and the exercise of human rights. The rights and duties of the defendant, whom the accused himself is engaged, and if he has no money or could not hire a counsel, then the court is under official duty to appoint a counsel, so that the person has legal protection during the criminal proceedings. What did we want as a new one? It's that a person from custody without an investigative judge can't be executed on either side, not in any direction. It can only be carried out and brought to the court's premises and, on the other hand, that the conversation must be attended by a defender and must be attended by a judge, and the minutes must be made up. Furthermore, as the practice has shown as one bad and negative practice in the past, the suspect and accused has the right, following the deprivement of freedom, the conversation held in the police premises, to propose and to ask the investigating judge to carry out a personal medical examination and determine whether he may have been exposed to torture or forced recognition. (President: Mr. Jojic, about a lot we can agree on, but one minute more time. I'm sorry, but this is 16 minutes. How much did you say? Twenty minutes. (President: I apologize. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I and the Vice President understood each other. What is important, and is that we also called the state's prosecutor a state prosecutor, not a public prosecutor, and that the attorney general has greater powers than enlargement, i.e. putting out requests for investigation, enlargement of investigation and taking certain steps when it comes to gathering evidence for a contradictory procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party believes that this Code of Criminal Procedure should have been brought before the MPs sooner and that changes and additions should not only come down to so many provisions, but that a new criminal code had to be drawn up. Because a lot of provisions won't need to be changed from the existing law on criminal proceedings, I can tell you whether you believe it or not, whether you want to agree to it or not, it was a radical new Code of Criminal Procedure. Of course I included really the biggest experts in that group, while we were in the federal government, to pass a law guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of our citizens. When you compare those laws and the Code of Criminal Procedure before 2000 and 2001, you will find a whole scale and a systematization of certain criminal and legal rules that did not guarantee basic human rights and their freedoms. What is very important, and that is that now the Justice Ministry has a great responsibility that in the coming period it must adopt a new Code of Criminal Procedure as soon as possible. But you're late for that, too. I have to draw your attention, when I was doing a study at the Institute of Comparative Law, and all the laws I've been doing with a group of experts, I've always been going to see which countries is what age the basic system law was supposed to prepare and bring to parliament to be adopted. The criminal code and the Code of Criminal Procedure in the countries of Anglo-Saxon Law and the continental Code are between 10 and 15 years. But we are not the ones who are rebuilding and reforming criminal law. We have the basis of this current law, an extremely large base and a wide one, and this is what professional people have done. There's nothing better out there. Compare, I'll give you the study we've been doing, the Institute of Comparative Law. You will see that our 2000 Code of Criminal Procedure, or 2001, is more democratic than in any country in Europe. To remind ourselves, when the Code of Criminal Procedure was passed in 2006, the SRS tabled a large number of amendments and pointed out to the government then and to the proposer that what it proposed would not be possible in practice to live. And you, Madam Minister, have found that yourself, because if it weren't for those facts, those findings of the SRS MPs, you wouldn't now be able to seek to postpone that one code, which couldn't have been applied in practice. We then found that 78 provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure were contrary to the Constitution, so there is a necessary need to comply with the Constitution. Big ones here don't need any wisdom or new principles. There are a large number of these members, 125 members who have been proposed and are likely to be put on the agenda, to adopt a criminal code. But it's not a change, it's like what you've been delivering, it's already too wide for changes and supplements. That's why it's necessary to bring in a new code of criminal procedure, to shape it, norms to be precise. There's something I've noticed that you're taking over and copying from that law that was passed in 2006. However, it is immediately noted that the definitions and sayings of standards are extremely broad. Norma must be brief and clear and apply in practice. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS remain with these amendments in any case, we believe that this code should have been passed before the National Assembly far earlier and that its application would have been delayed, as we have proposed, as the Constitution guarantees, predicts and prescribes, after eight days. That is why we believe that this code should only be radically harmonised with the Constitution, it cannot be better in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11284	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the MPs' groups of New Serbia, the Liberal-Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party. I give my word to MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, this bill, which is in the assembly procedure, practically about the delaying of something that has been passed, is another message that in the Assembly the hasty laws are being adopted, I mean the laws on territory and the seats of the courts, which we adopted yesterday and the day before. Here's a change that could have taken place in this country's judicial system, which shows how difficult it is to make a major reform. I think on January 1, 2010, when the law comes in that we passed two days ago, we'll be sitting here again and delaying its application. The best example of this is this very bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. So we haven't conducted a prosecutor's investigation in a year and a half. The NS MPs in the discussion in principle and in particular will try to, through a mild suggestion, through the amendment to the effect that this change is being extended for another six months, so to enter on December 31st 2010. The reasons for that are, first of all, that the cross-section of this law over the year is not good and that it should be prolonged for the end of the year. We know that there are annual reports in our courts, we know that at the beginning of the year there is a redistribution in all courts in Serbia, which of the judges in that year will conduct criminal proceedings, investigations, out-of-pardon, litigation proceedings, etc. So, for reasons of generality and justification, it's important that something like this, if prolonged, be at the beginning of the year, not in the middle of the year. In addition, if it is July 1st, practically before the season of annual court leave, something like this is not good to change. So I appeal to the government and to the applicant of this law to bear in mind, when he decides on the amendment to the NS, to accept this amendment, because that amendment is certainly good and will correct this proposal. The law on court seats and territories is due to take effect on 1 January 2010, a big, huge, complicated job. There'll be a lot of confusion in the judiciary. Some courts are being abolished, territorial units are being introduced, judicial units. In all this, in six months from the entry of the law, we need to apply something when it comes to the investigation, so the prosecutors are going to lead the investigation. Of course, there were words here that it was a complicated job, that prosecutors weren't prepared to accept such a very difficult job, practically, that they didn't have the resources. I don't want to repeat myself, but MPs pointed out that before me. I think the point here is that if this law on the seats and areas of the courts is to be implemented in any way, at least a year from that day forward, the entry into force of this law should be extended. I don't know, but I'm fully convinced that we're going to sit down on January 1st 2010 and extend the suspension of these laws. From that point of view, I think that the holders of judicial functions should be calm and that this law, I am absolutely sure, will not be revived on 1 January 2010. As I'm sure we're going to sit here and implement the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, we're also going to extend that famous directive on the confiscation of the property benefit resulting from the crimes. What's my message? My message is that laws should be passed that will be applied, which will be revived, which will be in the role of Serbian citizens. We should not constantly pass some laws that cannot survive, and then Serbia's parliament, instead of dealing with issues of citizens, essential issues, we are dealing with here and we often waste time pro-longing laws that need to come into force. One more thing, such laws should be passed without such agendas. Here today we need to discuss the budget, a very important state issue, and we always get through something like this that we need to solve in one day. It's a necessary change, it's necessary for this to be prolonged. So also about a set of judicial laws, instead of securing deposits, travel documents and this kind of law, and in one day we solve them, we put them in one big agenda, and then what happens is that MPs are forced to accept these solutions. It's not a good message, it's not good for Serbian citizens. One more thing, we saw a statement the other day that the problem of travel documents, if they don't pass here in parliament, will be resolved by a regulation. For this law already today in the daily press you have that there will be an initiative in front of the Constitutional Court to make this go away if we don't get here to do the job. That really doesn't make sense. Parliament is an institution where such things are done, where laws are passed. Don't always have an alternative, let's not put Serbian citizens with regulations, initiatives, because we know that parliament is the key to such things and let's not disavow ourselves and create a circus. Once again, NS MPs have tabled an amendment that amends this law. It is necessary to postpone the application of this law by 31.12.2010. Don't cross the line over the year, that's not good. I note, we will have a request for a postponement again, because at the beginning of each year, the work plan is being done in courts, judges are being deployed for the tasks they will carry out in the course of the year and the annual plan. So we expect that in the debate in particular the Government accepts this amendment, it is absolutely in the spirit of the law, and I think that the Government and the Minister, who, unfortunately, is not here and has not heard what I have said, will have that in mind and will react.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11286	The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11287	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course the LDP will vote in favour of this bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Of course, we are again in a situation where we choose less between two evils. We believe it is a greater evil to bring into force the 2006 Criminal Procedure Act. That's why we feel that we should support and support this bill. The problem was that it was waiting until December 24th to put the agenda on the agenda and to discuss this key draft law on changes and additions to the CAP. It is crucial for this reason because we absolutely do not have any conditions for the implementation of the CAP adopted by the Serbian Parliament in 2006. The minister herself cited all the reasons that forced the government to submit this proposal for a law on changes and additions to the CAP. I don't want to repeat all these reasons. It is obvious that when the law was passed in 2006 only care was taken to make it quick, immediately and ad hoc. That fact has led to this situation that we no longer know what to do with this law, nor has it come into force, nor is it good to take effect, nor are we ever going to apply it, and God forbid this amendment and supplement law doesn't go away. Therefore, if we are brought into this situation, because the one who proposed the law in 2006 and who adopted it was not sufficiently far-sighted, then the question is whether the laws that go through this assembly really have all the conditions to be voted upon and to really come into force. We have already spoken of this congregation speaker that three preconditions are necessary for one law to be good, that one law can be applied. First of all, the law must have a certain reformist potential, so it must bear a certain amount of reforms needed by this society, and if a new law is passed, it is just aimed at leading to some changes in a particular segment of legislation. It's one of the preconditions. The second is to reach some consensus, and in this CAP it was necessary for the consensus to come to the judges, both prosecutors and lawyers, so that the law could indeed be applied. If there really was a consensus, then we wouldn't have so many radical solutions that literally actuate a complete law. The third condition is that the Ministry has these powers to organise law enforcement. Obviously, the ministry, and the moment the law is passed, and even now, it is not ready and is not able to implement the troubled CAP until the end. Many things are needed, many conditions must be met so that the law can be implemented. Obviously, we do not have these conditions, and obviously we have come into the situation that this law, which has never entered into force, is now being postponed again, and we are not preparing any more extensive, more complete legislative regulation regarding changes, additions or possible adoption of a completely new CAP. The 2001 Criminal Procedure Act is obviously not enough, obviously not in accordance with the existing Constitution. Obviously, life was passing by and has led to many changes that require the adoption of a new, or at least to a substantial change in the CAP. Therefore, when all these conditions that were necessary did not exist at the time of the adoption of the 2006 CAP, the question arises why was the law passed in the first place. I do not believe that those who wrote it, those who discussed it, those who proposed amendments and who eventually passed the law were not aware of all these failures and bad solutions from the law. I just can't understand it, and I can't understand it, usually there are at least a few lawyers in the congregation, a few lawyers who understand themselves in the very problem of criminal law and procedural criminal law. Otherwise, if the law was done by experts, they should have known what they were writing and what they were proposing to adopt. Indeed, it is incomprehensible that negligence and all these failings that led to this day, December 24th, to decide quickly whether or not we will adopt the Law on Amendments and Law Supplements, which consists only in extending the application of the 2006 Laws. So, a completely absurd situation that is quite inappropriate for parliament, and I think it is a great shame for the previous parliament and the previous government that were the inspirers and passers-bys of such a law. If the laws are not in line with life, if the laws are not in line with the needs of one society, with the needs of one state and with the needs of citizens, who will eventually have to live, in this case it is only some imposed solutions that end up as well as this unfortunate 2006 CAP. Normally, when we talk about this law, we also associate a set of judicial laws that were on the Assembly's agenda during the last days. We hope that these laws will not eventually come into a situation to be prolonged in the last week before the end of 2009. Therefore, if the legislator really had in front of him all the conditions that I had just listed, which must be fulfilled in order for the law to be lifelike, in that case we have the chance and realistic opportunity to experience a serious reform of the judiciary in 2010. If opportunities were missed, if these conditions were not sufficiently met, they were not appreciated enough, the possibility of whether these conditions could be subsequently created was not sufficiently appreciated, in which case nothing good or judicial reform is really written. So it's actually one finding that laws are not passed for the sake of lawmaking, but to be passed to regulate life in this country, to apply these laws, for the sake of reform, for the sake of democracy, which must really live in our country, in our society, so that we can move on, to end this stagnation that we are in. I am not in favour of the Assembly being one of the government's flow boilers in terms of passing, voting the law, but really measuring the rationality of the proposed laws. Therefore, all these criticisms directed towards the Assembly, that the Assembly is slowing down the adoption of the law, should still be put under the bat, because it is not a quantity but a matter of quality. For this reason, it cannot be denied the opposition to discuss, to submit amendments and to try to improve every law on the Assembly's agenda. Therefore, I confirm, the LDP will vote to adopt this law on changes and additions to the CAP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11288	Thank you. Mr Milos Aligrudic answered his words to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11289	Articles 225 and 226. About all this information we've heard and the public debates between the Chiefs of Staff, on the one hand, and on the other hand, which is somehow unwittingly or not knowing in what way it's advertised. What's that warning us? I don't know if the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee has already scheduled a session of the board, if not, should do so. This is a question, one, respect for the law. This state has laws regarding armed forces, armed forces represent a convincing physical force, which is why they are called weapons. That's why there's institutional civilian control over the armed forces. It's an institute that knows all democratic states. This country is trying to fully institutionalise something called civilian control of the armed forces. It's a matter of progress. What is under the Constitution and the law is an element of civil control, which is just a ministry, because the Ministry of Defence is a civilian institution. If these things happen, and if we hear about the endangerment of the functioning of the armed forces by someone who emerges from the armed forces themselves, we conclude that there may be a conflict between the channels of civil control over the armed forces, that is. The Ministry, on the one hand, and the armed forces, on the other hand, which are actually part of the system, and that's the first degree of control. Certainly, it is convenient and necessary to include the second degree of this control, which is the Assembly's Defence and Security Committee, because we cannot be out of the interest of what's going on here. So I'm not judging from what we heard here, but I'm saying that what we heard is negative, bad, that it's not good for a democratic state. I believe that MPs must be urgently familiar with the content of what is happening here and, above all, with the fact that something is hijacking civil control. That's what we're very interested in -- what's happening in our country's armed forces, how it works with this control, it's essential to us at this point. If these things get out of hand, then our troubles are bigger than anything we've talked about in the last months. If there is a problem, and obviously there is, because if it did not exist, we would not read anything in the newspaper or listen to it on TV, then that means that it should be responsible for the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, the one who is nominally leading, that is Mirko Cvetkovic, as prime minister of the government, and also the one who formally does not lead it, and essentially runs the Government of the Republic of Serbia, plays its spokesman and hidden boss, which is the president of the state, Boris Tadic. (President: Time.) Therefore, I ask you to respond here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid there's no time to waste in these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11290	Thank you. We could agree there's no time to lose. The unofficial information is that the Security Committee has been convened, and we will receive more precise information from the chairman of the Committee. The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11291	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, you are now in a very delicate situation. It has long been clear to the SRS that the government is not ready, capable, and that it has no capacity, which you liked to talk about, that it is doing what it is to do and to do what it is to do. In order not to be an expert public and to be very afraid of judges, I must say that the biggest dispersion in the legislation is in the area of this law, therefore, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. For what? Because we currently have two laws: the first law of 2001, which had five amendments; the second law was passed in 2006. Two amendments and additions laws have now come from the government, the first of December 8th and the second of December 17th, and therefore the answer to the former deputy of the Judges' Association, Judge Hadjiomerovic, that parliament has no responsibility for whether or not this law will apply. So, only December 17th came into the assembly procedure, where it is proposed to replace the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure with the words "31st of December", when it should take effect, with the words "July 1st 2010". Mr. Vice President, I must tell you to pass on to the president of Serbia and the prime minister that the SRS is "concerned" for European perspectives, again as you like to say, because this is the first legislative proposal where it does not say that we must hurry to adopt this law because of European integration. Of course, when I said we were worried, I also put in signs of quotes before and after that word. It is interesting, Madam Minister, that you are in this law, due to a lack of time, due to a large number of amendments to the Republic of Serbia's budget, so it cannot be considered now, but another law that will extend the deadline when the one from 2006 should enter into force. I can't believe that with such a negative relationship you're talking about this law, and that's also in the explanation and explanation for the adoption of this law, so it says, the solution so far has not been logical, the law is discriminatory. In the light of this law, which we received on December 8th, you added that there are technical pads, that there is a lot of illogicality, that it is discriminatory. I can't understand what this is about. There is no big difference between governments that have been since 2001 and to this day, because this is not just your position and your obligation. I need to be honest with you that the least of your responsibilities are personal for this part. But given that you worked as a State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and that you were in the Ministry of Justice and in 2001, then you had to know that the law that was proposed in 2006 and adopted in 2006 will not be easily applied and should not be played with the citizens of Serbia and also with the MPs. In the best way you can see, fellow MPs from the post, which can lead to your passive relationship. It would not surprise me at all if one of the vice-presidents of the government, because we had such a situation, said: unless this law was adopted in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, the government would bring the regulation, because we had already had the opportunity to hear it, concerning amendments and additions to the Law on Travel Documents, that the government would intervene with the regulation and would therefore act as citizens of Serbia. When adopting a bill of law in the government, you have to take a lot more care of what is applicable and what is possible. The Code of Prosecution is a procedural law, a law of procedural nature, where it regulates many details, and even directly affects the freedom of citizens, and freedom is one universal category and it applies to everything. And the Constitution in Article 27 says - the right to freedom, detention, it's all regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure. I will agree with my colleague, Petar Jojic, who, as an authorised representative of the SRS, spoke of this bill and said it was one very important and perhaps, after the constitution, the most important law. The SRS also believes that the model of this code clearly recognises the rights and freedoms of citizens of a state. Mr. Jojic best noted the relationship he should have with this code. The deadline you predicted I think that without any more serious analysis was given, but, well, to achieve some goal, to say that we delayed the application of that law, because none of those conditions, which should have been secured, that the prosecution would take over the conduct of the investigation, were secured. And we know that these are mostly personnel preparedness and training for that part, material, technical and other conditions, and I can tell you that in 2006, both judges and prosecutors, when getting to know this law, were concerned because the judges knew that their colleagues working as prosecutors were not qualified to conduct an investigation, and the prosecutors themselves knew that there was no time for them to take that part for the reasons mentioned above. The amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure are necessary, but a whole new code is passed. Are you ready and capable of it I don't know, but the SRS is, quite certainly and responsibly, capable of it. You predict here and effectively running a pre-cover procedure and a relatively short period of time to determine detention, and in practice we have a completely different situation. When SRS MPs submit amendments, not only to this one but to all the laws that come into this home, you easily go over it, and sometimes I think that trainees give opinions and read these amendments, because I can't understand that seriously, which doesn't mean that trainees are not serious, but it implies lack of sufficient level of profession, and then later it turns out that there are major problems in applying these laws. I only remember some statements by the current Supreme Court president, all what the SRS MPs indicate when holding a debate in principle, and also through amendments, after a few months or up to a year, point out this as a major problem. For a long time, we have been discussing previous drafts of law also from the field of justice, and I think that understanding of the MPs, who support this government, is completely missing from the citizens, as well as from the honest and good judges and prosecutors. We know because SRS MPs come from large and small towns and villages, and we live with the citizens of Serbia, and we know what their problems are, and here we express the need for their problems to be solved in the best way, and the Law on Criminal Procedure is a very important law, where only the conditions provided for can be limited and some rights concerning the rights and freedoms of men who are foreseen by the Constitution and many of them can be applied directly. The application of a number of constitutional provisions on human rights can only be limited to some laws, including the Code of Criminal Procedure, under certain conditions may be limited to those rights and I hope, Madam Minister, that you will have a break, the truth shorter than some others have, but after that, it will be nice, apply to a more serious job and that a completely new and quality criminal code is done, because these amendments you have proposed, as well as the 2006 law, are not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11292	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11293	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. To remind me, in May 2006, the Criminal Procedure Act, which in its article 555, said it would apply from 1 June 2007, to extend the deadline to 31.12.2008 by law on amendments and amendments to the law. In this draft law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure in Article 555, the words "December 31st 2008" are predicted to replace the words "July 1st 2010" for the reason that no material and technical conditions were created. A group that will deal with the drafting of the Code of Criminal Procedure will have a really big and difficult task ahead of them. We have seen and fully agree that the Code of Criminal Procedure falls within the order of perhaps the most important laws, belongs to laws that are within the ranks of the Constitution, so that this group that will deal with the making of this law on criminal proceedings will face a number of things that need to be resolved. As a result, our view that a complete law on criminal proceedings, rather than going through partial amendments to certain provisions of the law, may be necessary. We see from this proposal for a law on criminal proceedings, which you have submitted before this motion to amend the law, some of the solutions that you have made in this proposal to amend the law on criminal proceedings, which relate to certain matters relating to the Supreme Casation Court, where you are actually predicting that the case before the Supreme Cassation Court will be conducted without judges of the jury. I assume that such changes will also be in the new law on criminal proceedings, so that the group that deals with this change will stand at the same point of view and will propose the same solution. I think this is a questionable solution and the question is why you are now suddenly predicting that there are no jury judges in the Supreme Cassation Court proceedings. In all the explanations given earlier by this and the previous authorities, you said that judges are necessary, especially in this court as the last court case, in the highest and last court case, after which there are no legal remedies. The proponent's explanation that it has been estimated that the judge's presence is intrinsically unsatisfactory. It is certainly not necessary to fear certain legal regulations and certain laws, for there is one saying that the law is afraid of the guilty, and innocent is only fate. Another newspaper that will be preceded by a group that will work on draft law on criminal proceedings is that the newspaper says that the defender can be posted with a prisoner without the supervision of an investigative judge. In view of the fact that the conversation between the defenders and the detainees is not to be tapped. The explanation given in the previous bill is that it is in line with international legal standards. However, this is simply not true. It was fairer to call on something else, for example the freedom of detainees or other things, than to talk about international legal standards, because this issue in international law has been resolved in an extremely selective way. There are many examples of this claim. When you refer to international standards, do you know that these standards are absolutely not applied in The Hague? Do you know the rights of Hague prisoners, especially the rights of Dr. Vojislav Seselj on this matter? Did you know that all the written documents that go to him or from him are strictly controlled and that all his phone conversations are tapped? So when you give an explanation that this is in line with international legal standards, it's really a little bit and cynical, in principle all that's foreign is better than domestic. However, all these regulations that you've brought before these and probably that you'll bring after these have a foothold in that kind of greed that precedes that basic greed for money, which is political-legal greed, I'd say, or greed for power. I'd like to give you a heads-up on one of the finals saying, "The camel has lost its ears by wanting horns." You should always take care of this in all these solutions. Moreover, the third newspaper to appear in front of a group to amend and supplement this Code of Criminal Procedure is also a matter of criminal offences of organised crime, corruption and other extremely criminal acts. It is certain that these questions will be raised before this group and that because of these facts and that these crimes will in fact have their specific weight, as well as organised conduct, and also carry a particular social danger, special attention should be paid to this chapter. It is certain that these crimes will include the crime of serious murder, kidnapping, robbery, extortion, counterfeiting of money, where some of you are real masters, money laundering, false bankruptcy, where you are also masters, human trafficking, terrorist financing and other serious crimes. Indeed, without considering what solutions will be made by the new law on criminal proceedings, and also by not reevaluating the implementation of this new law on criminal proceedings, which will probably take place after 1 July 2010, practice teaches us simply that everything you do is a verse, by order, known by whom, and this management of yours in fact reminds you of that ship that sails without compass. We know that who doesn't know which port he sails to, no wind suits him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11294	Thank you. Mr Dragan Todorovic reported on his words under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 27 to warn the public of Serbia that by the Chief of Staff, the Constitution, its 141st member, who says - Serbia's army is under democratic and civilian control. Serbia's army is governed by law. What General Ponoš did in the most obvious way is that the military is completely out of civilian control, or control of this Parliament. It is under someone's control, but not under the control of the Serbian parliament, not under the control of the Ministry of Defence, but someone outside these circles. It's probably been influenced by a lot of people. I was already saying, as soon as the NGOs started, who could be behind it. That's why I tried to schedule a session of the Defence and Security Committee. I thought the session was held at 15.00 hours. However, from both cabinets and cabinets, the answers arrived that they could not arrive at 15.00 hours. They didn't say when I could, but I'm going to officially schedule a session of the Committee tomorrow in 1200 hours, so we can try to get some information that's connected to what's happening to us. It is particularly interesting that the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic reacts to such a harsh violation of the Constitution as if nothing had happened. The Chief of Staff cancels direct obedience to the minister and the defence ministry, even ordering generals not to go to the celebration, even schedules a college at a time when the minister was due to receive a prize. The question arises whether the minister should have given any reward, which is why he is responsible, etc. Putting aside what the Chief of Staff is doing here is important. For all of this, Boris Tadic literally combs himself, stands in front of the mirror," he doesn't care and says – if they have any concept differences, they need to agree between themselves, and if they can't agree, then Boris Tadic will take command in his own hands, and then he will handle it. It speaks of the fact that Boris Tadic has also brutally trampled the constitution, that he too does not respect parliament, that he does not respect the laws, and we all know that Chief of Staff Zvonko Ponosa directly brought Boris Tadic. Among other things, and because of other problems, i.e. the violation of the constitution by Boris Tadic, we are very close to starting the procedure for his shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11296	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. I deeply hope that tomorrow's session of the Committee will be extremely important not only, but also held. I give the word to Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really hard to talk about a law that's on the day-to-day at a time when these things happen in the country, especially when they happen in so-called. The forces of power, therefore, the military and the police, because this may have unseen consequences. But let's get back to this job. First, as MPs, we have been severely affected by the certain behaviour of certain means of public information aimed at criticising parliament, because the laws, according to them, do not bring to parliament the speed they would like, and blame all the blame on parliament. At the same time, we know that our budget has been delayed for a month and a half, that many of the legal projects that we are being blamed for have not yet reached parliament, so here and here this law has arrived 17.12, today is on the agenda, we have respected the need for the Justice Ministry to meet that of 31.12. It is simply impossible for this law to start on 1 January, this law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would ask the Prime Minister or the President of the State to find a sponsor and provide all the ministries with calendars, because this is not about an hour or two, but about days, and they would have to take care of that, because we had a chance to discuss the laws that should have taken effect a month ago than it came to parliament three months ago than it came to parliament. Remember, we recently discussed laws that should have taken effect two months earlier, and came to parliament two months later. No elemental conditions for the implementation of this law have been met. It's a good thing the law unites the entire system of jobs. For example, the prosecution investigation must be a good move and that in one place of knowledge, from tip-off, from application, to the end of the process to be handled from one center, from one office, from one office to another. But conditions have not been met, neither technical, nor material, nor procedural, nor procedural, especially the conditions of staff, especially the conditions of space. So we have prosecutions, courts that work in extremely bad conditions. The new law on courts will only bring specific problems in implementation, i.e. in the work of these prosecutors and courts, because only in Belgrade, where five, as I recall, will all be packed in two basic courts, one for urban municipalities, one for suburban municipalities. To remind the MPs and the public that even now there are many unresolved problems in front of the judges, many and insolvent problems because of other things that are not of jurisdiction, and it is not the Ministry's fault, but it is someone's fault in this country. When all of this is now packed into one pile and you have staff all in one place, when you have the President of the Court, who will run with several hundred judges, I'm talking about the First Basic Court in Belgrade with two or three hundred judges, and with several hundred associates, trainees, etc., you have an entire army under one man. How will he control the execution of the affairs of his judges, that is now a special question? On the other hand, this man is given an incredibly great importance, and he is equating himself with the highest figures of power in this country. It's the same with the DA's office. What is not sufficiently defined in the prosecution's investigation, is not defined enough by law and cannot be applied in practice, which is - that the investigation begins, that at the same time you have some ingenuity that the police themselves can conduct in the course of the investigation, not even informing the prosecution. It is good, on this side, that the man who will lead from the beginning, from the investigation to the verdict, should be involved in this case and to the end to carry it out. On the other hand, human resources problems in courts, you, Mrs. Malovic, know very well that you have a situation where you have competitions for judges, for prosecutors, that politics often goes ahead of professions. You come into a situation where he was elected to you as the deputy prosecutor or judge of a man who was the secretary of elementary school or who was the secretary of the farmers of the cooperative. He passed a judicial exam at the time, but he didn't need it at all, and now he's coming into a new environment, with a whole new job, and he's literally learning how interns are taught, when they come to court or to the prosecution. Our judiciary had good practice, because both the judiciary and the judge's and the prosecution's functions are in the middle of the trade. It had good practice to take quality and mostly high-quality and finished students and to train them and prepare them. Afterwards, such people came to the judiciary and to the prosecution - high-quality judges and prosecutors, or the deputy prosecutors. The court's capacity, I'm talking about courts in Belgrade, is unsatisfactory. On the other hand, the state of Serbia, there is also in Belgrade, the state of Serbia has plenty of space left empty, untapped. These are the four banks Dinkic destroyed. Their capacities are untapped. We have a former SIV building, so SIV1, SIV2 and SIV3, and there's a lot that's being leased, which is going to say, in the arena, and that this very important and very important role has no capacity. What's very important, it's the conformity of the law with the Constitution. Today I heard criticism about the need to change the Constitution, because the Constitution is not good, and I am sorry that this criticism came from some people I considered to be, I believe, even now, that they are qualified lawyers - because it does not change the constitution when the law does not comply with the Constitution, but it changes the law. The constitution is the supreme, i.e. the first legal act in one country. Not if something peeks outside the constitutional framework to extend the Constitution, but to amend the law. Therefore, this law will also have to be harmonised in those parts where it does not comply, with the constitution, it must be harmonised. The previous Code, which we are only changing, is in the extremes of some previous laws, amassed by some parts of the laws of the environment and the EU, and therefore mainly some of the norms that are thus prescribed into this law are inapplicable. So cosmetic changes are just, and nothing really changes. This is just an attempt to comply with the current situation in the judiciary and does not solve the underlying problem. The basic problem in this country is a new modern criminal code, which you must bring. This will hold water, they say, for some period, but the state of Serbia, the Serbian judiciary needs a new, completely new, modern, criminal code. Mr Petar Jojic said well - take the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was working with the SRS expert team, in collaboration with the country's top experts, with the country's highest legal mind at the time, align it, it is much easier to bring it into line with the current situation, because it referred to the federal republic, only to change the parts that applied to that part - he immediately becomes a modern criminal code. I hope that as soon as the New Year is over, Mrs Malovic will start preparing the criminal code, and the legal experts of the SRS will be at her disposal to help her prepare the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11298	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting again under Rule 27. I would also like to address the minister of justice, as the minister of justice has also been called on to assess this situation which is related to the problem between the Chiefs of Staff and the Ministry of Defence, or I can say freely - that the problem with the entire government is. I'm just amazed that you're all listening calmly -- like it's some local community, so the secretary and president of the local community got into a fight whether to put benches in the park or not. We have a really amazing situation here. I don't remember, I really don't remember in these 20 years that we had a similar situation. Look, you have a statement from the Chief of Staff who also says "Hello" - I will not stand by and watch Serbia's Army collapse. If someone says so, it is logical to conclude that they will try to do so in another way. The other way is - if you don't want to calm down, then you'll do it with force. Because he obviously has no intention of doing it through the government at all. He doesn't care about civilian control. He didn't inform parliament about it. He makes statements through newspapers and places his opinion. Be careful what the Chief of Staff says, this is the most difficult charge on the government's account - due to poor defence policy and extensive understanding of the relationship to the budget, for the operational life of the military in 2009 we will only be left with 5% of the resources. That means our artilleryman won't be able to fire his missile. Only in the easy ignoring of course differences have we lost 400 million dinars. Is there more serious charges for this government than this statement by the Chief of Staff? Do you think the Department of Defense is segregated and that it does not represent the government? This is the most difficult accusation that could have been made. Keep an eye on it, it says - the defence policy here doesn't work, just symbolically, it would say it doesn't exist; we're in the circumstances of a state that doesn't have a national security strategy, so according to that, or a defence strategy. We're a state with no defense and a question about why? Because of incompetence, irresponsibility, incompetence and arrogance. This can't end like this. The public and citizens of Serbia need to know what is behind this. How is it even possible that the Chief of Staff with this kind of information comes out? I'm finishing up, but my people understand how serious this is. What does this look like? You are the minister of justice, tell me on the basis of which law the Chief of Staff comes out with such information both about the government and the Ministry. Even if he's 100 percent right, I believe he's right, but it's inappropriate. We're building a situation here to bring the military junta to power. Not to read you the other facts about whether the Ministry of Defense, past the military, is preparing for some other activity by the number of colonels he has in relation to the General Staff, by the number of generals, etc. You have to react. You must go out with information to the citizens of Serbia. I apologize for this overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11300	If I understand, the question is addressed to the Ministry of Defence in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so I would ask the service to deliver a stenogram with both of your questions to the Ministry of Defence in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government and the Ministry, asking them to answer both questions urgently, and to come to the Committee tomorrow, because they will be called. The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11301	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we were a serious state, if by any chance the Russian Duma, we, all 250, had come to this House, would have expressed our disdain for the conduct of the Chief of Staff, and would have requested that the President of the Republic, the Minister of Defence and General Ponish come here, and one of them would have to bear responsibility for this situation. However, I would like to warn you that this is not an accident. There's no coincidence. This is a very synchronised action, starting with that statement by Wardsworth that national political parties are disturbing political life in Serbia, referring to the SRS and the DSS. Then, a coincidence with Parliament's position on the illegality of the Assembly and the stolen mandates in parliament, which means that a political scene in this country is creating someone else, not ourselves, because we are all deeply aware that we have here a parliamentary group that cannot sit there because it did not go to the elections. At the same time, a gas agreement is being attacked, a direct finger is being placed around the Russian Federation, even though we voted here most of the time and made a decision to verify the agreement. We're doing something at the expense of our own damage. We accuse Russia, or accuse ourselves, of making some concessions to Russia for keeping her side in the Security Council and, in general, in international relations with KIM. No, it's a replacement thesis. We are paying the bill with our own behaviour to Western forces, above all the United States, Great Britain, and the EU as a whole, by selling out everything we could sell, or indelicately, our entire wealth, the example of Sartide, in order to show how condescending we are. I would like to warn you that what is happening at the Ministry of Defense and this public conflict, and this is not the way it should happen, although there are some elements of disagreement, is a clear threat from General Ponos, and that has its own name and it's called a military coup.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11302	The word is by MP Petar Jojic according to the Rules of Procedure, so Mr Dragan Stevanovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11303	Members of Parliament, what can be read and learned in public information means is directly aimed at undermining the military security and security of a country, i.e. our countries specifically. If the Chief of Staff says - if it's not in the budget so many millions of dinars, the army won't have a bullet to fire. It is a message to our enemies that we are a nation that has no defense of the land, nor has an army capable of defending it at all times. Requesting notice, within the meaning of the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at which command posts was General, or Chief of General Staff now Ponoš Zdravko? On what duties did he spend it, so he came and jumped like a bird, by a sergeant or a captain at once to be Chief of Staff? Do you know how many generals and officers who have completed several military academys and high military academys who could not, because they were not party and political members of the ruling coalition, to come to the post, honorably and responsibly, to be Chief of Staff? There are hundreds of such colonels and generals. Why is this happening to us? Because we don't have a law on foreign NGOs, and you can see that they are now supporting Zdravko Pogoša by NGOs and NGOs in our country. This is a disaster. This is exactly the notification of our traditional enemies that Serbia no longer has an army. Traditionally, Serbia, known throughout history, has passed successfully, its army and three empires have been thrown to its knees. Would you like to keep Zdravko Ponoš at the head of the General Staff? He can't be Chief of Staff anymore. He has to be moved. Just make sure he was a water commander, a company commander, a battalion commander, a regiment commander, a commander of the Corps, a brigade, and come all of a sudden for Chief of Staff. How did he come at that speed and from the captain was promoted to the rank of colonel general? It's incomprehensible. Who could have done that? Only Zhukov, who fought against fascists and enemies for five years, could have come that way and at that speed to the generals and the marshals. Therefore, Zdravko Ponos cannot be Chief of General Staff. Serbia does not deserve such a chief, such an outlaw. He went rogue and he was thrown into the political arena. NGOs have nothing to look for. They will raise their hands from the security authorities and from Serbia's army.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11304	Please, without diminishing the importance of this question in any way, nor the right to ask questions and to use the rights that the Rules of Procedure allows us, my request is directed, above all, because of the condition, the beautiful one, in which Mrs Malović and the requests are located, if we can, in the coming time finish this item of the agenda, and I am good to you that after the break we will continue where we left off. Mr. Dragan Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, our intention is not to place the burden of responsibility, i.e. the irresponsibility that the ruling majority shows in relation to the very important and important issues on you. I also understand your need to protect the representatives of the ministry, however, we would like to take advantage of the representatives of the government in this building, in this house, and possibly use their authority to get answers to some questions that are objectively needed not only by parliamentarians, but also by the public as well. We can't close our eyes to the fact that this will cause certain negative reactions in public. We cannot be indifferent when someone says this is a black hole of democracy or power in Serbia, without simply not being ready to find a way to get answers to such difficult, essential and serious questions. This morning, speaking of Wardsworth, looking for answers because of his statements and performances, I tried to challenge and awaken responsibility, at least I made some contribution to the whole story, but the responsibility is objectively lagging behind. It's all quiet and there's no answer. Foreign citizens, representatives of the British state are interfering with the internal opportunities of this country. There is no adequate response from this country. At least the answer we get, so let's say, there's something present, part of the responsibility. Let's leave the Wardsworth side now. Here you have a conflict in one ministry, in one government, in one area, two men. I think the essence of the problem here in this sentence, in this statement, is that the weight and the problem is the biggest here. This is not a two-person conflict, it's two concepts. One ministry, one government, one state, two concepts in defence policy. Don't ask and expect us to keep this quiet, with all due respect and to you, the obligations and the work you do. We are looking for answers -- what is the concept, what is the defence policy of this state, the one represented by the Democratic Party, Dragan Sutanovac, or the policy represented by Zdravko Ponos? The irony and absurdity of everything that is Zdravko Ponos is the choice of the Democratic Party, Boris Tadic and Dragan Sutanovac. And as citizens above all, and then as MPs, we are objectively not obliged to be victims of a conflict that exists within the ruling majority. (President: Time.) That's why we're asking you to use your authority and you and Madam Minister and get the answers we're looking for and about what's going on in the area of defense in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11306	Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 27. Mr. Novakovic, I'd like you to do this and I think you realize how important this is. That all these allegations brought out by the SRS are absolutely accurate are all the information they could have come to, among other things, in the paper. You know, it's been talked about before, not that you don't know what this is about, this is a serious conflict within the Democratic Party between Boris Tadic and Dragan Sutanovac, there is no dilemma here. What's the problem? Which puts an internal conflict between the two personalities seriously at risk to the state, in the most serious danger. That's what you say here. It says - speculation has reached such a situation, Serbian President Boris Tadic is also being introduced in the story. He is, according to the allegations, via General Ponos, trying to check the strength of the Democratic Party's vice president. You watch what the Democratic Party does. She's not interested in the state, she's not interested in citizens, she's not interested in one of the most important segments of this country, and that's the military, defense of the state. They only care about the internal party, who is stronger in the Democratic Party, who will win. He says, from the circles of a party close to Sutanovac, it is obvious that there are several circles or clans within the Democratic Party, one is Bojan Pajtic, there are more, but these are two certainly for now, he says, close to Sutanovac, says that now it is time to pack an affair with the defence minister's tenders. So you know everything and you sit tight and shut up. What happens if Posh doesn't make it this way? That we're expecting tanks. But beware, who has the opportunity to be informed of all this and to know all the facts. He says -- Zoran Dragisic, a military analyst, is in daily contact with the Ministry of Defence, as well as with the Serbian Army, and he says that despite everything, fortunately, the conflict still has no reflection on the normal functioning of the system. My people, is this possible? Zoran Dragisic? I think he's a member of some NGO, too. I hear he may have started a party now. Parliament does not have one single piece of information about this, and it is in daily contact with both the Ministry and the Army. (President: Time, Mr. Todorovic. What kind of country do we live in, my people? Who is Zoran Dragisic? Who's he representing? Whose service? Whose country? And we sit still, and you sit still, you don't care what happens, it's important to stay in power at all costs, to accuse the radicals... (President: half a minute. ..to say whether it's time or not, and what the situation is going to be, you don't care at all. Thank you, and I'm sorry that I've been out of line for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11308	Based on article 85, I'm setting a break of one hour. Have a good one. We'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. The first is Mr. Jadranko Vukovic and Momir Markovic. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Good afternoon, we'll continue our afternoon work where we left off. Mr. Jadranko Vukovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry it's empty, this joke, we're talking serious stuff. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226. I join the discussions of my colleagues, of course, headed by Mr. Todorovic, who is the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, whose member I am. On this occasion, I warn the Serbian government that Dragan Sutanovac, as defence minister, is not directly subject to Tadic, but to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Parliament. Secondly, Tadic is only in charge of the military and when it comes to commanding, under the Constitution, you will see that if you have a Constitution and is not in charge of defending the country. The defense of the country is a broader concept. It is also not competent to adopt regulations that fall within the Parliament's legislative activity, which means that it is exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Serbian and National Assembly. Chief of Staff, according to the new defense system, only one segment of the defense belongs, and that's the army and nothing else. He's also subordinated to the defence minister. What is most important in the case of General Zdravko Ponos, the Department of Information of the Ministry of Defence is only competent to make statements, not Chief of Staff Zdravko Ponos. So, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, this is about direct insubordination in the defence system. So, the defense system is one whole, Zdravko Ponos is one segment, we said the army. He canceled someone's obedience. Dragan Todorovic is not here, but I will say publicly, he asked the Defence and Security Committee to meet. Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, we must not party, we should meet during today's night. I think this is a very important issue and that the citizens of Serbia know who in this Serbia, which is so threatened, you know where -- in Kosovo and Metohija, they want the rest of Serbia to jeopardize, too, to see what this is all about. So I'm asking that we meet today and I'm asking the board president to insist that we meet today and discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11311	The word is by MP Momir Markovic, who points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has never been in a more difficult situation than the one in which it is today. The reason is very simple. What is happening at the Ministry of Defence, what is happening in the military, with the military and around the Serbian Army, is that everyone who thinks about this country is concerned. At the time, as a student, I studied military junta, causes and reasons, and it just fits into the cube of what was happening where military junte came to power with what is currently going on here. What's the reason? An argument within a party in power must not put the state at risk. An argument within a party in power, the uproaring of some of the party's leaders, threatens to put the state of Serbia into a bloody mess that would probably be long gone. The fact that foreign intelligence services have long been uninterrupted with Serbia, Serbia and around Serbia, the military, the military and the military, to prepare some kind of terrain that can result in a bloody military junta or a bloody civil war should not be neglected. People's MPs, as the electors of the people, regardless of which parliamentary lists, from which they are political parties, must respond at this time. The president of the Security Committee cannot be allowed to call a meeting without two key figures canceling and saying "we don't know when we're going to, we can't now". What are they up to? Come to your senses, people. The democracy you're talking about is at stake in Serbia right now. The freedom we're all talking about is at stake in Serbia right now. The state of Serbia, which we are talking about, is currently at risk in Serbia. There is no law to be discussed by MPs, while such things are being prepared or already happening in Serbia. If we had a responsible president of the state, the moment he found out, he'd have to come back and be here at the head of state. If we had a responsible minister, he shouldn't let this happen to him at the General Staff. The Chief of Staff must account for the citizens of Serbia, the MPs. By the way, when someone is elected Chief of Staff, when someone is elected on such a high military duty, his data is checked to the tenth knee. Ask if the story is true that he's a brother-in-law of one of the presidents of a criminal organization who, unfortunately, now already has a claim to create a state in the territory where she committed crimes. I'll just give you some approximate data. That's the man that some high-ranking officials of this country met at airports around here, in the fog, so they barely recognized each other, so this army leader, and this president. What is now happening in Serbia has long been prepared both from the outside and from the inside. We, Serbian radicals, demand that everything else be put into another plan in parliament and that this be discussed urgently. The situation is too serious for us to be able to do this casually... (President: Time. ) and non-chalantly to behave, I conclude, that we have 15 or 20 MPs of the ruling structure now in parliament. It's very serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11313	Mrs. Veronica Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the SRS today tried to impose a topic, and above all to inform the public about some of the dangerous things that are happening in Serbia. One is British Ambassador Wardsworth's statements regarding his attempt to influence internal political events in Serbia. The second topic is internal problems in the DS, i.e. specific problems between Tadic and Minister Sutanovac, who, due to General Ponoš's involvement, in the way we in the SRS spoke today, can have very dangerous repercussions across the state of Serbia. After these discussions, which were really on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, we now move on to the law on changes to the CAP. I initially said this on purpose, since I am convinced that our work today has been followed very much by the citizens of Serbia, precisely because of the topics we talked about. That's why I thought I needed to say we're on the agenda right now. The bill on amendments to the CAP is another law that comes here as a consequence of the fact that Wardsworth, Manter, Cobel, and other white-world officials, who are here in the roles of ambassadors, are giving us the agenda of parliament. Why did I mention them? Because all this talk about the British ambassador started right after he allowed himself the luxury of commenting that the Serbian parliament is not working effectively enough in its taste, because, as he said, SRS and DS MPs have a special strategy which, in his opinion, stops, or delays the work of this parliament. That's when he said how much of the law in this House needed to be passed, as much as we did. None of the officials in Serbia and none of the ruling coalition found it appropriate to comment on it. In this House, we can discuss whether we are effective enough or not, we can suffer criticism from the Serbian citizens who sent us to parliament. We can discuss with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the President of the Republic, with all the factors in Serbia, but with some Wardsworth, whether we in this Parliament are effective or not, it is really if we are serious people and if we are the most legislative body, and by the Constitution we are, we should never allow ourselves. Since you like to listen to those and those, then we now have an interesting budget problem. You are trying to draw attention to the public with some story that we from the opposition parties are responsible for why the budget of the Republic of Serbia will not be possible within the time limit provided for by the Constitution and which is foreseen by our Rules of Procedure. You're trying to draw attention to a large number of amendments, then if we were a constructive opposition and if we gave up the amendment, then you could bring the budget in time. For Serbia's public now, I want to explain why Serbia will not have a budget. First, because this is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia truly wants. Perhaps you in the ruling coalition in the Assembly don't want to, and without the intention of offending you, don't think seriously enough about it, so you didn't put the dice together, so you don't understand. I'll explain it to everyone who doesn't understand. The government of the Republic of Serbia was obliged to adopt the budget proposal at the government on 1 November after the budget calendar. The government did it on December 6th or 7th, so 40 days later. The MPs received a draft budget on December 8th, and at the time we already had a session that was planned and you adopted it with 14 agenda points. So all this was continued, agreed between those who determine the agenda and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You knew, when you predicted that we had a 14-point agenda, that it was impossible, even if we had won the budget the other day and earlier, it was impossible to adopt the budget. If it had been good will and had been intended to bring the budget of the Republic of Serbia, then at that session, for example, which we finished the other day, we would have had only judicial laws, it would have been completed in about ten days. During that period, the government, again late because the session began on November 5th, would adopt the budget, but there were delays by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has prepared for temporary financing to ensure that citizens of Serbia, those receiving salaries or compensation, social benefits, pensions, etc. from the budget, after the New Year's, they said the opposition was responsible because you can't pay off all those budget commitments. That's not true. If you wanted to bring the budget and with all these delays, here's a constructive proposal for you, you tell us -- pull the amendments, and we tell you -- adopt all amendments. Then you can vote on the budget again. Yesterday I hear one of the heads of the ruling coalition's parliamentary group, I don't want to mention the name, because I don't want to cause replicas, the Assembly can work on December 30th. Mr. Krassic, welcome. Mr. Krasic came from The Hague, from visiting Mr. Seselj. So we can't do it on December 30th, not because we in the SRS won't do it, but because we insist on respecting the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause SRS]] This session and this regular session must end on December 29th at midnight. Everything after that is unconstitutional. We will not allow this House to work unconstitutionally. You've been trying for days to impose the force of the majority, to you in some ways and succeeds, you're passing laws against which you're alone, but of course one day everyone will be responsible for their actions, mostly politically. That is why we want to do everything in accordance with the law, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Why did I need this introduction? Simply because it is manipulated in the media, and those controlled by the government of the Republic of Serbia, it has been manipulated for days that the opposition is responsible because Serbia will not get the budget. One more thing, if there were intelligence and goodwill in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we were able to adopt all these accompanying laws in this period by December 29th with the budget and that you have normal conditions to fill the budget as early as January 1st and bring the budget again too late, because you will certainly bring it in late. You who often talk about how much opposition MPs spend people's money because they speak from this place, which we don't, of course never accept, feel free to say the full amount of time that the Rules of Procedure allows you, we will never object to you from the SRS to cost someone, because democracy costs, citizens know that, citizens, like all of us, wanted democracy. Of course, that's what we have to put up with. But you try every time to turn the water on your own well and turn the blame on someone else. Another information for the citizens of Serbia, and related to the budget. The government's decision to make on temporary financing does not mean that any group financed from the budget and anything financed from the budget can be threatened in any way. So, anything that after 1 January, respected citizens of Serbia, speak to you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia - and there is no increase in pensions, and there is no social giving, maternity, health pay, education, etc. - all of you lie, remember that today. Why did I mention at the beginning and Wardsworth, and how he's proposing a agenda? Here, it's one of those laws that someone once had to put on the agenda. We from the SRS, all colleagues remember, and you on this side, there were plenty of you at that time, too, of the MPs, as well as of us, and you remember how much we turned our attention and said that the Code of Criminal Procedure, as you bring, is inconclusive in Serbia, that you have no conditions to implement it. On the side of our programming disagreement with that law, that's something you don't have to accept, but learn once we tell you that you're passing an inapplicable law, that you'll eventually be in this situation where you are now, that me or any of us Serbian radicals remind you of that, you brought something, you knew in advance that it couldn't be applied. We've talked to you in the last few days, you've passed a famous law on lustration and on a network of courts, I'm speaking names that are already up among Serbian citizens, and they're not the real titles of the law. And then we spoke, I told Mrs. Malovic, in a joke I said - would you bet, Madam Minister, that neither law nor law will you be able to apply? Of course, it will not be possible to apply these laws, as we said neither will the Code of Criminal Procedure. Here, today, we are wasting our time discussing this law, as we spent a few days discussing the budget, and we will have to do all "Jovo again" from New Year's Eve, because an extraordinary session is coming, and I need to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia. So today we have a bill that only has two members. Someone who's not a lawyer could do what he has to say, just ask for an extension, so let's extend the deadline. No, this is what we have to talk about. Article 1 The bill says - in the Code of Criminal Procedure, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 46/06 and 46/07, in article 555, the words "31 December 2008" are replaced by the words "July 1st 2010". So, you've already changed this law, which was passed in 2006, changed in 2007. This is the third shift. You predicted in that basic law that it would apply on 31 December 2008. Here's December 31st in front of the door. What is the condition, gentlemen of the ruling majority, Mrs Malovic, I know that she listens to me up at the MP's club and there's no provoking at all why she's not here, she always answers all our questions neatly, but here's a question -- which of the conditions is fulfilled so that this law could be applied on December 31st, 2008? It's not a single one. Wouldn't you agree, Mr. Cossic? Not a single law, from rooms to personnel solutions, to laws that should have been brought into line with the Constitution, and under the Constitutional Law, you have not fulfilled a single condition for two years to apply this law. You are now proposing to extend this deadline to July 1st, 2010. Since you claimed and swore here that these laws, which are very bad, which we passed last week, which is what you brought with the help of two government assistants, I mean two parliamentary groups, one real and one illegal, so you swore, when you passed those laws, that they would come into force on 1 January 2010. If you are so sure, then accept our amendment, because we have said that this deadline to extend the Code of Criminal Procedure from 1 July 2010 to 1 March 2010, because I assume from today, or from the day this law is passed, you will not sleep in the Government until the day of its application, you will work to create conditions for the application of this law. If these, which we have already talked about, will be safe in force on 1 January 2010, then there is no rational reason not to complete those conditions in three months which you will in the meantime create for the application of this law. So here's a proposal to accept that amendment. Article 2 of this law says: "This law enters into force on 30 December 2008. Can anyone explain to me how tricks this law can take effect on December 30th, unless you withdraw the budget, unless you move the agenda. How do you think, today is December 24th, we discuss it, tomorrow is a work day, but the agreement in the Assembly is that it is not working, and that the amendments could not be discussed, because according to the Rules of Procedure, it has to be 24 hours. So it's simply physically impossible to do this in order for this law to enter into force on December 30th. Of course, we have suggested what is in accordance with the Constitution, that the law enter into force on the eighth day of publication. That's our amendment. Let's just see what the government thinks. Why did you insist on December 30th? Because you, ladies and gentlemen, this will be the third time that the judiciary in Serbia will bring one general collapse. Someone here today said that since January 1st, they won't have anyone to investigate because this law won't come into force, one can't apply, one you gave us and then pulled. So, general chaos and general papaziania in the judiciary, and it's no wonder that both judges behave like that, both prosecutors and judicial employees. The most ideal judge, the most ideal prosecutor, in the conglomerate of these regulations that you've brought in over the last few years, can't really get by, even if he's an expert on experts. We listen today to Mrs Malovic explaining why he was withdrawn from the procedure another set of laws, including the proposal to amend the criminal code, not the one with two members, but the one with some slightly more serious changes. Mrs Malovic says the government has withdrawn the proposal because of the assembly's overload. First of all, that's not true. Second, let the government do its job and let the government bury the congregation with suggestions, and then we will be responsible for why we did something or didn't do it. But Mrs Malovic herself says in three sentences afterwards how bad the law that was withdrawn from the procedure is, therefore, not because the Assembly is overloaded, but because Mrs Malovic, her ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia think it is a bad law. So then said Mrs Malovic, who are all the shortcomings of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that it is a controversial initiation of the investigation, that there are technical discrepancies in the law, that there are contradictory provisions, so all that did not talk about details, but I am convinced that at least 90% of what we have, in our time, drawn attention to contradictory provisions, precisely technical shortcomings that will lead to the inapplicability of the law and these are the real reasons. And indeed the most sincere plea to the representatives of the government, do not draw attention to anyone else, do not blame the MPs, do not blame parliament for what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is obviously not capable, and it is not. If it were, we wouldn't have at least once a month some law that's a bill on amendments and additions to a law, and that law has two members, one of which is -- it's moving the deadline, the second one -- it's going to take effect that day and that day. When we do an analysis, and first of all we will do it for the public and for the attempt to clear the work of parliament, especially the MPs of the opposition, we will do that analysis, and the citizens of Serbia will see how the government of the Republic of Serbia works, because the bill only requires the move of the deadline of application of the law only speaks in favour of our claim that we have an incompetent, irresponsible and harmful government. It's a fact and we need to talk about it openly. Mrs Malovic said again that she said she had withdrawn a set of laws due to the overloading of the Assembly, but three sentences afterwards said she had formed a new working group and that only the new working group would do the new text of the criminal code. We're not talking about what's waiting for us, what's this text going to be, etc., but the point is that we've had one drastic problem since 2000, which leads to serious disturbances in the functioning of the state, and all governments are DOS, from 2000 to today, are all DOS governments, in this form or in that form. One government proposes to the Assembly, one congregation majority passed the law, the other assembly majority came with a brand-new concept proposing either serious and extensive changes and additions of that law or a whole new law, and again we have some waiting, some period until the law is applied, to the creation of conditions, and so come the third, and so on. It's something that makes the citizens of Serbia suffer. These days, a newspaper reported that this law must be changed because of a process against Miladin Kovacevic. I'm just going to do a few things to power up from this obviously political process, and it's really unserious and irresponsible from the Foreign Ministry that until today, they haven't solved the problem of Miladin Kovacevic, that this boy and today are afraid that someone will be accompanied by cameras, TV B 92, as they kidnapped him outside his house and brought him to Belgrade, and there's no legal basis for that. So today, he's afraid that something like this can happen to him, but who knows, not only to be brought to Belgrade, but perhaps across the ocean, because it's actually the intensity and demand of Hillary Clinton, who unfortunately tends to please those who are in power today in Serbia. The proceedings against Miladin Kovacevic were politically mounted, and his detention between December 10th and 15th was without a legal basis, it is claimed in his parents' complaint. What they claim is absolutely true and every average lawyer in Serbia knows it, let alone a good lawyer or a good lawyer, they might know it too. As an argument from the Miladin Kovacevic family, his parents point out that the process contrary to the ZKP provisions began in Belgrade, which is also true. The trial in Belgrade seemed more politically comprehensive, more challenging and controlled by certain political actors more accessible, they said in a complaint and claimed that the procedure could not be associated with the cases of Consul Slobodan Nenadovic and Vice-consul Igor Milosevic. Mr. Cossic, you'll agree to this, I'm convinced, you're a good lawyer. To cover up this political intention, according to Miladin Kovacevic's parents, our son is accused of inciting abuse of official duty. So, give what you give, find whatever opportunity you can to fulfill Hilary Clinton's wish and give Miladin Kovacevic, an excellent student, a athlete, a Serb, who has found himself in some place because of some evil fate. I don't want to talk about the measure of this dispute at all, but I'm talking about the criminal-processing things that were being set up in Serbia in order to satisfy someone's harm to a Serbian citizen, which is, you must admit, for every conviction. It is recalled that in the District Court, since the District Court on December 10th abolished the decision on the determination of detention, and the Second Municipal Court made a new solution to the detention only on December 15th and the issue remained open, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of which it was done – of course, complete this detention was illegal and not in accordance with the law – because these five days between December 10th and 15th absolutely nothing, no regulation could be covered. These are terrible things and you can't hide behind no law, no abuse by judges, no corruption of judges, here is obviously just a matter of direct influence of the executive authority on judicial authority. That's what we all swear shouldn't happen in Serbia, but unfortunately it does. We have one potential dispute. Our MP group was written by Mladen Babic and Vojka Babic, who came from Sarajevo to Novi Sad in 92 as refugees. Mladen Babic, he says, had to work since third grade. His mother had no income, because in BiH she had 27 years of employment, she has only 63 years of life, and according to their law, she needs to be 65 years old so she can retire, not read all the details, but this is the essence. In September, he found a new job and today, in a slightly shortened form, they wrote a daily newspaper, but this really deserves the attention of both MPs and representatives of the government, especially DS representatives, because the actor of the evil that happened to Mladen Babić is an DS official. So, in September he found a job and began working at a company from Novi Sad "Lim and TDO" owned by Strahinja Cvejic since 22 September. He worked for a profit of 34,000 dinars, and now these details don't matter. "Cvejic lets me sign a contract of work," which is important, which says that his salary is 15,000 points and the job of a commercialist, even though he hired him as a retail manager, but he had to accept it because of the difficult material situation, and this Cvejic Democrats explained to him that he could do it only in his own way or not, because he does so with everyone. He's one. 11th radio in a bar located on Danila Kiša Street in Novi Sad, it was Saturday. His work day was due until 3:00, and at 14 o'clock he received a notice from his boss and boss that he should continue his work until he finished some work, and the job was to receive 275 new items that had just arrived at the sales facility. He, of course, agreed to, stayed to work and about 18:30 a.m. closed the store, went home, and a few meters from that place at the pedestrian crossing hit him by a car, was hit by an impertinent young man, who doesn't matter in this story, but the important thing is that Mr. Babic got a triple fracture of his knee, a head injury, had one operation, expected another surgery. His mother goes to this Mr. Cvejic and asks for his health book, which, by the way, he's not certified in six weeks, he's asking to fill out the paperwork on his work injury, which, of course, he refuses, he has no idea what it is. Three inspectors are coming, all three inspectors have different opinions, but literally three inspectors -- three different opinions. He, as a great boss, bought his mother some two boxes of drugs that cost a total of 400 dinars to help him. He gave him only misery, with a delay of about ten days, that one salary, but he cut the second salary to 15,300 dinars. He was invited to pick up a work book. Speaks further this gentleman who wrote to us, Babic, how this Cvejic is currently preparing some big scam and robbery under the auspices of the action "IT Djak - European student", we do not know what it is yet, but we will follow this action, as it is announced in the paper, to see how the DS officials, through which NGOs, complete some of their jobs, money laundering, etc. Says Mr. Babić - yesterday I received an e-mail from Cvejic saying that on December 23rd I can come and get my work book, regardless of what I am on sick leave and what I may have to do for another operation. He says he also spoke to DS in Novi Sad, given that this Cvejic is an DS official, but that there was no use for that. He prayed that SRS MPs would talk about this publicly so that Serbia's public would, above all, hear some who had a lot of money behave, and the question is how they earned them. Of course, this does not mean that we Serbian radicals have anything against rich people, on the contrary, we want as much as possible in Serbia as possible to be rich people, to be a rich country, but of course it comes with fair work, that all Serbian citizens can live from their work, that the prime minister does not threaten to live better than we do next year, and that Serbian citizens know well how they already live and that they are not threatened with this or that compensation because of the opposition. You've already prepared less wages, you've already prepared fewer pensions. There was a headline in a newspaper yesterday relating to the budget and it seems to me that it was a great picture of the real state of the budget, says "ice payments", and the title was "less pensions, higher taxes, more communals". This is what Serbian citizens have been waiting for since 1 January as a New Year's gift from the government of Boris Tadic. Of course, there are laws like this waiting for them and they are facing a major problem in the area of justice. So, Serbian citizens need to know, that they take care of how to behave, that they don't get hit by God's car, that God doesn't let them argue with a neighbor, because as they stand in the first January, we won't have a Code of Criminal Procedure that would be applicable. We will not have the possibility of a prosecutor's investigation, which we do not have a high opinion in the SRS, but it is a constitutional category and we are not discussing what constitutional categories are, nor how it came to be that all those involved in the constitution had to give way to the text that was finally accepted and adopted by most citizens of Serbia and this parliament. But there will be no possibility of a prosecution investigation, according to a colleague here today, that this is a planetary achievement - a prosecutor's investigation. This planetary achievement cannot be applied in Serbia because Serbia has an incompetent government, and this planetary achievement will not be able to continue this earth because we have a law that prevents it, again because we have an incompetent government of the Republic of Serbia. This, I repeat, will be the third time that because of your bad judgments, because of you having a vision, and your vision goes only to your own pocket, to bring some laws, some preambitious projects, plans, you promise towers and cities. You keep telling us about some reforms, and one reform failed, the other, the third. It is not that reforms have failed, but that the citizens of Serbia and all are employees of the judiciary, and the judges, and prosecutors and employees of the judiciary have already been in a situation twice that they did not know what to do with themselves. I told you, and we told you about it, that it was not known which court was in charge, within what time the appeal was filed, to whom the appeal was filed, whether anyone would be able to resolve, to decide by that appeal. Now with the CAP on January 1st, we have a third collapse in the judiciary, unless you know by which magic you do not implement what you have written here -- that this law will enter into force on December 30th of this year. It is, therefore, impossible, but even if you step in, the question arises -- what have you been doing for so long, why in two years you have not created conditions for the application of this law, why have you divided the material into the assembly procedure, and for no reason have you withdrawn it from the procedure. Five days later, the minister informs us that a new task force has been formed and that the new task force will work on making a new code, a new text of the CAP. You obviously don't know what you want. You obviously have the need, first of all, and Mrs Malovic, to commend Professor Grubač who worked on this law. Now all of a sudden, it's not good, and now we don't know what the names are, but she said they're the most valuable experts from law school, from law school, from law school, from the judge's office... (President: Time. Time is still going on, ma'am. I've been told 40 minutes, but thank you very much anyway. Accept at least these two amendments, be serious to Serbian citizens for once in your life.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11315	Thank you. I was told you had 39 minutes left, so I just reminded you when it was 15 seconds ago, those 39 minutes. Since there are no more reports on the list of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a search in principle. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposal for this amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. In accordance with Article 85, we will extend the work after 1800 hours if it is necessary to complete the agenda item that is on the agenda at that time, for the reasons of the economics in the work that we so need these days. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE DECISION OF ENDICATION OF THE AUTHORITIES OF JUSTICE FUNCTIONS For this item of the agenda, you have adopted the following motions for a decision: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the Deputy Prosecutor's office, No 118 - 3082/08 and 2. Proposal for a decision to suspend the court's duty, number 118-3083/08. The total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, as well as for this time to be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. MEP Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; G17 parliamentary group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the "Forward Serbia" - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the minority parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to open a public review of the decision to suspend the duties of judicial officials, a single search. According to the Rules of Procedure, first Mr Dragan Todorovic, then Mr. Sasa Dujovic, and then Mico Rogovic, it is the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 27. I assume you've been notified, as well as the KIM Ambush Committee. It seems that these dramatic events that are happening in KIM are linked to what is happening to the Chief of Staff, the Ministry of Defence, with this obstruction of the Assembly when it comes to the budget -- it appears to be a synchronised action leading to the full destabilising of the state, so that we here in some way are completely prevented from following the situation at KIM, and down there things are happening in a way that will very quickly have tragic consequences for the Serbian state and for the Serbian people. Among other things, Unmik did not respect the agreement that Serbian judges and prosecutors would start working in October in the second phase of 2 December, following the entry of their judges and prosecutors. It's obvious that Unmik didn't intend to do it. A member of the negotiating team, Mr Nikola Kabasic, told reporters that Unmik had stalled talks with Serbs, and that it had now been announced that UN mission representatives would also withdraw from the building and that it would be joined by representatives of Eulexa. This clearly shows that the EU has a complete goal of achieving Marty Ahtisaari's plan -- to allow Kosovo to become an independent state. What's even more tragic -- from Kosovo Mitrovica, we're told that the Cypriots are mass entering the Bosniak Mahal, entering apartments, business space, and that's what caused the Serbs to be extremely upset, and the simple ones don't know what to do. I think it should be urgent by the government, by the official authorities to come up with a proposal not only for Serbs to do, but to raise these issues before the UN Security Council, because it is obvious that all this will lead to a new exodus of the Serb people with KIM and that what we have managed to preserve so far -- that Serbs will remain in northern Kosovo, in certain enclaves, that after the entry of the Eulex will practically have no Serbs. So I urge the ruling majority to take urgent steps to prevent this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11317	Thank you. Mr. Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11318	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. I would like to inform the National Assembly, the MPs and the general public, that earlier in the Assembly building, they were representatives of war veterans who are protesting today on the streets of the city of Belgrade and who have led to a bit of blockage of certain streets, and that I am now asking that the president, who attended the conversation, to tell us whether Prime Minister Cvetkovic will receive a delegation. From this place I ask him to receive a delegation and start talks on solving problems that are evident and large and grow every day more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11319	Mr Dujovic, as promised, you have now informed parliament, I have made a suggestion to the prime minister. He will decide whether or not he will receive and inform the delegation who was here and you personally. There's a word Mr. Mica Rogovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11320	Madam President, I am taking the opportunity to ask you, on the basis of my Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 226, since the Justice Ministry gentlemen are not present at the moment, information on the hajka that is being led to friends, family and all business associates of The Hague indictees. We are witnesses, that is, the public of Serbia is a witness that Serbia has largely carried out part of its obligations to The Hague tribunal. However, the haika is led to friends, relatives of the Hague indictees, mostly those who have long or recently been in the Hague tribunal. My report was on the case of Brother Radovan Karadzic, i.e. Luka Karadzic, which refers to a traffic accident in 2005, unfortunately with one tragic death case, caused by it, also occurred in the last three years in a municipality court in Kragujevac. That process was supposed to end yesterday. The trial included a municipal court judge in Kragujevac, a team of 12 prominent experts from this area in Serbia, and yesterday the process in Kragujevac was suspended on a proposal by the prosecutor, i.e. the prosecutor's office, to get rid of the judge who led the trial for three years. I must say, who knows why, but not only in the case of Luka Karadzic, BIA or someone else who knows what kind of discriminatory right to speak of the gentleman still doesn't have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. In this process, the prosecutor asked even to exclude domestic justice, domestic warlocks, and possibly to involve people in this process from the Netherlands. Please forward this question to the Department of Justice and get an answer to this question. Thank you very much. I can't imagine you going on about this important thing. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11321	Your question will be addressed to the Justice Department. Mr. Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11322	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking the Government and the competent judicial authorities - what will be done to avoid the blockade of local self-government in Presevo, which was announced by the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government at yesterday's session, which is linked to the execution of the District Court's ruling in Vranje on an appeal by the Islamic Religious Community concerning compensation for nationalised property in 1959? The audit was sent to the Supreme Court, but for more than two months it does not arrive at the Supreme Court, the case is being held at the District Court in Vranj. Apparently, the intention is that this solution, in my opinion, is totally illegal, because it is not in time to take material information about the property being nationalised, it is not a respected law on restitution, which is the responsibility of the government, the state, and not of the municipality or local self-government. Since the procedure has been conducted and these solutions have been reached, and in time, the revision has been sent to the Supreme Court, the idea is that this injustice should be corrected in the Supreme Court before the execution takes place. If, at 300,000 euros, the most underdeveloped municipality is burdened, for which it is not legally competent, there will certainly be a blockade. The consequences are unpredictable. In this respect, in any case, it takes a very serious approach, and to compensate in this case the Islamic Religious Community, but it could be compensated by a business space, there was this possibility. It has been purposely here that local self-government is burdened with what the government or state, by law, is in charge of, but not to play with such sensitive things, I ask that we... (President: Time. ) take this problem seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11323	Thank you. Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11324	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 104, the dignity of the National Assembly and the dignity of Serbia and all citizens of Serbia has been injured by this man's release and story, I don't mean Mr. Halimi, but this one before him. She's got a folk-soldier on cutbacks, and certain ladies and certain quasi-politicals on honesty. The war to defend Serbian national interests, patriotism is referred to by people who have deserted and literally tried for desertion. The defence of the Hague indictees and their families is told by those who wanted to kill Dr Vojislav Seselj, by helping the Hague prosecutor to impose a lawyer on him. The defence of Hague indictees and their families is told by the people who gave the fictional transcript to "Kurir", I think it was "Kurir", and I apologize to the Courier if he was not with them, a transcript into one of the daily papers that served as a direct reason for the tribunal of The Hague tribunal to initiate the procedure for introducing lawyers, Dr Vojislav Seselj. The UN tribunal, indictees in The Hague tribunal, is being told by those who wanted to sue CNN for their error, or deliberately, their image being put in place, and the signature below -- Hague fugitive Ratko Mladic, a 5m-euro warrant. In the end, the Hague indictees, friends and relatives of the Hague indictees are those whose turn is Alex Ilic, witness against Dr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. If it's from you gentlemen, if you can even call yourself gentlemen, it's a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11325	Replica, Mr. Mica Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11326	Mr. Markovic, I know that you have a part of the days spent on the battlefield in your file, but I am sorry that on behalf of your party's parliamentary group you are talking about this to me who has more days in my boots than you do in the parliamentary benches. And if I were a deserter, I'm a deserter of your SRS, you probably knew that back then. Now, since you've been defending General Ponos all day, you can probably open up the file of Mitsa Rogovic and find all that stuff you're making up for the assembly speaker. Thank you very much. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11327	Mr. Fired Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11328	Article 104 - dignity of the congregation. I'd like to ask the gentleman who was just behind the pay phone to stop defending General Ratko Mladic. I'm telling you seriously, because I know if he's looking at this by accident or hearing about this, he's not gonna be okay. He's still a man of age. It's a man you don't know, and I know him, and that's why my life is richer. There's a lot in my file, unlike your boring life, in which there's only one thing in which there's a file, and that's that you betrayed and left Dr. Vojislav Seselj when it was most difficult for him. I am close to the friends of General Ratko Mladic and a very good friend of his son. I'm telling you, don't defend him. He's not gonna be okay. I'm not saying he won't be able to sleep, but he sure as hell can't check this out. General Ratko Mladic, for your information, has in his time had some of his problems, an observation on the topic of events in Republika Srpska, especially in those last days, ahead of Dayton, but never, as a real soldier, as a man who really knows what democracy is, opposed his opinion to Republika Srpska President Radovan Karadzic, because he was the soldier who obeyed the command of democratically elected leadership. It's a set-up. As much as he was against what this leadership was up to, he never opposed, not in a word, let alone part. It's one of the teachings that I accepted from General Ratko Mladic, to put it that way. I learned a lot from this great man who filled my life and I can proudly say that I knew him and was his soldier. So, Mr. Rogovic, please don't take his name in your mouth. You're not worthy of him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11329	Mr. Momir Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11330	This isn't about the clothes, the shoes, the boots. Someone can spend their whole lives in boots if they're fishing, if they're hunting, or if they're going on wet weather to eventually get something. This is about who spent the time with the gun in his hand defending his country and who escaped, who deserted the army, and for that there are data and for that there is documentation. Once again, you didn't desert from the SRS, you're like that leech when she gets off or when the mosquito leaves the body of a large organism, the parasite is gone and you're not the only one. There's more parasites. The parasites went from the SRS and the SRS, thank God, got rid of that ballast. Once again, it is immoral for cowards, traitors to defend heroes and patriots.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11331	A representative of the SRS parliamentary group Verica Radeta has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have on the agenda a motion for a decision on the termination of the judge's office and on the termination of the deputy attorney general's office. We in the SRS have told you a long time ago that every time this is on the agenda we'll use our time to discuss it, no matter how much it seems to someone it might be pointless. Why am I saying this? Because we have the request of one judge, or two judges, one due to the completed working century needs to stop his duties and the other at his personal request. Also, we have three suggestions that the deputy public prosecutor's office be suspended due to the completed working age of three people. It would be normal to say the perfect working century, people should retire. This judge, on a personal request, is asking for her to stop her duties as judge, but she can't just go through with it. I'm not going to talk about these names, because it's pointless to ask someone why he's retired, if he's turned out to be working age, even though it would be interesting to ask this judge why, on a personal request, he wants to stop her duty as judge. This is interesting every time. We asked the High Council of Justice's representatives in due time that whenever we had such requests to get some explanation, if the High Council, or the Great personal council, had received this more broad explanation before, because we had cases that the judges wanted to be relieved of their judicial duties because they had been falsified on the verdict, because they were forced by the executive authorities to judge something that was not in line with their judicial conviction and positive regulations. For this reason it is an interesting topic, it will be particularly interesting when and if this law on the network of courts is applied, of course, before that law on lustration, because you will be asked a question and you will see when it comes, and will come to the agenda, when we talk about it, when, for example, a judge living in Tutina is assigned to a judge in Novi Pazar and judges in Sjenica. Imagine how that someone and how that someone would be able to do their job, how they would be able to cross that relationship at all during the working day. That would be impossible either by helicopter, let alone by transport, by your own or by bus, since you will certainly not allocate funds for the procurement of vehicles for vessels in such cases, since there are many of those press courts that are related to the Ministry of Justice, which are driving an angry car. When it comes to this request for the termination of the deputy attorney general's office, you have here the name of a deputy prosecutor who has been investigated, against whom some criminal proceedings have been conducted, and we have never found out what actually happened, how it was done, and is there any responsibility? Did he perform that function in the meantime? The question is, is there anything similar about these other names? Of course, we'll never get an answer from the Justice Department to these questions, because we've also tried concrete questions, for specific names, we've never received an answer. Kola Krasic and I have asked how many times on the agenda, in a motion for a decision on the termination of the judge's office, we have a name, for example, for that judge, Danko Lausevic. I remind you, this is the one who, by order of the authorities at the time, imposed a probation on Vojislav Seselj, because Vojislav Seselj insulted Stanko Subotic-Caneta. This is the one you have now issued an arrest warrant, because of the same thing that Vojislav Seselj told him about in time, and this judge, Lausevic, dared to pass that illegal verdict and, after the appeal, lost that set of case files between the 5th and the 4th municipal court. Maybe he stopped at Gazelli or who knows where. We've never found out, and we've asked countless times where this case is and what about this case, and what about this judge and what about our initiatives, which we delivered to every possible law-expected address six or seven years ago about the whole process? I remind you, it's that judge who's in the middle of a serious debate, in the presence of several of us from the SRS, my colleague and I were, they were lawyers from Stanko Subotic, there were some law students who were present to learn, sent them by teachers to learn something serious and ran into Danko Lausevic, and who was in the middle of such a serious debate, rang his cell phone and he answered his phone and said, "Hi, love, something hurts my tooth, I have some debate here. All right, bye-bye, love." So it's still in court. He will certainly remain after the lustration, for he must have hired you when he dared to pass a verdict that he could not, of course, pronounce. Whenever we talk about judges and public prosecutors, we can't miss an opportunity without reminding the public and not talking about Vladimir Vukcevic, it's that war crimes specialist, that's his name. These days, we read in the media how Vukcevic discovered a mass grave in Albania. According to war crimes prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic, he told the newspaper that he had received evidence suggesting the existence of a mass grave located in the Albanian town of Burelj, where Serbs from Kosovo were buried. The tomb, he says, is located not far from the yellow house, where it is assumed that operations were carried out on Serbian prisoners and their organs were removed. So, Wolfevic knows everything. He also knows where the yellow house is, and he knows where the organs were removed to the Serbs, he knew it obviously before Carla del Ponte published it, only the question is if she hadn't announced whether the specialist would have remembered doing something about it. He also knows where the Serb mass grave is, he says, the missing Serbs from Kosovo. He knows he's in Albania at Burelj's place, he was, you remember, familiar with Serbian citizens. He went with the Albanian minister to agree that they should start, to conduct proceedings against those who participated in the extraction and sale of human organs from abducted Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. What did he do there? I went to the touristic, the picture of the seven embellishing those walls in the special prosecutor's office, and I told you that these walls in the hall of the special prosecutor's office were painted with pictures where Vukcevic hugged Karl del Ponte, Carla del Ponte in arms with Boris Tadic, so all three of them together, so Stipe Mesic of course with them. So, I don't really know a colleague how you can laugh, and here I won't even look at you not to notice the others who find this funny, but really this is our sad truth and our sad and unfortunate present, my dear fellow. I'm convinced you're sharing an opinion with me, but who knows what you just remembered? What does this Wolfevic say? He says -- we expect this new evidence to finally convince the authorities to start a new investigation into what was going on in northern Albania, but this time under the supervision of the international community. That's what the Wolfevic is talking about. Is this the international community that Dragan Todorovic was just talking about here? Is that the Eulexa mission? Will that part of the Eulexes mission, judges and prosecutors go to northern Albania, help investigate all these tragic cases that have happened to Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija? He added, according to the prosecutor's office, the abduction of Serbs from Kosovo was organised by KLA commander Ramush Haradinaj, who was released by The Hague for crimes against Serbs. Former Albanian Prime Minister Sali Berisha, who issued houses in northern Albania, was involved in crimes against Serbs. The question for Vladimir Vukcevic and the Ministry of Justice, for Boris Tadic, for the Serbian government -- what did they do in diplomatic relations between Albania and Serbia after this knowledge, because Albania remains a friendly country in which they go so touristic that they go on public spending, take pictures and come back after a few days? Where is the state's reaction to these facts that Vladimir Vukcevic, the special prosecutor for war crimes, calls facts and presents them as facts? Where is the state's reaction, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Are we playing country or are we a serious nation, are we serious people, do we have an understanding for our victims or don't we care, let it happen, everything goes past us? He can't do that anymore. Vladimir Vukcevic cannot perform the task of a specialist, that he has this information, that he knows, here he says, that Ramush Haradinaj, according to the prosecution, has been kidnapping Serbs from KIM, that he organised it after the same Vukcevic says he is digging up the sky and the country to find General Mladic. How long has that hypocrisy been going on? When are we going to become a serious and responsible state? When are we going to act like decent people? We as humans are, but unfortunately we don't have a decent government, we don't have the authority that deserves it to be. You supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia, however, have not shown this, since you were not 126 to vote in favour of the government, so draw attention to them, tell them that they must take care of state interests, national interests, the interests of each citizen of Serbia. Imagine one day when we get a motion to stop this Vladimir Vukčević's prosecutorial post, will you still be silent, just voting? He wanted a man to be no longer a prosecutor, he made enough money, he had enough to work with Carl del Ponte. He doesn't care, and we never ask him what he was doing, why he didn't do much, why don't our special prosecutor's office conduct criminal acts against Croats suspected of war crimes against Serbs? Why aren't criminal proceedings being conducted? Why do we not have in public information about what happens to those who have been convicted, who have been exchanged or those against whom the proceedings have been initiated, so they have been exchanged? Why this Vukcevic and his Bruno Vekaric and the complete government and the government of the Republic of Serbia are not interested. Is there a procedure against these people out there, if they're still in jail? Whether the procedure has been continued. Does it matter to anyone at all from officials in this country what happens to those who have committed war crimes against Serbs? Unfortunately, Kosovo and Metohija commit the most serious crimes today. These aren't cobwebs. We always take care, we Serbian radicals advocate every crime being punished, but we also claim that every crime has a criminal, a crime has a name and a name and everyone has to answer for what he really did. But, the government of the Republic of Serbia, part of our prosecution, above all, I think of this special war crimes prosecutor's office as having a completely different archeology. You know, we've talked more than once about who's in our Special Prosecutor's Office and the War Crimes Court, who's cheery and dressy -- Natasa Kandic. It is known who is funding Natasa Kandic, that Sam Nazaro, an American embassy adviser, is in the Special Court, that Natasa Kandic and Sam Nazaro dictate the verdicts, that judges only sign them. It's a public secret, the Serbian judiciary is buzzing about it, all the serious judges and all the serious prosecutors are talking about it. You all know it, everyone in the ministry knows it, Boris Tadic knows it, the advisers of Boris Tadic know it. You all act like you don't live in this life and you don't live in this world. Ladies and gentlemen, it is we who must, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, oblige us to draw attention to the unconstitutional, illegal and unpatriotic behaviour and the President of the Republic of Serbia, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Prime Minister, and the members of the Government individually. If we don't do it here in the best interests of all Serbian citizens, in the Serbian national interest, then I don't know who we can expect. From Eulex in Kosovo and Metohija? You heard what was going on earlier and why a government official here didn't accept those amendments regarding a network of courts in Kosovo and Metohija. Because they knew there wouldn't be room for our judges there, because they knew that there would be judges there and that they were suing the EULEX prosecutors, who brought Wardsworth, Manter and the rest of the white world. They knew that, and here they were playing, like, what we're saying, what we're saying is that in Kosovo and Metohija we have a network of courts. We wanted and insisted that even through the network of courts we show that the state of Serbia lives in Kosovo and Metohija. What did you do by voting for that law on the network of courts? What did those who didn't come to vote against those laws do? What did those who made quorums vote? My dear colleagues, they will ask you history, they will ask you in the family, they will ask you descendants, take care of the state of Serbia, take care of the interests of every Serbian citizen. This is what the people have bound us to, and that is what God commits us to.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11333	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. According to Article 93(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, were submitted by the MPs of the SRS. The word is Petar Jojic. He's not here. ) National MP Sreto Peric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11334	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever there are laws on the agenda in the field of justice or the appointment and resolution of judicial officials, it is a very important topic for the SRS. How much justice, as a special branch in Serbia, is significant, it also indicates a number of provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which basically regulated this matter, and then referred to the adoption of a number of laws that regulate it in more detail. Before this point of the agenda, we had a debate, in principle, on amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. In that code, it is proposed not to say care, but to develop authority in the holders of judicial functions and dignity. However, this authority does not do anything on this plan, but does everything the opposite. Dear citizens and fellow MPs, today we see more than the previous days in the work of mathematical creation of the government in July. Madam President, I have an objection to your account. When the president of the SRS parliamentary group in the morning, Mr Dragan Todorovic pointed to a rude violation and unpleasant behaviour of the English ambassador, you instructed him to have a meeting with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia at 11.00 p.m., so that he would give an answer. I ask you a question: what if it wasn't for that meeting? I'm sure there wasn't a word about it at that meeting. You see now that there are very big problems ahead of this government, but it is, the respected citizens of Serbia, paying the price, I call it the mathematical government that was formed in July. In a debate under the agenda of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Prime Minister, Ms Malovic, said that a working group was formed to propose a new criminal code and said who would be president of the task force. We from the SRS have expressed our doubts about the working group, especially its president, because he does not like the way the constitution regulated the ownership of the mandate after the elections were held. Of course, the truth in a small number, we have regrets on primarily district courts that did not comply with the Law on Local Elections when they had complaints of the SRS to act on it. We now have on the agenda a resolution of the judge's office. That is, as Commissioner Verica said in her previous presentation, two judges: one retires, the other on a personal request. We suggest that in the next period, when we have such a situation, when it comes to a resolution based on a personal requirement to get, with a request for resolution, and what are the reasons, then you will see how much abuse there is in the judiciary by the executive authority. We are assessing, and we know, because in the previous period we had seven legislative proposals, or seven laws that we discussed here and that we could prepare quality for this debate, we contacted a large number of judicial officials, and they themselves appeared in the SRS parliamentary group. It was the best way to get to know each other, but we've followed that problem before, in what conditions do our legal holders work. The assessment, both of Serbia's citizens, is that the largest number of judicial officials deserve to continue to work on this job, but there are a number of judges and public prosecutors who needed to resolve these functions, and that we did not need to amend and supplement any law, on the basis of current laws so far we were able to do so and we were obliged to do so, but it gave up. First, those judges and public prosecutors working under the dictatorship of the executive authorities should be resolved. We never, when we comment on the laws in the field of justice and the appointment or resolution of the holders of judicial functions, comment on the verdicts, because one side is always unsatisfactory. You know, the court isn't going to report for baptism or anything else, but mostly when there are certain problems in practice and always one side will be dissatisfied. There are cases where a court settlement occurs, but that number, the number of cases solved in such a way, is smaller than when it is directly arbitration, and we don't talk about it when we say that the largest number of judicial officials make up honest people and professionally trained for that part, but there is one number that doesn't deserve to be judges or public prosecutors. But since 2001, when the DOS came to power then counterpart Batic as minister knows, I don't blame him for that part, knows who became judges and presidents of the municipal and county courts, and perhaps even some district courts, people without experience in the judiciary. Then it was required to be tried on the basis of day-to-day policy, not by law. The SRS parliamentary group will always stop and support those holders of judicial functions that judge under the Constitution, the law and other general acts that are in accordance with the Constitution and the law and, of course, internationally recognised contracts, and we always consider those judges and prosecutors who judge on the basis of these rules to act properly and to be able to perform those functions. No one here has answered the question of why in 2008 there were 60 false reports about the bombing at the Court of Justice, and that only one person was responsible for it, and then we can express our suspicion that perhaps even in the agreement, depending on who was to be prosecuted in that day, or who was to be tried, so 60 days in 2008, there were false charges, and 27,500 court proceedings were postponed. How much did that cost Serbian citizens? Nothing was done, and we here are trying to point out certain problems, to condemn what is not in favour of the citizens of Serbia, to condemn the inactivity of the government or the wrong act, and yet someone dares to estimate it as an obstruction. It seems whenever the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have a solution for certain problems, and very often there are no problems, because there are many problems, and it seems to me that the government of the Republic of Serbia is making the most of all the problems, then they are calling for some obstruction. Probably one of you had a chance to look at one of our colleagues, a colleague of Alexander Vlahovic, who hosted a TV show last night and I'm not going into a debate with him about what he said, but at a criticism of why the subsidies were left out to farmers and agriculture, says that too much of the funds were allocated in 2007 and 2008, not properly spent, so now he assumes that when those funds were reduced, the effects would be much higher. There, and such answers give representatives of the ruling coalition, and the government's representatives give more and more disastrous answers to what they are interested in and what they should do. I think the reform of the judiciary was needed today in Serbia, and in vain is a strategy on judicial reform that was done in 2006, so some law experts went to the so-called so-called so-called Justice Reform. training in the white world, so that they can apply it to us, which is actually the implementation of not only the Constitution and the law, but the exercise of the will of the executive authority in the system of justice, which the SRS will always fight against.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11335	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. First Mr. Martinovic? Well, Mr. Batic was supposed to be first, but well, if that's what you agreed on, you can, okay, go ahead, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11336	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank Mr Batic for allowing me to speak before he did. This agenda item is a good reason to say more about the situation in the Serbian judiciary. We closed the debate yesterday on the 2009 draft budget. What falls into the eyes when it comes to state authorities, which is that there is a significant increase in financial resources for the work of the state administration, i.e. for the work of the cabinets of the Prime Minister, the cabinet of the President of the Republic, Deputy Prime Minister, various Deputy Prime Ministers, various agencies, etc. Yesterday you could hear from the debate of MPs how much the indices grew compared to 2008. On the other hand, when it comes to justice, there has been a significant reduction in the financial resources for the work of judicial authorities, although in 2009, the state should take appropriate measures, financial, organisational and humane nature, to finally operate in Serbia by judicial authorities which have been educated by the relevant laws, which have not yet started to function. Here, first of all, I mean the administrative court, the appeals courts. It would be logical to then increase the amount from the budget for the work of these state institutions. However, it is frantic that in 2009, Serbia's judiciary, if this budget proposed by the Serbian government is adopted by more than a month of delay, will actually have far less resources than it was in 2008. What is a fact, is that in the 2009 draft budget, the government of Serbia did not provide for any financial means to pay off, let's say that these are the severances of a judge who will be out of a job. It is clear that by adopting these latest judicial laws in the Serbian Parliament, a lustration of judges will occur. You do not call it formal, in essence it is a cleanup of all those judges who are inappropriate to Boris Tadic's regime. The question arises, what will happen to judges who lose their jobs, and more than 100 municipal courts have been abolished in Serbia by the latest laws. I don't see how you're going to damage these people. I can't believe you're just gonna tell them, you're not judges from today, go to the street. There are judges who spent 10, 20, 30 years in the judiciary, there are plenty of high-quality judges, there are judges who have tried their entire working life according to the Constitution and the law. Now only because the Serbian government did not want to accept absolutely any suggestion from MPs from the opposition ranks, a large number of courts have been abolished. With the removal of a large number of courts, of course there will be a dismissal of judges. What is also a fact, it is today that we are discussing the termination of the judge's duty, and the fact is that this government, including not only the Serbian government but also the President of the Republic, is doing everything to push Serbia into unspeakable misery and misery. First of all, the Serbian government drastically violated the Law on the Budget System, which it itself proposed in the Serbian Parliament in 2002. The budget arrived more than a month late. The only thing we could hear from the government's representatives, which is some kind of an easy apology, is that the government apologizes to the MPs and citizens of Serbia for brutally breaking the Budgetary System Act. Then we could hear various explanations from the government's representatives when in fact this global economic crisis occurred, until two months ago Bozidar Djelic denied that this crisis even exists, so he said that the crisis exists, but that it will have a beneficial fact on the Serbian economy, because we are isolated from world economic and financial flows, since we are not yet a member of the EU. A few days ago, we heard from the finance minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, when we discussed the latest deposit insurance laws, that the Serbian government had information that the global financial crisis had occurred in the summer of 2007, but that they remembered a month or two ago to take appropriate measures. Then you had that miraculous statement by Prime Minister Cvetkovic that a team was formed to propose measures to the Serbian government and the National Assembly to fight the economic crisis. The governor of the National Bank comes out, with which you obviously don't have good communication, because he's saying one thing, you're saying another, the man says, I have no idea that any team is formed, and I don't know that I'm on that team. To make the matter worse, an open conflict is emerging now in light of the day between Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and Chief of Staff Zdravko Ponos. What's the difference between the two of them? Only in DS status. Zdravko Ponos is an ordinary member of the DS, and Dragan Sutanovac is vice president of the DS. That's the only difference. Why did this conflict occur? Because obviously Boris Tadic shows muscles to Serbian citizens. He is now trying to create some rivalry between civil and military authorities, between the defence minister and the chief of staff. Perhaps he plans to come out as some peacemaker to reconcile those two members, or DS officials. If you listened to what the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, the situation at KIM is getting worse not from day to day, from hour to hour. In such a situation, breaking up Serbia's Army, i.e. muttering water when it comes to relations between the defence minister and the chief of staff, is indeed equal to national betrayal and national disaster. Since 91, the United States and the EU have inflicted a lot of evil on Serbia and the Serbian people -- and sanctions, and when I say sanctions, I mean not only sanctions on Serbia-Montenegro, but also sanctions on Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska; and bombing, and media Satanisation. Now they're trying to kidnap KIM, through its allies in Novi Sad, trying to recognise Serbia's sovereign and international territories to create some kind of new state, an independent state of Vojvodina. They write a statute that in 90% of its provisions is directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Everything happened to the Serbs during the 1990s and early 21st century, the only thing that hasn't happened to us was civil war. Now it looks like there's still going to be a civil war. That seems to be what Boris Tadic has taken care of. Obviously, this conflict between the Secretary of Defense and the Chief of Staff, I don't want it to be so, but who knows, could lead to some conflict of broader proportions. In a situation where the Serb people at KIM are existentially at risk, when you have the Minister of Trade, so-called. The Republic of Kosovo said publicly a few days ago that the government so-called. The republic of Kosovo to ban imports of any goods from Serbia, in a situation where EULEX officials at KIM openly say they are not interested in any constitution of Serbia, any sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, that they came here to help strengthen Kosovo institutions, to help bring the so-called "faster" approach. The Republic of Kosovo, in such a situation, Boris Tadic and Dragan Sutanovac are provoking simple conflicts of broader proportions in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. destroying what little remains of the Serbian Army. Indeed, man asks himself a logical and reasonable question, does he have a limit to destroying Serbia? What else needs to happen, what part of the territory needs to take away, how many Serbs need to be killed, how many bombs do we need to drop on our children's heads to tell you once -- now enough, stop destroying us, stop humiliating us. Regarding Serbia's judiciary, I think that the SRS MPs in today's presentation and in previous statements on Serbia's budget, and especially for a set of these criminal judicial laws, will say a lot today. It would be good if you could respect at least part of those suggestions. I believe there are honest and honest people among you. Remember, 2009 will be extremely difficult, not just on the economic and financial agenda. It is not impossible to escalate the conflict, a new exodus of Serbs in KIM, and God forbid these conflicts spread to the territory of this narrow part of Serbia. The state of Serbia is unprepared for both the economic crisis and the political crisis. Do not make it more difficult for the Republic of Serbia. We in the SRS are doing everything we can to bring down Boris Tadic's regime, but when it comes to the vital interests of the Republic of Serbia, we are always in first place to help it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11337	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11338	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, when we talk about the resolution of the holders of judicial functions, I don't think that they should be just people who, in order to meet the conditions for retirement or for some other reason, need to leave that function, but also those who don't want to, don't, can't or don't know that they are doing such a delicate and responsible job. I mean, first of all, I'm gonna stick with the D.A.'s office. So, since I have personal experience, I will repeat them for who knows which time and ask - why not do so, I will only limit myself to my criminal charges, according to my criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic for the HVB bank, not just him, but some others, but he is at the top of the pyramid, for the National Savings Bank, for the Cypriot money? A criminal report may, if unfounded, be rejected. That's quite realistic. I wouldn't have thought of you or that criminal charges being dropped. The second alternative is to process, either by conducting investigations, or by making a direct complaint, or indictments, but they cannot stand for years. It's the same situation with my criminal charges against RTS leaders for the purchase of Universal films; it's neither being processed nor being rejected. It is identical to my criminal application for my unfounded deprivement of freedom against then-Minister of Justice and Chief of Ubpok, against Zoran Stojkovic and Mladen Spasic. They don't throw away, they don't process. Why not process and what such a plastic example means - the influence of the executive authority on the work of the judicial authorities, when Minister Zoran Stojkovic's cabinet chief, otherwise a veterinary technician, with a memorandum and the seal of the Ministry of Justice, asks the Commercial Court in the Kingdom to suspend a privatisation procedure. And nothing to anyone. What about prosecutors who act, or do not act in the event of the murder of two guards on Topcider? To buy time, the D.A.'s office is looking for unnecessary extra skill. The FBI performs ballistics, so they say they didn't kill each other, or either one of them didn't kill himself, but killed by the third person. And besides, already unnecessary ballistic skills, he's looking for additional court-medical skills, including additional judicial and medical expertise, to confirm that they were murdered. And again silence. People like that don't deserve to be in the D.A.'s office. I'm no one's lawyer, but I think that in the organization of our judicial authorities somehow the biggest rating and the highest place, and I think unlike some other fellow MPs, there are special prosecutors and courts for organized crime and war crimes. Maybe I'm a little sentimental, I'm allowed because I'm the creator of one and the other court, or the prosecution, and even everything, if you want buildings and the whole organization, but I'd like to draw attention to one detail. (President: Time. I'm sorry, I don't want to answer, but I'm still going to answer the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11339	Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this motion for a decision to suspend the duties of judicial officials can in any case be used as a reason to discuss in a few sentences or in a few minutes on the responsibility of the executive authority today in Serbia, on the one hand. On the other hand, it may be possible to use it as some cliché or etalon to define itself as a mechanism, i.e. to build in the perspective mechanisms that are objectively needed in Serbia's justice system, and we have talked a lot about this over the past few days, when a whole set of judicial laws was on the agenda, a law that should bring about the necessary reforms in Serbia's justice system. Speaking of responsibilities, first of all, I'd like to stay here and look back. I think we tried to express ourselves on the responsibility of the executive authority in Serbia, to provoke ourselves in our discussions this morning, opening two very important topics, one and today, and one today, and that is, above all, the attitude and interference of the English ambassador to internal opportunities in Serbia, and then certainly also refers to the level of the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the most responsible people in the Ministry of Defence. Some of them, I don't mean to say welcome to the knife, but their silence, I think it's best to determine the irresponsibility and willingness of the executive to respond to such bad things and give certain answers. I will remind you of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of a member who defines the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, that is Article 99, which says at point 9, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is adopting a defence strategy. I think this has given more than the legitimacy of any MP in this House to ask the question of what's going on at the Ministry of Defence, who is representing the real defence strategy of this country, whether the chief or minister. I think all those who operate this body and this congregation were certainly obliged to react. What is also important to say is that we can argue in this House about every concept, strategy or law, but everything that comes out of this House as a document is binding on everyone, whether it belongs to the government or to the opposition. In line with that fact, I think the executive authorities were obliged to respect what this parliament adopted. What such a strategy and concept of the defence of this state was -- it was, we can challenge it from an ideological point of view, for us, it is unacceptable any document that the introduction is being made in Brussels, but we were prepared as responsible people and politicians to respect it. This time, it questioned the respect of certain documents by the executive authorities in Serbia, and this is one example that illustrates the country's readiness to deal responsibly with both itself and all of those acts and documents it adopts and bring forward, and which it plans in perspective, which is based on the functioning of every vision or segment of the country's life. As for this decision and my opinion, she should be used as one cliché. I think you could use these decisions and define them as a mechanism that will seriously serve reforms in the justice system in the Republic of Serbia. Why do I say that? You have been through a set of judicial laws and directly and indirectly dealing with all those things that may be a problem and discrediting the judicial system in Serbia, that is, things that have the least impacted the discreditation of the justice system in Serbia. We can all say that it was good, but how to deal with people, are good enough mechanisms built to deal with people who have put their bad habits, their tendency to crime, their irresponsibility, ineffectiveness and corruption into the system. I think that resolving these people was objectively the only mechanism to resolve the ballast of the justice problem in Serbia. I am convinced that both the authorities and the congregation's majority would be much easier to reach with the opposition consensus on such mechanisms than about everything we discussed in the congregation. For the mechanism on territorial organization, or on the network of courts, you could not provide consensus within the congregation majority itself. How did you ensure that most of the law was passed is clear to everyone who got out of the session and who supported the quorum? If you were responsible and prepared to deal seriously with problems in the judiciary, I don't think you'd have to reach out to that. I think that you have been able to provide a consensus for the resolution of many judicial officials, whether the judge or prosecutors, on the side of the opposition, but that you have offered to the opposition and the Assembly in general criteria on the basis of which you would assess the work of individual judicial officials in Serbia. If through these criteria you could convince us that some judge doesn't deserve to be a judge anymore, that some public prosecutor doesn't deserve to be a public prosecutor, I'm convinced that we would all vote here to resolve such people. If we're sitting on the left or right, I think the relationship to unquality, irresponsibility and incomparability doesn't change, at least that's how it should be. You did not give room for the congregation to decide in such a way and be determined according to the holders of judicial functions that are bad, I repeat, corrupt and irresponsible. We have a situation that many courts, whether municipally, whether or not the districtal, or primary and senior courts in the perspective, have turned into exposures of political parties. Some public prosecutors, individual deputies, have tried each other on the orders of local party leaders, which in a direct or indirect way influenced their future, whether they will remain the president of the courts, whether they will remain public prosecutors, whether they will become deputy public prosecutors, etc. In such an environment as the judiciary, one of the direct and unscrupulous interference of local or some of the higher levels of political interests, you have created the image of the judiciary that we have today. You've passed a set of judicial laws that, I say and I'm convinced, you won't solve any problems in the judiciary, you might want to partially remove some things, but you certainly won't solve the essence of the problem. So I say once again, I think that it was objective to think about, that these mechanisms of non-responsibility, crime and corruption in the justice system should be applied, that we all together resolve those who are not good, who are not responsible, who are not effective, and I think it was something that we should have done and what we could objectively for the judiciary to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11341	The word is Mr. Batic in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11342	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is about this subject, but I will refer to the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. So, what's this about? I ask, rather, the foreign minister to use his authority in the United Nations in order for the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes to come up with complete information. Here's the thing. As the public knows, the Special Prosecutor's Office has launched a procedure to determine the fate of the kidnapped non-Serb nationalities from Kosovo and the Metohija that were transported to Albania and are being taken away from their vital authorities. In order to obtain valid information, the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes had to address one side of Unmika, on the other hand, the competent institutions in Albania. There's a problem. You saw them come across a closed door. However, there has been an official report by Unmik, which is this paper, related to the famous "yellow house", related to finding medical equipment, means of operations, not far from that so-called yellow house. This is the report. A mass grave was found 15km from a yellow house and from a place called Burelj in Albania. But when Prosecutor Vukcevic addressed Unmika, or the criminal department, the justice department, the chief prosecutor of Unmika, he received information that none of it had anything to do with it. We are witnessing through the media that the deputy prosecutor in charge in Albania reacted similarly. The minister of justice or the minister of justice of Albania as well. So this crime has to be solved. That's why we need to get information from the foreign minister, and he's officially talking to the United Nations, to see why this is being covered up, because this is one of the most serious crimes. You remember that I was gathering evidence with my associates. Haradinaj, among other things, has been charged with kidnapping. Nothing further could affect the tribunal's court decisions in The Hague. But according to operational data, Haradinaj was also in charge of the Pristina-Burrelj route, about the withdrawal of vital organs. There is plenty of information, as there is information that Thaci the day before our prosecution went to Sali Berisha and then the directive came to the Albanian judicial authorities to shut up. I'd like another piece of information on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11343	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic. You have 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11344	I had to return the Constitution, because as soon as I read the Constitution, I get my punishment. We are the only country on the globe where a state's main constitutional act must not be quoted from the assembly pay phone, because MPs are being punished and that's why I had to return the Constitution. If I mention the Constitution, you will not take away from me evil, and you will stop it, but punish me, give me a little respite, there are more messengers there, and punish someone else. So we're at the end of the agenda -- the termination of the judge's office and the public prosecutor's office. At first, I must say that my discussion does not apply to these six names of judges and prosecutors listed in these two decisions. My discussion will be principled. Why? Because the sun will warm us up thanks to someone giving the quorum on Monday, and some have escaped, so what the government has proposed in terms of prosecutors and judges has been voted out. In the next 90 days, we will be warmed up by the sun, so Bosko Ristic will function in zero composition and the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Judges and prosecutors, you've been robbing Boston since March 1st. That's the situation. What we need to know is that this is probably one of the last decisions, where the law of 2001 ends, which has been changed several times later. Now it's going to go according to some new law, although it wouldn't surprise me to keep it under the old law. At first, I would just open the topic, if by any chance, since we have a year to implement these judicial regulations, if any of the judges and prosecutors were to, say, be 38 and a half years of employment, will they be re-elected, re-elected in the competition or not? According to a practice that has existed for several years, people with over 50 years of life are not wanted to be in a working relationship and they are practically the target for a shooting that has priority. So I don't rule out the possibility that we won't make any more decisions like this, but some won't be elected after 37-38 years of work, so I'll draw attention in time to the judges or prosecutors not to be too surprised, since these are new solutions, and if you mix up Bosko Ristić as a member of both organs in position, then know what fate it will be. I know, Democrats are running away, they don't want this mentioned. So this is the situation that awaits us in 2009, especially in 2010. You know for a fact that all those who are in a working relationship, who are more than 50 years old, represent a great ballast, a burden, and if something doesn't go by by not choosing to compete, then probably something similar is going on at the next stage, like these two decisions that are being discussed today. This should be kept in mind. Of course, it must also be known that the law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was the previous item of the agenda, will come into force independently on 30 December, because in the Code of Criminal Procedure the date of application is 31 December. That is the main reason, but we will never know how the need for this code to change, and that is one single member, where the December 31st deadline shifts to July 1st, 2010. We will never find out for the simple reason why the best laws adopted in this assembly were the best until the vote is over. After a year, they become laws that have to change because society is not capable of these new solutions. So today we have three laws on criminal proceedings in legal traffic. He's got this federal, we've got two republicans that don't apply. So we don't lack laws. We have laws for all situations, and we have spare laws. We only have one problem, which the judges and prosecutors don't know what law to apply. That's the little problem, and that's why we have in practice really very strange solutions. No matter what I claimed from this place, the government has made every effort to prove my claims abundantly. So we have about a hundred laws that change every year. Such is the situation with the Code of Criminal Procedure, such is the situation with some of our other regulations, and whenever they change, they are European, best to give God regulations. So they change because of the second god to give regulations, so in order and always, of course, the citizens of fraud, because these days they find out something that is painfully true -- that any victory of the DS means defeat of Serbia. That's the proportion, that's the proportion. She's exactly the same. A few days ago, we had this famous Eulex. We haven't heard what those six points were suggested by Jeremic... However, Batic said he should use his reputation at the Security Council. Mr. Batic, the pay phone is here for serious matters. Please don't, so what's Jeremic's reputation in the UN? Please, he has no reputation in the DS, where can he have it in the UN? No, this is a serious place, the National Assembly, to be seriously discussed. What reputation, Jeremiah? He and Tadic raided the NIS, remember or forgot it, as you forgot those Micunovic futhers in the Federal Assembly? Come on, please! The arson was three curtains, right? He later -- this much material, how much it was renovated. Let it go. No one can fool us anymore. So we're afraid of that victory of the DS, because then it's a certain defeat of Serbia, Serbia on its entire territory. We talked to you about Eulex a few days ago. You're the one who called Eulex. Eulex came to finish the last phase of banishing Serbs with KIM. You're not talking about anything. The works show, see for yourself. You've heard the news today -- it's breaking into the Bosniak Mahal, it's emptying the courts. Unmik? Unmik doesn't exist, people -- he doesn't exist on KIM territory since 8 December. Do you know how much the Americans and the ones who installed it there to these principles -- like us up to last year's snow, that's the ratio? So it's very dangerous when you win. Mr. Batic told one great truth. He said one great truth, and it's a shame that the chairman of this board of justice and administration didn't find it appropriate to say with three sentences - to introduce us into this topic. Why? One is the situation where someone ends his working life and needs to retire, and that's the termination of the judge's office and the termination of a working relationship under the law. The second is when he leaves on a personal request. When a personal request leaves, there is always a spot left - what made the judge leave the judge or the prosecutor, or the deputy prosecutor, since in this profession, Mr. Batic, everyone is somehow harder to be judges. Anyone who finishes law school has a life wish, probably 70-80% to work in court, to be a judge, to be a prosecutor, some people want to be lawyers. Few people who want to work in the economy and in the bank, etc., most of them see themselves as a lawyer in court. Now, given these motives and desires when someone leaves the court on a personal request, the question always opens - what is it? Is the problem of status, is it a problem of overload, which objects must carry home, to knock on a man and be a dactylographer, and a writer and all, or is it something called pressure? In addition to these two reasons that I first stated, I think this third one is the most important. Really, the judges are working under a lot of pressure. Once upon a time, political cases were known, and this may have been one case in the entire court in the ten-year or twenty-year history of a court, and now political cases appear on several grounds. So, neighbors argue over the border and one neighbor goes to the party's headquarters in power and takes advantage of that familiarity. The party in power jumps to the judge and the case gets a political dimension, although it is originally not political -- neighbours dispute over some border, parking space or anything. But it gets a political connotation for one of the last reasons you managed to convince the citizens that political support is needed in order to solve a case in court. We have originally political subjects, where participants in political life appear as some parties in the process, whether willingly or reluctantly, whether because someone is stalking them or because they are addressing some elemental rights, and these items get special attention, so they are particularly monitored. Of course, a judge or a judge is elected to the Kopalnik on a prize journey, so after the Kopalnik, when he returns, removes or does not approve a temporary measure, he builds up everything and everything in the solution and then expects, when you start with re-election, to be re-elected as a judge, even if everyone in that court knows he's a thin judge. Everyone knows he's a thin judge and they're just afraid that judge doesn't make mistakes, because he's been working on litigation lately, before that, he's been working on registering business subjects, but these are our experts. Furthermore, we have a situation where banks influence the outcome of the dispute, influence informal power centres, which draw their power first and foremost in financial strength and the fact that they can see through their fingers to finance something, to get some and committees, so if they need a little and more favourable conditions to grant some credit. It's these socially beneficial and similar parties in the process, not to talk about bankruptcy, not to talk about other things, where especially those situations happen when judges show exceptional expertise and exceptional similarity. Of course, the DS will elect you during this stage of the competition, so that since 1 January 2010, the judiciary will finally become democratic. Democraticly, because for God's sake, who else could best apply democratic regulations from the democratic judiciary. That's our reality. I have to, because I've tried to figure out what's going to happen more than once from this pay phone, and I've tried to figure out what's going to happen, to tell you that you're going to succeed in one piece to realize what you're up to, but in that principal part, you're not going to make it. You will again come here to seek to amend the European regulation by some new White European regulation. It's our destiny since the Democrats are in power. Of course, citizens will remember these words of mine -- their victory is your defeat, your defeat at every turn. So get out of the way. Whom the snake burns, he's afraid of the lizard, too, to let you know. If you have seen that this driver does not know how to drive a bus full of children, then save the children - leave the bus to someone else who can drive a little better or safer to drive this bus called the Republic of Serbia. Because wherever they went, wherever they boasted, they cheated on us. You can see for yourself that this trip to Europe is extremely uncertain, no matter how euphoric the Deputy Prime Minister is. He is euphoric for personal reasons, because he has a good system to protect his personal wealth and of course his post as Deputy Prime Minister is very important to him. There are others in the government who count much more on their personal interests than on what you citizens are going to eat tomorrow, whether you're going to work tomorrow. In order for there to be no confusion, I have to inform you in time -- five hundred companies are in bankruptcy proceedings, which is about 200,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This movement and elimination of customs, if it passes in the National Assembly, and it is likely to pass, because they forcefully push all their laws, not selecting funds, or even giving them a quorum, and someone not entering the Assembly, just to pass it. Count that because of this customs treat, not only will we finance Eulex, as a people and as a state, because this is the difference that will go to Eulex, but another 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be in a situation that may not have a job since March. So 300,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia can count on them to lose their jobs thanks to the DS victory. Where there will be Serbia's borders, no one knows it alive. Operation Eulex - failure. Operation EU - total failure. Let me remind you that this high-minded thinking of Boris Tadic was going - in 2000 Russia and China were being animated as states. It has been said that instead of leading us towards America, towards Europe, according to the rich world, the government is leading Serbia to the east, towards abandoned, primitive-free states, such as Russia and China. A few days ago, the main news - Russia is our main foreign trade partner. Let me remind you that a few months ago Mr Tadic said - 60% of our foreign traffic is to the EU and 5% towards Russia. If you see him on any of the next DS pleums, whether in Subotica, whether on Palic, whether on Zlatibor, remind him, say that in the SRS all his long-range thoughts are persistently and patiently recorded, and he has simply become one treasure of contradiction, contradiction, where a man changes his attitude for 15 minutes. So that I don't take too much time -- citizens, all the crowbars in your hands and keep your jobs -- that's what Boris Tadic said in Subotica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11345	Mr. Jojic has a word, please. Your task force has 27 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President of the National Assembly, it would be better for the Serbian Parliament to discuss citizens' standards these days, the employment of workers, the opening of factories, what can bring a better life for our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout history, the division of power into legislative, judicial and executive history has long been known in Serbia. What should be taken into account in the future is to do everything possible to avoid the application of the laws adopted in practice on the judiciary, i.e. on the election of judges, on the election of prosecutors, on the High Council of the judiciary, on the State Council of Prosecutors and on the territorial organisation of courts in Serbia. There's been a lot of talk these days about it. In this assembly are people who have legal and legal experience, and people who have both expertise and knowledge and experience, and know that these laws will never be able to bring good to our citizens. It is unclear who dared to come to the EU's meeting as quickly as possible to adopt as many laws as possible in the current year. It doesn't matter how many laws are passed, you can pass 5,000 laws, but it does matter if Serbia has good laws. Over 200 years, Serbia has built a judicial system and reached a solid level and it can be compared with other European countries of continental law when it comes to organisations and the work of judicial authorities, but not in general. Legal assumptions existed. However, subjective weaknesses and justice policies will lead to a begging stick. What is most tragic, there is Dr Batic, former justice minister, respected and professional lawyer, and other lawyers are there to freely confirm what I am about to say, that the National Assembly has passed the law and thus applies retroactiveness, especially in the election of judges and prosecutors. It's contrary to the Constitution. The continuity of the court office was secured by the 1990 Constitution and there is continuity. Discontinuity was gone, neither was there. What did the National Assembly do? She's now passing laws with retroactive force. We will have judges with different mandates, judges with a mandate to be elected by the National Assembly for three years and judges who will be elected by the High Council of Justice with the mandate. There's no justice here. If one competent state authority doesn't choose a judge, there's no justice. What's the matter now? It's lustration and where? The first lustration will be carried out in the judiciary. Who guarantees that 2,200-2,300 judges will all be re-elected? That doesn't guarantee this set of justice laws. That goes for the prosecutors, too. What's very dangerous is that the prosecution will be the executive body of the executive authority. The government is the political party or coalition in power, regardless of which party it was, it will, by its standards, propose and elect public prosecutors and their deputies by its criteria and choices. It's very dangerous, although they've passed those laws. I note, I am deeply convinced that the "vacacio legis" will be applied here, which means we will delay its application, and we will delay it for a year now, and when we see that we do not have the conditions, neither material, nor technical, nor qualifications, nor professional. Then we will be in a situation, as we are now, before next year we must seek a second solution, and you have seen that we have many laws that cannot be applied, and at present it is in the choice of judges to choose which provision the law will apply, especially when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's a big problem. When it comes to the choice of judges and prosecutors, you see what's going on. A law has been passed in which the High Council of the judiciary will not be elected in the procedure and procedures in the manner in which judges are elected. They have the privilege of choosing themselves, and when they choose themselves, then they will listen to the promoter, we will see who it will be, and he will propose his candidates, so the political party will bring to the Justice Minister or to the High Council a list with a memorandum of political parties and say - we have a proposal for these judges, they should pass. They should not pass and should not be chosen next, so the list of people who may have done their duty with honor and integrity will be responsible. When political parties influence the judiciary, it's a very dangerous thing. We're pushing the judiciary into a political arena, into the arena of political parties in power. When it comes to prosecutors, it's the same case. There's no choice and procedure for the State's Major Prosecutors, just like it is for the deputies and prosecutors. There's a problem. There's a problem that politics interferes with the judiciary. When it comes to the prosecution, whether the prosecution is independent or whether it's on its own. Well said Dr Batic, recently - excuse me, please, they are not white bears to be protected in the judiciary. That's right. There is no one on the head in Serbia in the judiciary of the crown and that he is the heir to the crown. No, I don't. Therefore, political parties that are in power are only disrupting and are doing a poor service in achieving basic civil and political rights in this country. It can't even be an independent prosecutor's office. There's got to be someone who's going to both the D.A.'s office and the courts to have some insight into their work. Now, if you get it literally, the prosecutor and the judge will say, "Please, what are you asking me for the results of my work?" What are you getting mixed up in that decision I made? Is she good or isn't she? Have I been confirmed, suspended, or altered? Don't ask me. I'm on my own. Where's that? In Lord's upper house, England, there's no such thing. Neither the English king nor the queen can ever determine who he will be and what kind of decision he should make. It's possible with us. It's all suspicious. Whenever you step away from the Constitution, everything is suspicious and risky. In our case, he tends to stand down and walk away from the Constitution. That's problematic. The constitution is a law that no one can break. Take court decisions and you will see when it comes to the persecution of political insinuators, take only from 2003, in the action of "Sabbe", when 12,500 people are arrested, take court decisions, implement, go before Milos, before this parliament, let anyone and any statements -- yes, it was the "Sabbe" action that was meant to introduce democracy into our country. No, that was the greatest evil. It was a great danger of endangering basic human freedoms and rights. Ladies and gentlemen, in our justice system, what else is there? You know that well. Nepotism is in the judiciary. We have such cases that the entire family in one court or in one judicial authority, in one city, is ruled by the government, including those of some friends and "skilled" lawyers. When this "GG" company is created, there is not one company that can work more successfully. The woman is a second-degree judge and the president of a council, the husband of a lawyer, the daughter of a prosecutor or a lawyer, the son of a judge or a lawyer, what do we have to talk about some justice in Serbia, so it will be impartial? No way. What do you say when we have people like that, a lawyer writes today's lawsuit and surrenders, he knows exactly what judge in a row he's supposed to get that case. He says, "When does this judge come in?" Today. I'm handing over the lawsuit. Go to the judge. The judge's taking the suit today, first the reviewer leads the suit to the register in litigation, then delivers it to the judge. On that same day, the judge schedules a search, performs evidence, hearers, delivers a verdict, and declares the verdict a judicial one. What country does he have that in? I have such a verdict, ladies and gentlemen. In the judiciary, honest people have to stay and they have to work. The way the current power with judges and prosecutors should now be dealt with is upside down. Why? First, we need to get the corrupt people out of the judiciary. I'm telling you that every judicial authority knows one another who is prone to certain irregularities and violations of the law. They know each other. The best choice of judges, though it should be taken into account, with the president of the courts in particular, to launch an initiative by a secret vote, but by a secret vote from a judicial authority to elect the president of the court. Then go to more instance. Mr. Batic has faced this problem many times. You can't get politics, first of all, out of the judiciary. Therefore, when we talk about justice, the judiciary is one pillar of the state, because you can have bad police, you can have bad education or other institutions and resistors, but if you have a bad judiciary and if a judge or any of the Constitution gets away, there is a risky and very dangerous thing under fundamental human rights and their freedom. Secondly, you will now see that there will be such cases, those who have been suspended in 40 and 50% of the cases, will now pass. Why? Because they may be members of a political party. They will be chosen. When it comes to the election of the President of the Courts, the choice of President of the Courts by me should be done for four years, because people get tired, they get tired as judge presidents. That's why we have to change them every four years and choose them. That's why it's time for the election of the new president of the courts now. We put new blood in the judiciary and have them handle the judicial authorities. It will not happen that in Belgrade, courts work between 7.30 and 15.00 hours, and that they work part-time somewhere, that means they work whenever they want. They work from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. and when a citizen comes to exercise some right, he can't. I've seen it many times. There are lawyers who have been and are in court every day and see what the situation is like. In Belgrade, you can confirm a statement by half four. In another town, you can only have one. Says the referent, bureaucrat -- no, we've worked up to one, we don't take parties anymore. It can't be like that. There's got to be order and there can be order. The most responsible for the state of justice is the President of the Court. When it comes to judges, he's the most responsible. He needs to know what his office is doing to him, both litigious, outsider and criminal. He needs to know what his garter's doing to him. He needs to know when he's got a case in court. He must know which judge the proceedings were taken and when, when he received the case, when he completed the case, when he concluded the debate or the search, when he made the verdict. In practice I had, I believe Mr Batić will confirm that after a year or two, I said last time in Pogorevec I found that three years later the verdict was written. You can't do that, gentlemen. In the judiciary, these people who work honestly and honestly, but everything that's not thought to be up-to-date, it's not professional in the judiciary, so let these people choose another profession. Most in the judiciary are honest and honest people. We have to give them support. We have to fight to keep them in the judiciary, to be elected and to stay. There's no need to talk about reelection. Pure re-election. Although I am speaking again, the Constitution guarantees that there is no re-election. There's no discontinuity. This law introduces it. That's what's dangerous and the SRS has solutions to it. There are solutions to improve the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. The SRS will support any judicial officer who makes fair and fair, impartially and independently judicial decisions, behind whom he stands and who does not embarrass himself, and who will not harm the citizens. You've got a case like this, if there's a lawsuit for damages or payment under the Bond Relations Act, someone's due someone now, say, 500 thousand dinars, they started a lawsuit ten years ago, and he figured he wasn't under the obligation to settle it. Ten years later, the debate is closed and the verdict is passed after a year. Now you see the situation of this citizen who has to pay both the principal and the interest, who sometimes goes ten times the principal. Who's to blame? Justice. Secondly, when it comes to disciplinary responsibility, it must be like an institute with us. I was saying, in Germany it is mandatory to apply it and there is a disciplinary procedure of the judge, especially for the unprofessional exercise of certain judicial functions. You can't let the judge not work, break the laws and stay there. That disciplinary responsibility goes hand in hand even to the holder of judicial functions. He must count on him waiting on the curve, the president of the court, who has to initiate the procedure, or another competent authority, to be resolved if he breaks the law, if he unprofessionally performs affairs, if he untimely makes decisions, which is why the citizens suffer damage. Now let's get to another important fact. Here's a question, it's not a minister of justice, I'm going to ask a question and ask for an answer, if you'll allow me, Madam President. How many countries did Serbia pay back four years of damages to citizens for illegal court decisions? In four years, how much did the state of Serbia pay the citizens for suffering damage from illegal decisions by state authorities, that is, courts above all? It's a huge number. Many now wonder, so why should I be responsible for the damages if I have made the wrong decision and the wrong judgment, which I have done to a citizen. No, I'm gonna answer because I didn't take care of the procedure and make the right decision, and that citizen can't suffer any damage. It's in the countries of Anglo-Saxon law, and it's also continental. That's why radicals order judges to be fair and prosecutors, you do your job as honest and honest people, those who are corrupt, you have to suggest that they be removed, let them seek another interest, and you SRS guarantee independence and existence, and traditionally to be good judges, back in 200 years you have something to rely on, and we as Serbian radicals want us to have a good judiciary in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11347	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Žutić, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11348	Dear Members of Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. Today I got the "Bunjevaski novine" number, it's Christmas number. Otherwise, the paper's been coming out for four years. The rebels say, "Merry Christmas and the young cast." This morning, all representatives mainly of the national communities sent greetings to citizens celebrating Christmas on the Gregory calendar, however, no one sent congratulations in front of the former large community of Bunjevac and Shokac. Unfortunately, the community has none of its MPs in parliament. To remind you, during the time of the unification of 1918, there were over 80,000 Bunjevats in Banat, Bačka and Baranja. On November 25th 1918, they plebiscitarianly supported the merger of Banat, Baka and Baranja with Serbia at the Grand Assembly of Serbs, Bunjevac and other Slaven. So, besides the Serbs, only the rebels were mentioned as a significant national group. In the first assembly of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, in the Interim National Representation, they had four MPs, Roman Catholic priest Blaško Rajic, Marin Matic, priest Ivan Ivetović and Stipan Vojnić-Tunic. The Bunjevac-Shakačka Party, when it was founded in 1919, won 13 parliamentary seats with the Croatian People's Party in the Constitutional elections. However, communist violence in 1945 prohibited the mention of the rebel name because the rebels had to be called simply Croats. However, Milosevic's regime in 1991 allowed the name of the rebels to be mentioned, so they began to identify themselves as Bunjevci instead of Croatian. In recent years, the rebels have gained the status of the national community and have gained more free national action. Today there are about 20,000, others still bear the Croatian national name. I ask, in the end, of the Minister for the Protection of National Minorities - is the national survival of the Bunjevacs in Serbia sufficiently protected? Is the state financially helping national and cultural development of the rebel minority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-24-0.u11349	Thank you. Since no word has been reported on the list of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a unique search. After we have conducted the search, the National Assembly will decide on the motions for decisions in the voting day. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE DECISION OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA Dear MPs, you have received proposals from the MEPs for European Serbia, No 02-297/08, No. 02-3582/2008 and No. 02-3582/2008 of 19 December 2008, Serbian Radical Party, No. 02-3190/08 of 27 November 2008, G17 plus, No. 02-3202/08 of 28 November 2008, Liberal Democratic Party, No. 02-3573/08 of 18 December 2008 and No. 02-3574/08 of 18 December 2008. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure, the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, as well as for this time to be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of parliamentary groups. Are there any interested parties involved in this debate? No, there isn't. ) pursuant to Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a unique search that is obviously missing. I'm concluding a unique search of the proposals I've made. After we've finished working on this point, in the voting day, we'll decide on the proposals and these decisions. Let all citizens who celebrate Christmas on the Gregorian calendar, on your behalf and on their behalf, congratulate the holiday, wish to celebrate it with their favorites with joy and to inform you that we are at a meeting of the heads of Parliament and I have agreed that tomorrow we will not work for it. We'll continue our work Friday at 10:00 p.m. Thank you for your cooperation.
