ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 190 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Balint Pastor, Bojana Aleksic, Donka Banovic, Radovan Radovanovic, Laslo Varga and Riza Halimi. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Friday, February 29, 2008, meaning, within a short period of time, as set out in Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as well as of the day and time laid down in Article 85(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to adopt the proposal to approve the detention of Dragan Lazic, the district public prosecutor in Zrenjanin, as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, which was convened at the request of 127 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an emergency session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision approving the detention of Dragan Lazic, the district attorney in Zrenjanin, who has been submitted by the Administrative Board We are moving to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE APPROVAL OF THE DETERMINATION OF DRAGAN LAZIC, THE District Public Prosecutor IN ZRENJANINA You have received a proposal for a decision approving the detention of Dragan Lazic, the district attorney in Zrenjanin, who has submitted the Administrative Board. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Before I give my word to Mr. Dragan Todorovic, the chairman of the Administrative Committee, according to Business, MP Ivan Andric appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15424	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. In 225 and 226, the People's Messenger has the right to be informed and to seek information and explanations. In any normal country, it would be unthinkable for the state prosecutor to refuse to investigate a public invitation to violence, as well as to encourage and justify robbery, arson and murder and inciting the lynch and announcement of liquidation. In Serbia, for the D.A., Slobodan Radovanovic, these are not crimes, but politics in the way of Minister Velimir Ilic. Slobodan Radovanovic, such a selective interpretation and law enforcement, only continues to do what he did in the Special Prosecutor's Office, where he did everything to cover up the political background of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's murder and protect the character and the work of Vojislav Kostunica. A few things to remind everyone present. He was the first to prosecute and drive prosecutor Jovan Prijic, who was the special prosecutor and chief prosecutor in the trial for the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Then, in a mounted process without legal basis, he drove prosecutor Radovanovic to prison, in which this experienced prosecutor died. He then organised prosecutor Vitorovic's shift. He did everything to stop and annul the investigation into long-standing Miskovic's involvement in cigarette smuggling, by carrying out the "Network" action in which he did not process only Miroslav Miskovic and the company "Delta". He assisted Vojislav Kostunica's cabinet in their attempts to deal politically with political insolents and the case, without any legal cause, detained former prosecutor Radet Terzic. The senselessness of this criminal case best shows a desperate search for Serbia's court that today would agree to prosecute the falsely accused Terzic. In the end, it turned out to be a competent court in Smederev. I'll remind you that former prosecutor Terzic was arrested in front of cameras and handcuffs. It was all broadcast by RTS in prime time. Prosecutor Radovanovic is only one of the entire number of characters, whose only and right function is to, using his position, at all costs, despite the profession, justice and morality, protect and defend all illegal, corruption and criminal activities of the cabinet of Vojislav Kostunica, his character and his work, and the misdeeds of his medals and proteges. For this reason, we are asking Minister of Justice Dusan Petrovic – has the work of the Republic Public Prosecutor Slobodan Radovanovic been reviewed so far? We call on him to use his membership in the High Council of Justice and to launch a debate on Slobodan Radovanovic's work so far and to apply for his shift. On our behalf, the LDP parliamentary group will do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15425	Thank you. Does the Chairman of the Administrative Board want a word? Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regardless of Article 167, which says the National Assembly at an extraordinary session is working in advance on the agenda, we cannot agree to this agenda. This request by 127 MPs, which is fully legitimate and which implies the Rules of Procedure that at least one third of Members may request a meeting of the Assembly, is perfectly fine. They could and should have submitted this request. The request was to read: The proposal for a decision to approve the detention of Dragan Lazic, the district attorney in Zrenjanin, and to put an end to it. How could you even place a decimal and say "who submitted the Administrative Board"? This was filed on 28th. 02. In 2008, the offices. The Management Board held a session on 29:00 p.m., at which it decided to refer to the Assembly a decision on the possibility of detaining a public prosecutor, Mr Lazic. This can't be called a coincidence. This is already becoming a pattern. You assume that something is going to happen and then you're already writing a solution for automation. Just because you assumed that the Administrative Board would ambush, that it would make a decision, it's not a matter of dispute. That must happen, and among other things, to remind you, your president of the Belgrade City Assembly, he went even further in those assumptions. He schedules a session to elect the president of the assembly as the first item, so since he assumes he will be elected, because you have agreed, he already writes and suggests the rest of the agenda. He doesn't realize at all that the procedure has to be followed, that there have to be two sessions. Mr. President, you have violated the Rules of Procedure. The moment you received this request, you were to contact the MPs or those who submitted this request on behalf of these Members and specify exactly how the agenda could have been read. Otherwise, the assembly session today is completely pointless. How can you possibly accept such a formulated agenda? There's going to be another call, it's going to be a while, so he's going to laugh at you. I mean, Mr. President, correct this while you can, re-form, consult the services, I'm sure the services are professional. The problem is you're not listening. Please consult and rephrase the agenda, because it is obvious that you will in this way violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so when you recast the agenda, then we can discuss the proposal for this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15427	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word of the People's Messenger is Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really have nothing to add to what Mr. Todorovic has already said, and I refer to Article 226. A Rules of Procedure which says, "The National MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues from the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP." It is very important that we get an answer, whether the Serbian Ministry of Interior can protect the MPs in case they say something that is not liked by Minister Ilic Master Velimir. Ilic, master Velimir, said in his inspired statement that people who say Kosovo is not in Serbia cannot expect protection from the MUP. I ask the question – is Ilic Master Velimir familiar with the fact that Article 46. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees freedom of opinion and expression, as well as freedom of speech, writing, painting or other means of seeking, receiving and expanding information and ideas? "Freedom of expression can be restricted by law, if necessary in order to protect the rights and reputation of others, safeguard the authority and impartiality of the court and protect public health, the morals of a democratic society... "This health thing, especially mental, has nothing to do with it. With morality, it has nothing to do with it. That's why I'm looking for an explanation, can the MPs at all do their duty, or are we all the hostages of Ilic master of Velimir and his ideas of seducing democracy by a brief procedure? I will remind you that Ilic Master Velimir was one of the prominent people who tried to remove totalitarianism from this country. We all thought it was about change, not just changing places. That's why I don't want to talk about it anymore. I expect from Mr. President of the National Assembly an explanation and I will contribute the rest of the discussion in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15429	Thank you, Mr. Canak. Your parliamentary question will be forwarded to the minister you referred to. I suggest we move on with our work. Since none of the heads of parliament are answering, the word is MP Vladan Batic, who is the only one registered for the discussion on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15430	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs... (President: here you go, Mr. Batic. I'm waiting for you to finish talking, so let me get started. So, because of such expert discussions we are here where we are, I mean Serbia. Also, I mean something procedural first. This is not the kind of decision that can stand – detention is approved. It can only – the removal of immunity is granted. Is what the prosecutor proposes, which is detention, going to be determined by the competent court, on that afterwards. Of course, I usually welcome the fight against crime of all kinds, and I especially welcome the fight against crime of those most responsible to protect the state and society against crime, and these are the holders of judicial functions, especially prosecutors. What surprises me is the role of the performer of the Republic Prosecutor's office. Crimes in Serbia are booming everywhere, especially flowers, unfortunately within the ruling coalition and its tycoons. The prosecutor is not responding, so I am interested in whether Mr. Radovanovic is a private, or party prosecutor of one piece, first of all, ruling coalition, and I mean so-called. "The People's Coalition." It is now clear why prosecutor Radovanovic was a participant in the December 2005 National Coalition Convention ahead of parliamentary elections. Now you get those pictures of his warm encounters back in one embassy, smiles, banging on the shoulders of the leading tycoon in this country. So why not process members of the ruling coalition from the government itself and why these criminal charges are not rejected. I filed several criminal charges, an illustration for the sake of, against Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, against RTS director Aleksandr Tijanic, with plenty of material evidence. I submitted them at a time when Slobodan Radovanovic was a special prosecutor for organised crime, when he was in charge of handling those criminal charges. Until today, they haven't seen the light of day. I'm asking them to at least throw them away, so I can take over the chase. Of these criminal charges, two and a half years have passed, there are no answers to questions, nor are they handled in terms of processing, nor are they rejected. Mr Radovanovic is selectively handling proceedings against members of the so-called "Students". "Duvanic Mafia." Some of them have not been processed to this day. The largest tycoon, the master of Serbia, instead of sitting on the defendant's bench, remains a prominent businessman. One of the members of the tobacco mafia began to appear, came out of the mouse hole and in some TV shows of fun character stories of the event from his childhood and youth, because Prosecutor Radovanovic remains silent. I personally asked Mr. Radovanovic to start with the dead end of the Topcider case. I got a promise that after an artificial in the FBI lab, it would be done in a short time. Nothing, not even the Cypriot money, not the HVB Bank, not the National Savings Bank, not a dozen other things. A new practice was introduced at the time of Prosecutor Radovanovic. Arresting people in front of cameras and handcuffs. I don't mind if anyone gets arrested, anyone being prosecuted, but arresting people, fighting over their fate, branding them in the most embarrassing way, that's abuse of function! At least Prosecutor Radovanovic can tell the police that it must not be done. So, if he's guilty, let him answer, but no one has to be disturbed by dignity, his family puts on a pillar of shame. We have a lot of examples for that. He's mentioned here, Rade Terzic. And what was it? The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. So, the other day, we have a loud announcement by Prosecutor Radovanovic that he will initiate proceedings and prosecute Thaci, Sejdiu, etc. "Later Marko comes to Kosovo." You, Prosecutor, do those things that you can do here at the top of the ruling coalition, among the leading tycoons in Serbia, and do not play the judiciary! Unfortunately, it's a weak vision. That reminds me of that farce from the trial of Blair, Clinton, Goruitd. There's no way out of it. Finally, we heard Prosecutor Radovanovic will be prosecuted, criminally or criminally, all those who participated in these riots on February 21st. Looks like no one's been processed yet. But some questions should also be asked by Minister Dusan Petrovic. How long will it take every day from CZ to get reports, messages, books, memoirs? There's more cell phones in CZ than there are in cell phones. It's happening in CZ. More mobile phones than in Takovska, where the main post office is. Minister Dusan Petrovic went to Moscow to sign a protocol on co-operation with the Russian justice ministry -- at the time, Russia made a decision on granting asylum to Mark Milosevic and Mirjana Markovic, and Dusan Petrovic signed the protocol. Yesterday he signed a request for extradition, so no ink was dried, the Russians responded - none of it. These Russians who save us so much and praise us, and celebrate the death of Serbia's first democratic prime minister, Zoran Djindjic. Then, instead of asking for an apology from Moscow and asking our ambassador to step down for consultations, the government is silent because Russia is allegedly going to save Kosovo. The way she saved him, we all see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15431	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15432	I would like to take this opportunity to rephrase the draft agenda on behalf of the signatories of the motion to convene this extraordinary session, so that the agenda point would be – a proposal to approve the detention of Dragan Lazic, the district attorney in Zrenjanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15433	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here Mr Batic stated that the Administrative Board had no right to propose a decision that reads – it is approved to determine the detention of Dragan Lazic, the district attorney in Zrenjanin in criminal proceedings K44/08 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed the crime of taking bribes from Article 367. Criminal Code of Conduct of Prosecution. I don't know why Vladan Batic said this. Maybe it's because taking bribes isn't a crime anymore. I have to tell you that we haven't been informed yet, it's still in force in the law of taking bribes a crime, that's the first thing. The other thing, Mr. Batic, you should sometimes participate in professional debates, no matter what you underestimate them, you'd find out some things, first of all, about the competences of the Administrative Board. This is a Article 73 that I do not count positions, says – the Administrative Board is considering the requirements for the authorisation of detention of the judge and the public prosecutor and submits a report to the National Assembly with a proposal for a decision. Also, you still have the applicable Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, which is valid until 31 December 2008, under the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, Article 35 says – in the procedure initiated for the criminal offence committed in the performance of the duty cannot be detained without the approval of the National Assembly of the Public Prosecutors, the Deputy and these are things that are completely clear. I must introduce you, Mr Batic, and the other MPs and the public of Serbia, when this request has arrived and when it is requested to call upon the Administrative Board and that, practically, by the decision of the Administrative Committee, because it is by the new Constitution that it is automatically ordered to be held in custody of the Public Prosecutor, I have refused and requested that this procedure be implemented in accordance with the Law, which means, the session of the Administrative Committee, the adoption of the report, the sending of a decision to the National Assembly, and only when the National Assembly makes that decision, can it be implemented in action. As far as these remarks are concerned, I fully agree with you that there are enormous abuses in all areas of society. It's amazing how this country still survives, but I have to tell you that you introduced those new values after October 5th, as regards prisons and free circulations regarding those who enter, who amount, lead to family meetings, etc. It seems to me, Mr. Batic, that you have forgotten a magnificent piece that then allowed the press articles not to arrive from prison, but books. Remember Blanca. He wrote a book on the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic and delivery. Therefore, it is obvious that your broad Dosov family has problems in functioning. I advise you, I don't want you to think I'm trendy, look at it to settle between yourselves, don't fight in front of the public, let's keep it all in the house. You may come back to power again, not this year, not next, who knows when, you'll divide something from the prey, or maybe you don't think there'll be anything after these.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15435	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Mr. Batic, you have no right to a replica. You have the right to report. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15436	It's amazing who gives himself the right to talk about the system of values, the ones that completely destroyed the normal system of values in this country. As for the opportunities in law enforcement facilities, I am proud of the time when I had the chance to be a minister of justice, when there were also abuses, when there were also mistakes, but when there was no collective self-infliction in Central Prison, there were no suicides, there were no escapes. Blocking systems were installed, no cell phones, no books and no memoirs, no top criminals informing the public what they would do and give lessons to peaceful and normal citizens. That's what this is about. Mr. Todorovic is right that the governor of Central Prison then wrote a book, but he failed to say that, knowing it, I immediately replaced him because such things cannot be done. Even prison managers can't do that, let alone the biggest criminals in this country. So, every more visible criminal in Central Prison right now has a couple of cell phones, and that's not Mr. Petrovic's sin, that's his predecessor's sin, that's what he got in his inheritance, that kind of system of disturbed values, if it's already about the system of disturbed values.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15437	Here you go, Mr. Todorovic, but please, really, let's bring this discussion to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15438	I don't think memory should be selective, but citizens should be informed of the full facts. It is true that Mr Batic replaced Mr Blanuša, but it is true that he brought him to the Ministry and that his right hand was there. As for the new values you have introduced, Mr Batic, you have shown this in a transparent way to Serbia. When they stole your car, it seems to me that they didn't find Dushan's code for you, but a hekler. As for the value at the time when the SRS was in coalition power, don't touch him, he doesn't understand anything. As far as these values are concerned, Mr. Batic, these are civilization values for all honest and honorable people. We fought crime as much as we could and how much influence we had. We fought to keep our country from the criminals who bombed us in 1999, which we condemned, and you have annulled all these verdicts, and today one part of you wants to sue those countries that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija. We do not give up those values, nor will we give up at any time. You discuss your values with your former and current coalition partner, agree, tax them, and see how many votes you get in the next election. On the last one you participated in, Mr. Batic, there was a greater number of those who counted in a statistical error than your party got, and that is the best court of values to bring the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15439	Here you go. Please, one of you will have to give in, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15440	The ultimate grudge is reportedly, at least I heard it, which is in one of my cars, and it's not mine but police, at the time a gun was stolen or I don't know what it is, and of course it's not my car, it's not my car, it's not my gun, it's not my gun, it's not my gun, it's the same day that was found, but it's Mr. Todorovic, when we're talking about weapons and parallel system values, that gun, it's the helicopter in front of the students, it's someone else. I didn't threaten with rusty knives and spoons. I threatened with someone else. I didn't do many things, not to go back to history, but to someone else. I wasn't shutting down the independent media, I was taking away the roto-machines, computers, furniture, someone else's. No, it's no good to talk about a system of abnormal values for a long time, because then we have to keep going back into the past, and for some of the past, it's not a lot of light.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15441	Here you go, Mr. Todorovic, let's hear it from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Batic, I have no doubt the hekler wasn't yours, but I assume he was from Mother Jevrosima Street, that weapon that was abducted on October 5th. I don't have a list here now of how many rifles, how many automatic guns, how many bombs, and where is that weapon today? Mr. Milic is laughing. They found a piece of it, I think, in the Red Star SD. Interesting. How is it possible for that weapon to be found there? As for these values you have introduced, to return to them, Mr. Batic, at the time you were Minister of Justice, 12 thousand people were arrested and millions of damages were paid by this country for breaking the law and politically persecuting your insinuating people. If you think these are the values you stand for in us, you'll never have a conversation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-29-0.u15443	I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. Since we have conducted a single search on the motion for a decision, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 29 February 2008 as the day for voting on the draft decision. We'll approach the vote immediately, at 3:59 p.m. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to approve the detention of Dragan Lazic, the district attorney in Zrenjanin. For 190, they did not vote 22 of the 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Dragan Lazic, the district attorney in Zrenjanin. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008.
