ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I announce the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 85 (don't count on this time): "Sessions of the National Assembly at which legislation proposals, development plans, spatial plans, budgets, final accounts, Rules of Procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions, conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts adopted by the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in time from 10.00 to 1800 hours with an end of one hour. The National Assembly shall decide on draft laws, development plans, spatial plans, budgets, final accounts, Rules of Procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions, conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts adopted by the National Assembly, in principle, details and in general in voting days. The President of the National Assembly shall set the voting days following the conclusion of the debate on all points of the agenda. Exceptionally, the President of the National Assembly may decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, that is, that the National Assembly extends the work even after 1800 hours, if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the president declares to the MPs. The President may extend the work of the National Assembly after 1800 hours and only until the debate is completed in principle, in particular, on the starting point of the agenda. The president is obliged to inform the National Assembly no later than 4:00 a.m. on the extension of the session after 6:00 p.m. the day of the session proposed by the extension of work." Erem, this is Article 85, which, Madam President, should guide you and take care of how this assembly works. What has been evident since this assembly was formed, unfortunately, the ruling majority is absolutely unable to find answers to all the problems, or at least to the most important problems facing the state and facing the citizens of our country. First of all, it took you a lot of time to come to an agreement at all to form a coalition, because your appetites are great, because this distribution of prey, which the government predicts, was the most important thing for you. The most important thing for you is anyone who gets any ministry, who gets what public enterprise, and the state and the citizens aren't interested in you at all. You forgot all your pre-election promises the moment the elections were over, because you had no intention of keeping any promise seriously or doing anything that would solve the problems of Serbian citizens. Since there is not much time, although I will report to the Rules of Procedure later, but it is obvious that lately, because of the problems you have in the ruling coalition, not only about the gas agreement, but also about the budget, which was evident, you are unable to find a solution you are trying to find a transparent game, which everyone has already seen, and the citizens of Serbia, that you are responsible for the alleged blockade of the Assembly and are reluctant to transfer to the MPs of the opposition, as allegedly those who prevent you from working. You don't have the elemental will to really find common ground with the opposition MPs so that if there are really serious reasons, serious problems, unlike some previous periods, we can deal with problems by agreement. No, you want it in a way that's recognizable when it comes to you, and that's majorization by the harsh use of force by most. But I must tell you that you will face the only way the opposition can at this point, which is to work in the Rules of Procedure and to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia for what you are doing. Thank you and forgive the extension.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10325	Mr. Todorovic, just last night, when I scheduled work for today, I gave an explanation according to the article you quoted. So, the importance of these sessions as well as the need for us to consider in this calendar year an extremely significant act, above all the Budget Law and, of course, an extremely important item of the agenda initiated by a group of opposition MPs - trust in the Government, are indeed the reason that, by respecting the needs of citizens, the Budget Act is being passed within the regular time limit, so I have failed today's work. I must tell you that the mood of those who really worked properly and co-operated on the amendments and contributed through their participation in the discussion was highly approving on my proposal. Of course political arrangements can change that, but the truth is that yesterday, especially when I suggested that we work from 10:00 to 4:00 today, there was an entirely acceptable mood that gave me the right to expect us to work today and I invite you to work. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10326	The basis of my report is an article. 27th and 85th because you are under Rule 27th, President, under the obligation to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure and to respect the laws of this State. So, when it comes to Article 85, of all these views quoted by Mr Todorovic, I am primarily interested in this attitude 4. I will read it once again: "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly may decide that the National Assembly session is held for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work even after 1800 hours if there are justifiable reasons for it, which the president declares to the MPs." I'm sorry, Madam President, I don't think there's any valid reason to be working today, on the weekends, on Saturdays. The working days were, above all, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday; the first line of exceptions were Monday and Friday, which we agreed to, we even agreed not to give any valid reasons to work on Mondays and Fridays, believing that it was more than obvious that it was necessary for the Assembly to work on those days, we agreed that you would extend your working hours after 1800 hours of any of the working days, not even listening for any reasonable reasons to be the case. But when you cross that line, when there are no reasonable reasons to work on Saturdays, then we have to say something about it. In fact, it seems to us that there's a little bit of a mix-up here. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not have the capacity to finish almost any work. It is a matter of tectonic disorders within the government over key things, such as the conclusion of an agreement with Russia on an oil deal, such as other things, such as the inability to fulfill certain promises, the inability to face the consequences of the economic crisis. We have a situation that out of 50 laws, which should have already arrived at the Assembly to discuss by the end of the year, 15 of those laws that are necessary for the EU accession process have not arrived. When we add all of this together, we have an inactive government that is, in fact, a black hole, unlike this National Assembly, and instead of the ruling coalition showing us an agenda in which there are precise deadlines, in which there is a certain dynamic that this National Assembly would bind itself to, and on the basis of which we could sit and agree, what the otherwise rarely the opposition negotiates with power, about the dynamics of the work of the National Assembly in the interests of citizens, we don't have anything on the part of the ruling coalition, we don't have, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, when a session is under way, and above all, because of one law that is completely abnormal, it is this law on the network of courts in Serbia, against which the whole of Serbia stood up, including those who support the ruling coalition, even MPs of the ruling coalition, then suddenly invent Saturday, work at night and everything else. Guys, that's not right. I think we should agree on some priorities, and I think we should really sit down, for the first time because we haven't done that before, with a serious agenda at our meetings, see what there is to do, what deadlines, what when it expires, etc. With the IMF, an agreement was made to allow the draft budget to be sufficient for the implementation of the agreement as of 15 December. There are no deadlines and don't scare the citizens of Serbia. (President: Time. I'm done. The DSS will do nothing in this parliament, I believe, and other MPs of the opposition, that any citizen of Serbia is deprived of any expected right arising from the work of this parliament, neither when it comes to passports, nor when it comes to exorcising other rights. It will never happen because we care about their interests. The problem is, they need to find out that the government's not happy about you not caring about their interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10327	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has the advantage again, as head of the parliamentary group, as agreed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal again to article 85, and I must tell you, Madam President, that you continue to do what Mr Aligrudic and I both pointed out in the first report. You (here, I'm looking for some mild expression for what you're saying) you're really trying not to tell the public the truth. You say it's extremely important that you said it yesterday, that the budget should be passed, that this set of laws be passed, etc., and I ask you - did you act as a position in accordance with the law, when it comes to the budget? Let me remind you -- do you know when you received the budget, when MPs received the draft budget? Do you know when we were supposed to get it? Do you know when the government adopted the budget? Do you know how much trouble it was to adopt the budget within the ruling majority? Do you know how much you spent on newspaper paper because everyone used influence in one of the papers to inform their partners in the government that they would not accept the adoption of the budget until their ministries got as much money as they predicted or needed? And now you're giving us what you've actually led to. Your incompetence, your quarrel, your greed within the government, is now being transferred to the opposition and, for God's sake, we won't be able to adopt the budget. When did you find out? Have you seen how many strangers have budgets? I think it's about 900, it doesn't matter. How do you think this budget is really considered if it can't be looked at in a way that would imply that we can discuss it as responsible people? And you're transferring us now -- we're going to have to adopt it by the end of the year because we're going to go to temporary funding, etc. Well, that doesn't concern you at all. I don't mean you MPs, you're dealing with a problem that's created by those of you who are in the government and you have to swallow everything that's going on. You've created a problem and you want to transfer that problem to the opposition, but it's really not going to work out for you. Please, use your arguments, serve the truth, do not deceive the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10329	Thank you. Mrs. Nada Kolundžija, then Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10330	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we do not want to hide that there are problems in this country and that the Government, facing the problems that exist, also has problems. That's not at all controversial. I don't think that's something anyone should be looking forward to. I think that, whether we're the government or the opposition, we should be happy that the government is successfully solving problems in this country and that it should be, in any case, something that we want to do and what we want to contribute to. I agree that we should do as much as possible, the deal and the agenda of what some of the next steps are, and we're ready to do it. Of course, in a situation where it is possible to plan and in which it is possible to predict how long something is going to last and what are the next steps that, when the previous step is finished, we will be able to take. I absolutely disagree that at any point it was any self-will of the majority and the establishment of some kind of torture over the minority. I can responsibly claim that there is an irresponsible minority here who tortures most of them. To show that I'm not speaking in my mind, I want to present some very specific data. Since the beginning of the constitution of this SRS assembly, 1,272 times have appeared in the Rules of Procedure. If it's not obstruction, then I don't know what obstruction is. The alleged violations of the SRS Rules of Procedure spoke for 67 hours, referring to the Rules of Procedure. It's 10 business days. I'm only saying this with regard to the SRS. When I talk about deliberate obstruction and trying to prevent the work of this Parliament, I am not talking about any parliamentary group except the SRS, because the data is talking. So, no matter what the impression is,... Gentlemen, I ask you to listen to Mrs. Kolundji. Please don't disturb the speaker. )......................................................................................................... The facts prove this is about obstruction. There's only a question of what's causing the obstruction, and we'll answer that question soon enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10331	Mr. Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10332	Madam President, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, from the previous presentation of Mrs Kolundji, head of the DS Parliament Club... (President: Gentlemen of the Messengers, please let us listen to the speakers. Since it's over 50 hands up, let's hear the representatives of all the parliamentary groups, so I'll probably take a break. That way we won't be able to work. ) Dear President, I call on members 225, 226 and 85. From the previous presentation of Mrs. Kolundji, head of the DS Parliament Club, Serbian citizens can understand why this session is scheduled today, why we work Saturday. I'm personally denied one right, that the amendment, you already know which, about the disabled, I can't realize instead of those who are paid for it, because today I've been losing all day. For today, I've scheduled meetings with several disabled associations. Why is the ruling coalition doing this? Because it was clear in the debate last week that the opposition wants to work constructively and, when the ruling coalition and citizens in discussions of MPs and the NS and other opposition parties understand who is right, then comes out with such provocative statements and tries to impute the opposition to obstruct the Assembly. Just to remind you, what the citizens didn't see, and they should have seen, in the direct transmission of the session of the Energy Committee and the Privatisation Committee, where the two ministers were -- these were not two ministers from the two parties of the ruling coalition. Dear citizens, it was two ministers from two countries, from two different countries, that was the impression. That's one reason why I'm asking you, Vice President. Another reason is because one member of the ruling coalition, the SVM, said that for one of the laws my predecessors spoke of here, which came across the general condemnation of both citizens and the professional public, and the European expert legal public, would not give a quorum - what does it say? Does the ruling coalition even have a majority? Is she at this point trying, with such provocative statements, to hide that fact? Go to the citizens and tell them if the government of the Republic of Serbia has fallen apart. And what if one night or tomorrow, by some accident, he arrests Ratko Mladic? We won't work again for two months. Right, Mrs. Kolundjia? And that will be the opposition's fault. We've been waiting all summer to work, you haven't scheduled a session. You should not have put the Kosovo and Metohija resolution on the agenda. You have violated all laws, both human and moral, and legal. And you did not put on the agenda, at the request of 108 MPs, to discuss Kosovo and Metohija. It wasn't the opposition, it was you, as the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10333	Mr. Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10334	If we start here a debate that has the basis of the Rules of Procedure and we start to discuss in a normal and open way whether there are reasonable reasons to do this or not, the least I expect from the head of the ZES parliamentary group is to mention some terror of minorities over most. This is not possible in political theory or in political practice. I've never heard of such a thing in my life. The opposition has a right everywhere in the world, and that's what citizens and you all know very well, to legitimate obstruction. Legal obstruction is applied every time those who represent citizens on this side feel that the interests of those citizens who voted for them, including other citizens, are threatened by the way they work. This puts the work of the National Assembly at risk. Why? This congregation has not worked 45 days not on our fault, but on your fault. This assembly doesn't get a budget on time, not on our fault, but on your fault. Where are the following laws for the Serbian budget? Where are they right now? Here, with us. ) Do we see laws that need to be implemented directly by the Republic of Serbia in a package of measures that we should consider? We can't see. Where are the answers to the parliamentary questions asked to the Treasury so that we can consider, on that basis, the budget of the Republic of Serbia properly and submit amendments to that budget? Are you aware, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, how little the Law has been passed by the Assembly thanks to you because you have not submitted the draft laws? How many amendments have been accepted? Enough. Why is that? Because these laws were not valid, the government saw the need for amendments to be accepted. How many amendments were accepted by the opposition? Maximum number. What's he saying? It says that the symbiosis of antagonism that exists between the government and the opposition is beneficial to society. You can't run from it. As for the rest of Mrs. Hope Kolundji's statement, I must say that I, Mrs. Kolundjia, agree with you. That's what we've been talking about here for two months, that we need an agreement on how to work. Regardless of the efforts made by the National Assembly president, which I must admit, meetings are being held and talking to us, I have a feeling that in those political instances that actually decide to reach an agreement, which is some hard core of DS, first of all, obviously that interest did not exist. You never went out with what you were talking about here today. If you had come out with a clear agenda, that the government of the Republic of Serbia had come out with a bunch of laws that it had threatened so far, that the Serbian Parliament, as it was at the time of Kostunica's first government, had been overwhelmed by the government's legal proposals... (Employees, from the place: Whoa! )......................................................................................................... and 'whoa' to you because you have not submitted anything to the National Assembly, that you do nothing. Here you go, gentlemen. You're doing something, so we can work with you. It's the only way he can do it. If you don't want to discuss this at your consultations, as you didn't want to, please, let's talk here. We've got till 4:00 p.m., so maybe we can work something out.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10335	Mr. Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10336	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 98, item 2: "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion." I urge the President of the National Assembly to take a break and consult with the heads of Parliament on how to work today at this session of the Assembly. The National Assembly has lost many days working this way. There is a danger that today the congregation will turn into a tribune. For these reasons, I ask that consultations be carried out, given that Saturday is not a regular working day, but that the position of Article 4, Article 85. The Rules of Procedure allow the President of the National Assembly to schedule a session for that day, of course, with an explanation. The president of the National Assembly has scheduled a session for Saturday, for today, to give an explanation that, of course, our colleagues from the SRS and the DSS today advertise that it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is also legitimate. But if today's session is going to turn into a debate in the Rules of Procedure, then please don't hold a session today, because we're just gonna spend another day on it. I'm closing up. I'm calling for article 98, and I'm asking the President of the Assembly to interrupt the session, take a break, conduct consultations, see if we're going to work today, not to spend the day like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10337	Mr. Todorovic has a word. I would just like to remind you that all following budget laws are already in your parliamentary groups, and they were delivered to you as they arrived, and as you know, the budget was delivered six days ago to every MP. As for the consultation, Mr. Petronievich, of course we had consultations yesterday on this subject as well. We're going to have consultations today, but simply, we understand each other pretty well... Mr. Todorovic is asking for a word. It's possible they'll allow us to work today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Slavica, don't give me that much meaning. I'm only one member of the opposition party here. As far as I could see, all the opposition parties are in the same position, that today's session of the Serbian Parliament is in no way scheduled for those reasons that you state. But first of all, I answered for Mrs. Kolundji. Mrs. Kolundjia, you're using the truth. Whatever the truth, it can be painful at first, but eventually it will lead to results. If you use lies, false things, then there's no result. And that, unfortunately, seems to have become a manners for you. First of all, Mrs. Kolundjia, I'm not running away from you bringing out every piece of information that is related to the work of this assembly, but I think that, correctness works, if you've already wanted to present some information, then you should have done it for the entire opposition, for every party, and not just for the SRS. I know your intentions. Look, we're all in the same position here, I guess, but you're giving information to the SRS because your goal is to pass it on to the citizens of Serbia. That's not correct. It takes data for everyone when you're explaining something, so that every citizen might be able to define or get a complete picture based on that data. That's one thing. Another thing, Mrs. Kolundjia, I'll remind you of the Budgetary System Act, on the budget calendar. That's what you answer to the citizens of Serbia. Not how many times the SRS went out for a pay phone in the Rules of Procedure, but why isn't the government on November 1st... Be careful, the Budgetary System Act, the budget calendar says – on November 1st, the government adopts the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia and delivers it, together with the Memorandum of Budgets and Financial Plans of Obliged Social Insurance Organisations, the National Assembly. On December 15th, the National Assembly brings the Republic’s budget. When did you adopt the budget? You adopted him on December 7th. And you accuse the opposition of obstructing! How can you not be ashamed? What did you do with those jobs you were supposed to do? What... ? [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10339	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10340	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 101st and 103rd. Rules of Procedure. Of course I was saying the full fact and of course I only mentioned the SRS, because all the other parliamentary groups together didn't have as much as you did. That's why I singled out the SRS. So there are 250 MPs here, not just 50 and some MPs of the SRS. If it's about who's doing the torture, then it's quite clear that one minority of the 50 MPs is tortured over another 200 MPs. It's just a fact. As for the agenda and the delay with some things, we don't argue. We're not convinced with you that we're not late for something that's obvious to be late. Of course there are objective reasons for that. These were the elections, the time of the government's constitution, the rebalancing that the government adopted in October, and that's why we came to the timetable we're in today. But another question arises – if there is a delay, does that mean that you want to stop everything? Do you want to punish those who are late, so you will punish all citizens of Serbia by not doing the job, because that is the result? If you're afraid this government is fragile, the trust session is already scheduled. Let's finish this session, check out this government. After all, the elections are, indeed, always a solution to the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10341	Mr. Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10342	Mrs. Kolundjia, please have one thing in mind. If you had forwarded the Republic of Serbia's budget to the Assembly in time, it would have been over, and the IMF arrangement would have been completed on December 1st. But it wasn't done. It doesn't, believe me, and everyone knows it, nothing to do with anyone in the opposition, no matter what political party it is. It's as simple as beans, right? We could talk about everything, I repeat once again, that it's a clear agenda, that you've already scheduled a budget session. And you couldn't schedule it because they didn't make it in time to follow the laws without which the whole job couldn't be done. So, regardless of us, regardless of the length of the debate on individual laws and the number of amendments made, this budget agenda would not be faster, because we from the opposition are not jumping through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are not obstructing the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor are we reporting there according to the Rules of Procedure or amendments, but I believe that you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing some work, independent of us. And that job that you're doing independent of us, it's late amazing. And now you're telling us -- come on, no deal at all (because it wasn't there, and it's not exactly because you're not giving us any facts), that we're doing Saturdays, let's work at night, etc. Here, I'll tell you now. No problem, we were working, as you know, and on Saturdays once, it was done at night, but then it was negotiated with the opposition in a very clear way, with certain arguments and with a terrible pressure of legislative proposals coming from the government and certain concrete deadlines that were highlighted for specific things, and those who sat in opposition couldn't possibly allow their burden to be held accountable for such a thing. Yes, under certain pressures it was, but these are the pressures of the arguments, not the pressures of the majority and the forces. No problem. If there's any pressure on the arguments, we'll do the same. So, what else are we gonna do? We can't say that we won't appreciate the state's interest, the citizens' interest, so we won't work Saturday nights and we won't work till twelve o'clock. We'll work. I'm telling you, we'll work if it's necessary, but let it be necessary. Don't mess with us. Not you personally, don't find yourself offended, first of all I'm talking about those who organize the job, and now, unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Serbia, is what it is. Give us some arguments. Don't go like this. After all, since obviously the elections are getting closer, for some reason that you know, and we'll certainly be talking about it in the next few days, then you're trying quickly, when the break is already going on this side complete, to move, in such a quick way, responsibility to the opposition for what's wrong with you and what's rotten with you. Look, to do that, someone else needs to believe that. Now, that's your only problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10343	Mr Aligrudić, it is true that before this assembly of parliament, it was done on Saturdays and Sundays and at nights. It is true that the budget was late last year, with a delay it arrived in parliament (I repeat what you said), but it is also true that it was the will of the opposition to allow it to work, which is why I cannot accept any suggestions, which are not the most official, to interrupt this session and to go to the budget law, because this agenda is extremely significant. Here, among other things, there is the Law on Travel Documents, a set of judicial laws, so we should also declare this. I think the citizens really expect us, when we are gathered here in this number today, and the number shows the responsibility of the MPs, that only more content of our work or agenda today, as you would like to say, is in line with the expectations of the citizens. Mrs. Kolundžija, then Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10344	I'm referring to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 101st and 103rd. (the MPs are obliged to stick to the agenda) and I just want to say that the argument that something didn't arrive, so we came here, and we don't have a job just doesn't stand. So we here have a job that's very important, which also has deadlines and it's very important that we finish it. We also have the next session, which is scheduled at the request of the opposition, which is a matter of trust with the government. We also consider this a very important session and we believe that it should be reached as soon as possible. Of course, what is waiting for us is the budget, and all of us following acts that go with the budget, and we also know that it is important that the interest of Serbian citizens is to be adopted by the end of the year. We can talk to the opposition about whether something on that agenda is important to the opposition. But I don't think we can talk about what's important based on what this government and this parliamentary majority have identified as the country's strategic priorities. We can't compromise on that, we can just say -- okay, we want to hear what issues are important to the opposition, what are the topics the opposition thinks is important to put on the agenda and to agree on. But the opposition can't tell us - it doesn't matter to us. That's what the radicals said. They claim it doesn't matter, that some of these laws that are on the agenda don't matter. So we cannot accept such a relationship, because then it is not a relationship between respect and understanding the position of each and every one of us in this Parliament. Then it's a blackmail ratio, and it can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10345	Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundjia, I have invited you in some way to speak the truth. With truth, we can solve problems, and in this way we can't solve problems. You've been trying to transfer your responsibility to the opposition all along, especially the SRS. But let's go back not to this exposure, but to the one before. Your argument is that the budget didn't arrive on time: 'it was May elections'. Why didn't you tell the citizens of Serbia? Why didn't you tell us? You know, there were May elections, and we won't be able to get the budget in time for the election -- that's what you should have told us right away. These are things that must be important to the opposition, and the argument, and we would know -- you're incompetent, you can't bring it in on time, and that's how we'd behave. Then what did you accept to be power, to make a coalition? When did you find out the election was in May? When did you learn that in November you had to bring in the budget, that the government had to adopt the budget? Aman, do you operate on elemental facts? You're giving yourself the right here to say that the budget couldn't have been passed in time because it was the May elections. This is just amazing. What do you think you took to fly a plane up and up, about ten thousand feet away, found out you didn't know that? Well, this is really embarrassing. And then you're still accusing the opposition, and those of you who were in the previous government (more or less, there's been little changes). And now you're looking for an excuse and you're turning the blame on the opposition, especially the SRS, and you're talking about blackmail. It doesn't matter to you, and it matters to us, because we protect the citizens of Serbia. Well, you're proposing laws by emergency procedure that will only apply since 2010. Who the hell are you kidding? What does that look like? All the time, you've been trying to trick the citizens of Serbia with lies and lies. That's your problem. Come out with the truth, with the essence, not the fraud. What did your Prime Minister say? – I established a team that will take care of every moment of all facts about the global economic crisis, headed by the finance minister, the governor of the National Bank Radovan Jelasic and other experts. On the same day, journalists ask Radovan Jelasic – did the team meet... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... What were you arguing about? Have you reached any conclusions? And he says - I have no idea that the team is formed, nor that I'm on the team. Now, that's you. And now tell me who's telling the truth here and who's telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10347	Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10348	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, of course, I'm reporting for the article again. 101st and 103rd. I just want to say that the way citizens see who does what shows the last elections, in which the citizens say they judge your work, among other things, in this House. So I don't need to further convince citizens, you're trying hard enough, but what's true, is that we don't transfer our own part of responsibility to any of the things that are late, come later than deadlines. So it's not about that, and don't twist the facts. That's not what I said at all. I did not say that anyone was responsible for the fact that a project was legally later arrived in the congregation. I'm talking about the fact that in 60 and a few days' work, you reported 1.272 times in the Rules of Procedure, that you spent 67 hours, which is more than ten working days. And in doing that, we're going to do an analysis of how many pointless topics you've stuck to in your reports on the Rules of Procedure, how much these subjects are really interested in the citizens, so you'll see what it's really about. So we do not call you to what is of course not your responsibility, but we have the right to say - your responsibility is to obstruct and try not only to obstruct, but to destroy an institution such as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that in that sense we have the responsibility to prevent you from doing so. Perhaps the most important thing is to tell the citizens – what do you want, what is it that you seek?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10349	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just Mr. Aligrudić, after that we'll have... I'm interrupting now, and I'm calling on the heads of Parliament to make a deal. At 11:30, we'll continue our work. [[After break – 11.35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I expected you to at least inform the MPs about the talks we've had. Are you ashamed or what's the problem? I guess MPs need to know the result of these conversations we've had, and you're going over it, and there's obviously some reason. I'm not going to tell him now, I think you should do it and tell him what the result of our conversations we've had. That's one thing. Another thing, let me show you, Mrs. Kolundjia, is your way of understanding and running politics. Staffs who prepare you for everything you need to do, believing that it will be the easiest way to achieve the goal, use you, perhaps consciously or unconsciously. You went out with a minute for the SRS and I asked you to, correctly, do that for all the parliamentary groups, or all the political parties, but you didn't even finish at the pay phone, the news already started that information. And today, probably tomorrow, they're going to bomb the public about how the SRS is obstructing. Well, if we will, we can't stop it. In your hands is everything, and the media, and the government, and the money, and you use it in a way that is many times and against the law. Here I was giving you information about packages that you share during the election campaign, on the day of the election, in pre-election silence, showing you accounts where DS appears as a consumer of food products, hundreds of tons, of riders riding Serbia, sharing people's packages, misusing the social situation in which they are located, to deceive them once more and to allow you another month in power. You can see that your governments are taking longer and shorter. Will there be us? I understand your concern for us, and you've shown it in the best possible way that you've invested a huge amount of money to try to execute a coup in the SRS. (President: Time. I'm finishing up, but I'll get back to you. (President: You won't get the word. ) Therefore, you can tell lies as much as you want, and we will only try to reach the citizens with the truth and work in the Rules of Procedure, not in the way that suits you and what is in your interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10352	Mr. Todorovic gave me one suggestion. I thought the heads of Parliament had informed you about the result of the attempt at agreement (we are very quick to inform). One word at a time was enough, whether we agreed or not, and each of us told his MPs. Please, we had an argument that by the end of this year at least two days, which would otherwise be working, we wouldn't be working. It's St. Nicholas and Catholic Christmas. That's where we totally agreed. We agreed on the importance and our obligation to finish this session, to discuss the government's trust, the set of financial laws relating to the budget and the budget, that we should do it all this year, and we were estimating what time means. There was a suggestion that Monday, if necessary, work nights and Saturdays, etc., but we didn't agree on everything. It is estimated from one that it is not right to work on today, and from others, who were in the majority, that we still need to work today. Of course, you all know and the citizens know that this can turn back into a session of the Rules of Procedure. Essentially, it is an abuse because, we have heard, Saturday is not officially the day when the Assembly normally works. But we're familiar with article 85 that says the president has the right to make an appointment, if he explains it, and I've done it on several occasions -- why this session is scheduled today. It would be good if we agreed to continue our work immediately. But I hope that in a relatively decent time we will still create conditions to do, convinced that we are expected by citizens, convinced that the largest number of MPs had a much easier position to be in their families and elsewhere, and yet they came here. So, respecting, above all, the citizens, ourselves, the dignity of this home, once again, I invite you to, while we are already in this issue, we are working. Mr. Velija Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10353	Madam President, honourable MPs, we started this morning, and we came to work, but you see for yourself, it's not working. You of the ruling coalition must be very clear and concrete, you must agree, you must know what you want. Don't expect the opposition to settle your ranks. Yesterday we had two committees, I also had a third board, a Committee on Traffic and Connections, since I was a member of the Privatisation Committee, and we are completely confused. Because when the two ministers came, I expected there to be a boxing match. When the debate began, we don't know who, who the government is, who the opposition is, whose interests it protects, and the situation is completely clear. They came to explain something to us, and they were fighting so much... Mr. Skundric is on the line of what we have agreed in this House and it stands. However, Mr Dinkic explains something that violates the law that we have brought here. People in the government can't understand what the law is. When the Assembly adopts the law, it must be respected, there is no further comment. Now we need to weigh on whether or not someone will comply with the law that the Assembly has passed. So, please help us, tell us what you want. You're unclear to us, we don't know what you want. Here, you brought us a 900-page budget the other day and you expect us to work day and night now to get it through. That budget is a disaster, people! Do you believe in NIP you have an item 12.5 billion, where it says -- the government will decide what to do afterwards? Are you out of your mind? Should we pass the law and give you 12.5 billion to do whatever you want with them? It's nowhere in the world. And then you say there's going to be an amendment. You know how much? A thousand to this budget you've brought. Look, the country's infrastructure is 16 billion, of which 10 billion are rail subsidies for wages, and six billion for the whole country. And for Fiat, you're investing 14 billion! What do you think? Who are you giving 14 billion to? Where's your study? How do you give it? Are you out of your mind, people? You gave Dinkic 44 billion. One minister, one ministry - 44 billion, and six billion for the entire infrastructure of one state (talking - corridors, highways). Three billion of them have been transferred from debt this year. What do you do with it? What black roads, corridor, what are we talking about here? So, sit down, see what you want, think about the budget a little bit, get rid of it. What do you think? In NIP 12.5 billion is undefined, there is no item where it is spent. Please, what does that look like? (President: Time. We should be here one who will pass some law and where there will be so much luft in that law. Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, today is Saturday, tomorrow Sunday, sit down all day and discuss what you want. We're the opposition. Of course, we hunt your mistakes. And a lot, brother, you're wrong, and that's why there's a lot of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. (President: Time. If you were making less mistakes, we'd be having less discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-13-0.u10354	Thank you. Mr. Ilic, this has just been the content for the budget session, which we are in a hurry to do. It's completely justified, it's just not temporary, it's supposed to be in the budget session. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if we're to be honest. Mr. Buha has given the amendment to Article 1. Please, let's get down to business... I just want to see how much you're doing in the Rules of Procedure. [[elevator in the O.R.]] You know what, this session doesn't make any sense if 60 of you are going to speak in the Rules of Procedure. We'll continue our work Monday at 10:00, but I'd like to ask you to start working on the agenda Monday at 10:00 p.m.
